for the gue/ngl group mr president, a year ago this european parliament voted a resolution against police violence in the european union. today, all over europe, we see demonstrators being beaten and raped by police, and i am thinking in particular of the citizens of greece, belgium, romania, poland, france and many others. despite the condemnations of the un, ngos, amnesty international, the european court of human rights and the human rights defender, i would like to remind you of an image we have seen this week: a young girl being raped and pushed by the police or fired at close range by defensive ball-throwers (lbd). our group in the gue and the french delegation therefore call for a debate and a resolution on the ban on lbds, de-encircling grenades and ventral plating, which are banned in some countries. the use of force, i would remind you, must be proportionate and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, as we are going to be discussing texts on fundamental freedoms this week, i would remind you that the right to protest is a fundamental freedom which the european union must guarantee.
madam president, can you hear that cry even 17,000 kilometres from australia? can we hear the pain of the families of the human victims and the suffering of the victims who have lost absolutely everything? do we hear the cries of a billion charred animals? it is a deafening cry, a shocking sos that sounds like a global alarm, and this is how we should hear the australian tragedy which, despite itself, demonstrates that we are right to build a european green pact. as you know, 300 000 european citizens live two hours from sydney, new caledonia: they are and we are therefore the first neighbours and first witnesses of the disaster. today, in europe, we must mobilize in the name of solidarity, of course, but the reality is that we need a duty of collective intelligence and political mobilization. as we have just declared a climate emergency, how can we fail to understand that if we do not accelerate our fight against climate change, the disaster in australia will be our planetary drama tomorrow. how can we not understand that we must fight climate-skeptics everywhere in the world, including here, because the consequences of ecological tragedies know no borders: from australia to chile, a toxic cloud has just crossed the world's largest ocean, an ocean rich in biodiversity. i would like to recall that 80% of europe's biodiversity comes from overseas: it is with this legitimacy that i reaffirm the need for concrete actions to protect the environment and future generations and it is with this optimism that i declare that the european green deal must be based on overseas, which are territories of solutions.
madam president, the dramatic fires ravaging australia have already caused the death of 28 people, the destruction of an area of forest equivalent to ireland and the agonizing death of more than one billion animals. it will take 250 years for the forest to recover to its original state and the losses in terms of biodiversity and co2 capture are irreversible. while the influence of climate change is undeniable, it should be remembered that the free trade you advocate is one of the main causes. in addition, 183 arsonists were arrested in australia, some of them linked to islamic fundamentalism, with daesh inciting forest fires in its propaganda. in australia, as in europe, these criminal arsonists must be punished in an exemplary manner. european firefighters and experts were sent to australia, but too late. let us help australia and fight future disasters by strengthening resceu and its firefighting capabilities in europe, but also by organising an interstate force that can be deployed to fight major fires outside the union.
madam president, we are talking about the largest fire ever recorded: 28 deaths, 80 000 square kilometres in flames, millions of displaced people, over 1 billion animals dead. and some even think that there is no climate change! the ecological disaster in australia should be a collective warning to us, foreshadowing the ones we will face. but let's be clear, it's not bad luck or the combination of circumstances that are to blame: it's the climate skeptics who continue to support the lucrative and polluting coal industry, those who prefer growth to the environment, those who organize the shortage by monetizing water, our common good. yes, ladies and gentlemen, while australia is suffocating, while the country is burning, its government is selling water to the vultures of the pension funds. this statement, ladies and gentlemen, does not hide the arrangements of the commission and yours. when it comes to establishing international free trade agreements that promote an anti-ecological model, when you vote on the ecological emergency on monday and open the doors to the polluting lobbies on tuesday, please stop your double talk about the ecological emergency. the liberal system you idolize is the source of the current and future climate catastrophes and your blind belief in the market will never save you.
madam president, 2020 was supposed to be the year of biodiversity, but the fires in australia remind us of the urgency of action. over a billion animals have perished in the fires, some of which are classified as endangered species. while images of koalas or kangaroos in distress have shocked the world, they are only the visible and media-driven part of a global phenomenon, for which man is largely responsible: the unprecedented erosion of our planet's biodiversity. to ignore this fatal trajectory is suicidal. food, oxygen, energy, medicine, raw materials, climate regulation, the services that our planet provides us are simply vital. yet, we are powerless to preserve it. how many of the aichi goals have been achieved? how many of the european commitments have been fulfilled? let's wake up and turn this around. the european commission and the member states need to commit themselves more firmly to the next 2030 biodiversity strategy. let us be leaders in this area now so that cop 15 can be a real success, leading to binding, measurable and enforceable goals. it's not too late, but let's do it.
"blue card" is the answer. i would like to make this point, mr president, when we are talking about trade policy. it makes no sense to make sure that we are going to be climate neutral in europe, in our own market, and at the same time let in products from all over the world that emit enormous amounts of carbon and do not have the same levels of ambition as the levels we impose on our own industry. that is why i think that trade policy really needs to be used to make climate policy work, and that we need to make sure that we are climate neutral while also being able to protect our own industry.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the amazon, it is now australia that is burning. 10 billion hectares of land were destroyed by the flames, 28 people lost their lives and over 1 billion animals died. while scientists have established an undeniable link between climate and these unprecedented mega-fires, scott morrison's conservative government continues to downplay the threat of global warming. he should be acting like a fireman, he's acting like an arsonist. because coal accounts for 70% of the country's exports, it continues to defend these fossil fuel industries that cause climate change. our production and consumption patterns, by not respecting the rights of nature, endanger the natural commons and life on the planet. to persist in the path of denial and inaction is criminal. it is time to stop the catastrophe: let's really punish environmental crimes. it is time to revise our economic treaty, our economic rules, our free trade agreements, to think about a post-growth economy based on respect for planetary boundaries. the planet is burning, let's not wait for the last fire to burn and the last tree to die before we finally act.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a subject of interest to all european citizens, and, commissioner, you have presented a situation which worries me. the fact that we have 5,000 criminal groups, that they have increased by 50% compared to 2013, i wonder what solution we have, because europol - you have also informed us now - shows that corruption has also increased, so economic crime, prostitution, drugs, arms trafficking and, finally, loss of human lives, because not only society but also the economy is affected. we simply have shootings in the streets, shootouts in stores, bar evacuations, coffee shops. we have to find solutions and, in addition to the fact that you have presented here that you are going to make an analysis and a situation, i think we have to have proposals. and yes, i do not agree to personalize the case of sweden or denmark, we have an interest in the internal market, for all member states, to have the correct and rapid transmission of information, to disrupt these networks that affect people's lives.
i thank the commissioner for his contribution. i miss the presidency of the council, which is a shame. europe is based on economic cooperation and freedom. we see that freedom being abused very often, and that includes organized crime. 50plus is a party that strongly supports european cooperation. europe must do good for the citizens of europe, but we are currently suffering a great deal from organized crime. the money that is being made is so great that the police in the member states are no longer able to combat this phenomenon adequately. i therefore call on the institutions to ensure that the next convention will make criminal law and the fight against organised crime european competences. at the moment, when subsidiarity is at issue, it is clear that the member states are no longer able to cope with it and that there is too much abuse of the freedom we have in europe. this has to stop. make sure that there is no more money to be made in organized crime by all sorts of clever ideas. i hope that the institutions will come up with these ideas and with policies to curb organized crime.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first let me thank you and the honourable members for this very important debate highlighting the enormous challenge we are facing as europeans in the face of organised crime and violence, and for reminding all of us how important these topics are for our citizens and how dramatic the situation is becoming. many of you mentioned very concretely the situation in malmö in sweden, in denmark, and indeed we have seen across the nordic countries but i would say more generally across europe, the fact that organised crime is on the rise, that drug supply trafficking has increased, and that we see also these very high numbers of organised crime groups which of course then lead to the increased use of violence. you cited the figures for sweden and i agree with you that they are staggering. i can assure you that on behalf of the commission we will be ready to explore all avenues, all possibilities, for how we in the commission, but especially our specialised agencies like europol and eurojust, can be of help to sweden and other nordic countries or any country of the european union which is in need of assistance. several of you asked what we can do, how we can help, and in my introductory remarks i already reiterated some of the measures we would like to propose. but i think the most important one is to close legal loopholes, to make sure that we do not apply the law differently, that our police officials cooperate more sincerely, more cordially, that we would simply close the borders for criminals and keep them open for our law-abiding citizens. so therefore i really would like to thank mr tobé, ms fritzon and also ms auken for their support and also for the call to explore every possibility for how we can increase the capabilities of europol and how to motivate our member states and our police forces for even closer cross-border cooperation. i can assure you that this is one of the top priorities for this commission, and we will see how this will be reflected in the commission work programme which i hope we will be coming to present to you before the end of the month. some of you – ms schaldemose, ms fajon – also referred to the temporary reintroduction of border controls by denmark, and here i would just underline that member states are entitled to temporarily reintroduce border controls at their internal borders if confronted with threats to internal security and public policy. indeed in the last prolongation of border controls at internal borders denmark specifically referred to the threats related to the cross-border criminality originating from sweden. i would just like to inform you that the commission is analysing its notification, its proportionality and necessity, because we know how schengen is important for our citizens, how it represents the core and also the symbol of european integration. therefore, we need to explore all the possibilities – how to prevent the causes which led to this temporary introduction of border controls. to conclude, i really would like to agree with all of you who said that this is indeed a european problem which needs a european solution, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that all of us, all actors, work together in this fight, and here again i would underline how the commission counts on your continued support in this fight against organised crime.
in writing. free movement is one of the foundations of citizenship in the european union, whose core values - the rule of law, democracy, protection of fundamental rights, freedom of competition - are threatened by organised crime, which is increasingly taking on transnational dimensions. in recent years, many member states have experienced an increase in violent incidents and in tax fraud and money laundering offences linked to organised crime; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal traffic in drugs. criminal groups operating at transnational level exploit the differences in legislation between national systems, which in fact restrict judicial, investigative and intelligence cooperation between member states. a common eu strategy to combat organised crime, adapted to the new reality of criminal groups, is therefore indispensable, through modern and effective legislation, based first and foremost on a unified notion of organised crime, which goes beyond the limits of framework decision 2008/841/jha, and includes provision for investigative tools up to date with the latest technologies, effective asset recovery and stable cooperation with third countries. only by overcoming the legal vacuums can we protect rights without giving up the idea of a united europe.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the statistics of bombings and shootings in sweden last year have led to the introduction of permanent border controls at one of the most open borders. the threat of illegal immigration and terrorism has necessitated these counter-terrorism measures by denmark. at this point, the schengen free travel area is facing the big test, after both countries closed their borders in november and austria and germany extended their temporary internal border checks for another six months, the first with hungary and slovenia and the second with austria. six countries have closed their borders. we have seen how many schengen countries have not dealt with the problems of migration and security at their borders and have been forced to introduce checks at their borders. in this respect, bulgaria is an example of protecting the eu's toughest external land border the one with turkey, where there is zero migration pressure, and is not yet a schengen member, although it has met all the technical criteria. i call for a swift solution to tackle organised crime at european level so that european citizens can continue to enjoy the benefits of free travel within schengen. thank you, thank you!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, this will be a little bit lighter, but it is also a very important topic for our citizens and i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain what the commission is doing on the common charger. but, first, i would like to underline that the commission has strongly supported the harmonisation of chargers for mobile phones and similar devices. the common charger campaign was an initiative triggered by the commission back in 2009 and i have to underline that, thanks to the commission’s efforts, the industry implemented a voluntary approach. the work has only gained in importance since that moment and, in the light of the urgent transition to the circular economy, a sustainable product policy is a priority initiative in the european green deal, which has just been adopted by this commission. to give you a little bit of the background, i would just like us to remind ourselves that, in 2009, we had more than 30 charging solutions. currently, we have only three main possibilities. the voluntary approach has therefore been very effective in reducing market fragmentation, enhancing consumer convenience and reducing the environmental impact without resorting to regulation. it should also be noted that electronic waste is still one of the fastest growing waste streams, which makes this type of waste prevention particularly important. the voluntary agreement came to an end in 2014. since then, the commission has made every effort to promote renewed voluntary commitment. however, the last mile has not yet been accomplished. since 2014 – the same year the voluntary agreement was discontinued – the industry introduced two new technologies for chargers onto the market: usb c and wireless. fast charging capabilities have been implemented in many models too and, in this context of technological changes, we felt that the voluntary approach, actively supported by the european commission, was the best way of achieving our policy objectives without hampering innovation. in discussions with the industry, we continuously insist on the need to agree on a solution which would fulfil the following objectives satisfactorily: convenience for consumers, the safety and interoperability of chargers, and the reduction of electronic waste. regretfully, the memorandum of understanding of march 2018 fell short of our expectations. the industry proposed continuing to allow for a proprietary solution instead of implementing one common charger possibility. therefore, consumer convenience and the reduction of e—waste was not enhanced. in addition, the scope was limited to smartphones only, failing to capture other portable devices. against the global backdrop of ever—increasing material use and resource extraction responsible for half of the total co2 emissions and environmental pressures, we consider this a missed opportunity. therefore, the commission has explored other possible options with a study to be published in the next few days. one of the options is the adoption of the delegated act under the radio equipment directive. at first glance, regulating the common charging interface on its own would, however, not necessarily be an optimal solution. this would mainly consist in the elimination of proprietary connectors, representing around 20% of the market with limited benefits for consumers. for this option to achieve significant reduction in material use, e—waste and greenhouse gas emissions, it would have to be complemented by additional measures, for instance to mandate and/or incentivise the sale of mobile phones without the charger. therefore, we will look at a combination of policy options, including regulatory and non-regulatory measures, in order to achieve our objectives. the study also assesses whether it is possible to extend the scope beyond smartphones and thus enhance benefits to both the consumer and the environment, taking into account technical issues such as different power needs. in addition, innovation and interoperability are key elements of any solution. therefore, any better-performing new charging solution would be welcome as long as it is a common charging solution. along the same lines, interoperability of wireless technology for charging would have to be ensured, even if this is still an incipient technology. consumers should definitely be given a central role, in particular if manufacturers are only allowed to sell mobile phones without the charger, which seems to be a promising option from the environmental point of view. this would entail large consumer awareness campaigns and consumers should benefit from any reduction in costs being passed on through lower prices for standalone devices. in the european green deal we have committed to support and accelerate the eu’s industry transition to a sustainable model of inclusive growth. we have committed ourselves to mobilise industry for a clean and circular economy, including for a sustainable products policy and durable design of products, also giving priority to reducing and re—using materials before recycling them. the commission is therefore committed to present the next steps to make common chargers a reality for all eu citizens, and we will keep you closely informed.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that, yes, many of us have been advocating for more than ten years for a solution to this very simple problem. the number of cables and chargers produced and thrown away each year is simply unacceptable. we still need four different cables for smartphones, digital cameras, e-book readers and tablets. europeans change their smartphones on average every two years, so every second year our citizens are forced to buy new chargers when buying new devices, even if all the chargers still function. demand grows and with it waste and exploitation of natural resources. we are drowning in an ocean of electronic waste. around 50 million tonnes of e-waste is generated globally per year with an average of more than 6 kilograms per person. in europe, it is even 16 kilograms per person, and we cannot continue this way. commissioner, i agree that the voluntary agreement is not enough. we expect three concrete actions to be undertaken. firstly, the commission has to show leadership and stop letting tech giants dictate standards. if digital sovereignty really means something to this new commission, we expect a proposal to establish a standard of a common charger – wireless or not – within the next six months. secondly, having the possibility to use the same common charger for multiple devices, the consumer should not be forced to pay additional charges when buying new devices. thirdly, the commission should propose quality standards for treating e-waste and help member states to reach e-waste collection targets. commissioner, this charger is very small, but the issue is big and very important for the environment and for european citizens.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. commissioner, i praised you in the last speech, but i will not do so this time. it is simply too bad that the european commission has not succeeded in ensuring that we get the problem of a harmonised european charger that can be used for all telephones solved. we've been talking about this for years. so now it's time to get it over with. fix it up. now get it fixed as soon as possible. if this little problem is taking so long, how are we supposed to make sure that we actually get our circular economy to work? we have to solve this for the sake of the consumers and for the sake of the environment. i know that you have tried to do this by means of voluntary schemes, but frankly, voluntary schemes in this area do not work. i think it is time that you took the spoon in the other hand and made sure that you came up with a binding legislative proposal that would ensure that we get this problem solved and that we get a common charger for all mobile phones.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at our hearing with the commission in november, we denounced the lack of concrete progress on a common loader. while we were calling for swift action, the commission took refuge behind impact studies that should have been published by now. since then, it's been radio silence. why is that? the study in question has been completed since october and was even presented to a group of experts in december, but it remains inaccessible to this day. for ten years the commission has been relying on the goodwill of industry, with no results whatsoever, and the lobbies have been rubbing their hands together. that's enough! it is unacceptable to european citizens that a measure which would help to combat waste, pollution and planned obsolescence should be blocked in this way. that's enough! we ask the commission to present an appropriate delegated act as soon as possible or to re-launch the legislative procedure. while we boast of a green europe, it is time to deliver on the simple promise made ten years ago, that of a universal charger.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the universal charger for phones and tablets has been in the pipes of brussels for ten years. for the citizens watching, the fact that we are having a debate tonight is incomprehensible. the brussels commission was supposed to have settled the matter. i have here with me your staff statement from 2009: 'the commission welcomes the industry's commitment to provide a universal charger for mobile phones'. finally, a little too hasty of a compliment. indeed, if i want to charge my phone with other brands of cables, it is still not possible. the commission often interferes with our tables, with our speed limits or with our pension systems, but in cases where it could be useful it is useless or even inactive. sorry, but we can't keep getting pressured by apple, which spends over two million euros on lobbying a year. in 2010, you could have imposed the nokia, which was by far the world's leading mobile phone manufacturer. instead, you allowed microsoft to buy and close those companies. give this file to greta thunberg or any of our 16 million unemployed, it might go faster.
in writing. the european commission has been working on the issue of a universal charger for mobile devices for more than a decade now. it is certainly welcome that the commission's approach of voluntary industry agreements has reduced the number of charger models from 30 to 3 since 2009. but you can't stop halfway. every year, 51,000 tons of chargers end up in landfills or in the wild. and don't we all have a drawer full of different chargers at home that are neither used nor recycled? the commission must now take action to extend the principle to all small and medium-sized electronic devices (tablets, e-readers, cameras, cameras, etc.), without hindering innovation and the emergence of the chargers of tomorrow. in addition, the commission will have a real impact on e-waste by ensuring that chargers are sold separately from their appliances, to allow consumers to continue to use their old chargers. we are calling on the european commission to take concrete measures in this direction in the coming months.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for including the gender pay gap on today’s agenda. i am aware that this is an important matter for the european parliament, as reflected in its resolutions calling for legal actions that tackle gender-based pay discrimination. we are on exactly the same page on this. pay discrimination has gone on for too long. the principle of equal pay has been in the treaty since 1957, but women are still being paid an average of 16% less than men in europe. it is high time for further action. president von der leyen has entrusted me with the task to develop a new european gender equality strategy to address areas in which women still face additional barriers. i will give equality in the world of work its due attention by putting forward proposals for pay transparency. the commission envisages presenting a new gender equality strategy in the first week of march. the aim is to have a strong ambitious and overarching approach, with specific measures to close the gender pay gap. equal pay will be a key principle of the new strategy, and the commission will act as regards measures on pay transparency. we have had a non-binding recommendation for five years now, which gave member states a toolbox of measures to enforce the equal-pay principle. some member states have introduced the measures, but many have not. because there is a lack of transparency, many women do not even know that they are being underpaid. work typically done by women is systematically and structurally underpaid compared to work typically done by men, even when it is work of equal value. this is why transparency is such an important issue. i will be looking at a broad range of options when working on the scope of the pay transparency proposals, from giving employees information on pay levels to requiring companies to report on pay levels and analyse such data in audits. i am aware that introducing binding pay transparency measures is challenging. while we want to strengthen the rights of employees to get more information about pay levels, we also need to recognise that some of the possible measures may add administrative burdens for employers. it is therefore imperative to consult employers, employees and national administrations to find the right balance for such eu intervention. let’s also not forget that increasing pay transparency is only one of the steps towards addressing the gender pay gap. closing this gap requires a comprehensive approach addressing all its root causes: a lower participation of women in the labour market; a higher use of part-time and career breaks by women when compared to men; vertical and horizontal segregation on the labour market; and gender stereotypes and discrimination. another thing. women are over-represented in work of precarious nature. they are the vast majority of part-time workers and often opt for variable hours and temporary contracts. this is another factor which significantly reinforces gender gaps. in in this regard, the commission will work closely with member states to ensure that binding legal acts are properly implemented, and to assist member states in taking utmost advantage of other legal provisions. this includes the recommendation on access to social protection, the directive on part-time work, the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions, and, of course, the work-life balance directive. i intend to work closely with the european parliament throughout this process and i look forward to listening to your views today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is this sad anniversary that highlights the glaring pay gap between women and men in the european union: equal pay day, which we all know. there's nothing to celebrate. this day marks the great wage gap between women and their male colleagues. although the principle of 'equal pay for equal work or work of equal value' has always been enshrined in the eu treaties, and although the equal treatment directive explicitly prohibits direct and indirect discrimination in pay in article 4, women still earn 16% less per hour than their male counterparts in 2019 across the eu. the situation is even worse in old age, because women receive on average 40% less pension than men. mothers with children under seven are the worst off: two thirds of the pay gap is classical discrimination. women are paid less just because they're women. the pay gap is based, among other things, on persistent stereotypes about the role of women, who still do most of the housework and child-rearing. we need to rethink, to break down the existing power and thought structures if we want true equality and fair pay. i therefore ask the commission: we need more than we have had so far: real legislative action on wage transparency, sanctions for discrimination and proper compensation for those affected. we expect this from the commission as an advocate for men and women.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my fight is for equality. eliminating the pay gap also means fighting against poverty and social exclusion of women. the gender pay gap is socially and economically intolerable. social, because it is contrary to the principle of equality - as you have mentioned - and non-discrimination - enshrined in the european treaties. economically, because it is part of growth and innovation that suffers from these gaps. it is estimated that by reducing the gender pay gap by an additional two percentage points we could increase the eu's gdp by more than €40 billion a year. equality is also at the heart of the inspiration for the european pillar of social rights, which we are committed to fully implementing. the time has come to update the eu action plan on this issue by working around three axes. first, the transparency of pay information, which needs to be improved. secondly, obligations to achieve results, corrective measures and, thirdly, measures to accompany the organisation. the obligation to make wages transparent and the introduction of audit measures will provide us with precise, objective and large-scale data that will enable us to better define the contours of possible discrimination and also to measure progress. i am pleased that the commission has firmly committed itself to this transparency, which is part of the obligations resulting from the 2014 directive on extra-financial information. on the second axis, the commission, the member states and the social partners social dialogue is important will need to have more relevant measures, as a prevention of binding corrective measures. finally, let us not forget to act on the more general context of the organisation of our labour markets in terms of stereotypes, guidance, training and education. commissioner, we look forward to the new gender equality strategy and to a new form of the principle of equal work, equal pay.
madam president, a man and a woman performing the same tasks and having the same skills must be paid the same. equal pay for equal work: this simple principle must prevail and it is up to sovereign states to enforce it. the problem is that today parliament is debating the concept of the gender pay gap, i.e. the differences in pay between men and women explained by hours worked, experience or position held. in many cases, however, these differences are due to women's choices and priorities. we must defend equal pay for equal work and allow women who wish to do so to have access to the same jobs and pay as men. however, some of the concepts defended here arise from an ideology which denies the differences between men and women and from an exclusively commercial view, the ultimate example of this drift being the freezing of eggs so that women can postpone their family life in favour of their professional constraints. women also have the right not to want to be like other men.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 700 000 people sleep on the streets in europe every night. and more and more people are living in shelters but are at risk of being homeless. in the face of an increasingly expensive private rental housing stock, social housing is a solution, but then something puzzles me: how is it possible that, on the one hand, the right to housing is mentioned in the european pillar of social rights and in the charter of fundamental rights and, on the other hand, that member states that invest in social housing are sanctioned by the european commission on the pretext that they would distort competition in the sacred market? housing is not a commodity. if you agree with me, prove it and take public investment in social housing out of the 3% rule, because in order to live, in order to dream, you have to know where to sleep.
mr president, i will speak in french. housing is also an urgent public health issue. in france, the average life expectancy of people living on the streets is 30 years less than that of the rest of the population. homelessness means being more vulnerable to risky behaviour and the associated illnesses. too often, it also means being excluded from health systems and official statistics, as the recent report of the world doctors' observatory shows. how does the commission intend to better document the situations of the most vulnerable in its indicators, particularly in health situations? as you said, commissioner, the european pillar of social rights must be translated into concrete action. it is essential that no one is left out, especially when it comes to health, our most precious possession.
mr president, god laughs at men who deplore the effects of things they cherish, and i think god must often laugh at our institutions. if you want to improve the situation of the 700 000 homeless on our continent, then the european union must change its software now. first, stop encouraging the over-concentration of services, living spaces and jobs in areas where concrete is the norm and where house prices are soaring, forcing some poor workers to sleep in their cars. secondly, stop encouraging the anti-social logic of a europe geared solely to financial gain instead of strengthening the natural family or institutional solidarity of our social policies on pensions, disability or public health. and finally, stop adding to the ranks of the homeless by importing millions of illegal immigrants: 95% of migrants are considered homeless in france. with a 70% increase in the number of homeless people in europe in 10 years, it is clear that the two issues are linked. for these three major reasons, which you are the political cause, the european union is destined to remain a continent where the number of homeless people does not decrease. so before launching a vast communication plan on the subject as a guarantee and a show of force, change course immediately for the good of everyone and especially the poorest.
madam president, mr prime minister, we are in the fifth presidency dealing with this thorny issue of the future budget of the european union. let's hope this time it's the right one. the council has mandated charles michel to find a deal. however, the croatian presidency will have a fundamental role to play: that of the impetus, because there is an urgent need to move forward. the longer the decision-makers wait, the more our farmers, our researchers, our regions and our project promoters are left in doubt. the majority of programmes are not yet closed, and the funds allocated are still unknown. i ask you: on the part of the beneficiaries, how can we plan projects in such uncertainty, and on the part of parliament, how can we seriously negotiate our future actions without knowing our means? mr prime minister, we share the future because we share the challenges. the fight against climate change will not be undertaken at the level of luxembourg, the management of migration will not be exclusively greek, the defence of our continent cannot be reserved to estonia, our food sovereignty cannot be ensured by france or germany alone. and if the problem is only accounting after all, then the solution is simple: let us provide the union with new own resources.
madam president, mr prime minister, against the background of the growing popular awareness in croatia, the croatian christian democratic government is therefore taking office as part of the rotating presidency of the council of the union. mass immigration, deregulation of trade and intra-community competition, interference in the very functioning of sovereign states, diplomatic and technological weakness in the face of the leaders of globalisation, successive presidents but the same policies. despite the increasingly critical sentiment of europeans towards the european union - as the latest elections in france, italy, spain, not to mention the united kingdom recently - the supporters of a federal europe are moving headlong towards more integration, more enlargement, less freedom, less identity, less national sovereignty. the accession of croatia to the union in 2013, in the midst of an institutional crisis, had major consequences for entire sectors of the croatian economy, as well as for shipbuilding workers, a major industrial specialty of the coast that had to face the rules of allegedly free and undistorted competition. so you cannot, mr prime minister, knowingly ignore the challenges that now lie ahead of you. the programme you are presenting here is not revolutionary and i fear that it will not change anything in the daily lives of the peoples of europe. rest assured, ladies and gentlemen, that president macron will eventually bow to the commission's injunctions and the green light will be given for albania to continue the accession process, despite the migration and social factors which we are the only ones to denounce in this chamber. in six months' time, mrs merkel will be back in charge and croatia, like finland and romania before her, will be able to contemplate the inertia of a european governance adrift.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to congratulate you on this ambitious programme for your first croatian presidency. i would like to stress that it is important that agriculture and agricultural policy also remain at the heart of the programme, especially when it comes to the multiannual financial framework. we need a vibrant, sustainable rural area in europe, and to have such a space we need farmers who work in the countryside and populate the countryside. and today, farmers are often asked, but it is often forgotten that we also need income on farms, which means that the farms must also be economically viable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we also need a policy that looks more at family farms, that doesn't look so much at the big investors, but that supports those who really work outside and who really work the land with their families. i think that with your presidency, with the multiannual financial framework and with the decision on the common agricultural policy, you can shape the future here.
president. - i should like to begin by congratulating the prime minister on his country's first presidency since accession. it's going to be a big year. several people have said it, but we know that brexit is fast approaching. i think we should not forget that brexit was made possible because ordinary people did not feel supported. we must make great strides towards a sustainable, social and ambitious multiannual budget. unfortunately, the negotiations are not going very smoothly. i would therefore like to know from the croatian presidency how it intends to ensure sufficient resources to implement the social pillar, which the prime minister also mentioned in his contribution. the presidency is committed to social sustainability, because no one should be left behind. europe must strive for social progress and i wish you every success in your new role.
madam president, mr prime minister, madam president of the commission, i would first of all like to welcome the croatian presidency and in particular prime minister plenković, not only because croatia is the newest member but because prime minister plenković is one of the european politicians i know who is most committed to the european project, and i am therefore sure that this presidency will make great strides in european integration. i would also like to welcome the opening up to the balkans, and in particular the support for reforms in the balkan countries which want to join the union. one thing is certain: there will be no europe and there is no europe without the integration of the balkan countries. i would also like to welcome the priority given to cohesion and the multiannual financial framework, and i would also like to welcome the commitment made at the conference on the future of europe, because there were doubts whether the council really wanted to go ahead with this conference. with the croatian presidency, the council will clearly support the conference on the future of europe.
madam president, a strong europe in a world of challenges: it is with this in mind that croatia is proposing to take over its first rotating presidency of the european union. i wish you the best of luck on this mission. a strong europe must be a europe that can act and move forward. a developing europe is a europe capable of moving forward with an ambitious multiannual funding programme to promote convergence and cohesion and to strengthen the union's own resources. a europe that connects is a europe that can bring its citizens back to the extraordinary project of peace, freedom, solidarity and democracy that it is, by promoting the alliances necessary to strengthen it. a europe that protects is a europe that has justice and tolerance as its benchmarks and leaves no one behind in a time of disruptive transitions. an influential europe is a europe which asserted itself and established its prestige, not only by what it shares in terms of values but, above all, by what it does in practice and serves as an inspiration for other peoples and other territories. the presidency has chosen its priorities well. now is the time to make them real.
madam president, so, first of all welcome back prime minister, it is great to have you here again. at the beginning of your speech you have mentioned three topics. the first one is mff, the second, brexit and the last, enlargement. i consider these topics as being well chosen, as the most important as a matter of time urgency. first of all we need to create stability in european finances. second we shouldn’t miss the opportunity to negotiate as good a deal with the uk as possible, and last, we should avoid the destabilisation of your region of the balkans. but there is something even bigger. the president of the commission, ms von der leyen, and has mentioned the energy of your presidency. she also has mentioned, together with manfred weber, your experience. and i guess all this is needed to do something even bigger than the files: to build a sense of cooperation, to build an agreement and make our unity of the european union stronger. i wish you all the best in this.
the honorable chairman. mr. prime minister, you have a demanding and responsible task ahead of you, and i welcome your ambition and support your agenda. but it is urgent that we restore confidence in the rule of law, prevent corruption and tax evasion, ensure people's safety and quality of life, free ourselves from prejudice and hate speech and regulate migration. the future of the schengen area will also depend on this. it is of course in our interest that croatia joins schengen as soon as possible, but the difficult task ahead of you is to restore confidence in the rule of law and respect for the commitments made, to ensure the security of the external borders and to make schengen operational again. i look forward to your active support for the accession of the western balkan countries to the european union and to positive developments as early as march on the issue of north macedonia and albania. our countries, croatia and slovenia, simply need to do much more. mr. president, i have to ask you... we can if we choose to do so naturally and happily.
madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, our economic model is now at breaking point. it has helped lift billions out of poverty, but it is also responsible for the environmental tragedy we are facing today, and it has failed to make any significant improvements to the social situation on our continent. yet, despite this observation, we are having a hard time changing our economic model, we are having a hard time getting rid of the obsession with gdp or the level of public debt, as if we have an irrational attachment to these indicators, when, rationally, they can't tell us anything about the state of inequality, the state of the environment or the state of poverty. since you have chosen to make your presidency one of a strong europe that faces these challenges, the greatest challenge you have to face is to change our wealth indicators in order to reorient our public policies. in other words, change the intellectual software of the european union. we wish you good luck and we're counting on you.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have just confirmed what i feared in december: the green deal is a voluntary scheme with a price tag of 1 000 billion euro. but there is some confusion of language, because is this 1 000 billion the same as the 1 000 billion i hear from the eib? the extrapolation of resources, then again seven years later, then again ten years later, also creates uncertainty. you also take an advance on the multiannual budget. these negotiations are still ongoing and there is no agreement in sight. the own resources also do not seem sustainable, because of course, a plastic tax is almost by definition a disposable income. then you place a heavy burden on the eib. there is, of course, a big difference between helping to raise money and financing it yourself. it is essential that the eib maintains its aaa status and i therefore call on the eib to guard its solid position. the commission is also limping on two legs on the transitional mechanism. on the one hand, the fund is open to all member states, and on the other hand, it is clearly intended to help member states who are lagging behind with money. the fund is already in danger of becoming a dangerous bone of contention that divides the member states. we are absolutely in favour of a circular economy, but against recycling promises and money. we're not exactly hot for creative accounting, and certainly not for financial adventure. we want to focus on innovation and concrete, workable action.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, mr vice-president, since the industrial revolution, the growth of europe has been based on the exploitation of fossil fuels, and the construction of the european union itself with the ecsc is supported by the coal economy. this means that coal has structured the european economy and has made a major contribution to regional development. millions of jobs depended on it, hundreds of thousands of jobs continue to depend on it. it is therefore a real revolution to want to get out of this model, provided that the objective is indeed to close the last coal-fired power station. but it's a revolution to get out of a model that has become obsolete in the face of the climate challenge. what i want to say to you is that we have to set two priorities. first, to reduce the social cost, then to support the regions in this just transition and as chairman of the committee on regional development, i want to tell you that we are fully committed to carrying out our legislative work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a study on the conversion of my city, taranto, home to the largest and most polluting steelworks in europe, says that the cycle of fossil fuels is closing, leaving in the seas, in the ground, in the air and in the soil the slow and subtle decay of an otherwise normal life, accompanied by social disintegration and without any parachutes. it is industrial sites like this that the just transition fund must respond to, with the safeguarding of the health of citizens as its priority. it will not be a fair transition, but it will be another joke, if modernising the plants means using gas, a fossil fuel and a climate-changing source, especially without an assessment of the health impact. the strategic importance of the green new deal is in rethinking the economy, transport, energy, turning europe into a source of inspiration, a leader in the fight against global warming. but be careful. the fund must not take resources away from cohesion policy but must be in synergy. finally, the proposal: the ets could have spent as much as 48 billion on climate action over the last three years, so let's use the revenues from the ets to fund the just transition fund.
madam president, i say to the first vice-president and executive vice-president: i am not an automotive engineer but i know that our industry is probably the best engine ever built. so when it runs it needs fine tuning to keep running and deliver employment and well-being for millions of families and societies across europe. so, if we try to overload that engine for a very short period of time, it will cut out, it will break down, that’s for sure. and knowing this we should debate on the green deal and the jtf. so, i believe that we should support the european commission and its initiative to secure the future of our children and a good environment. i know the future belongs to policies, which deliver without harming the environment. i know the future belongs to policies, which are not harming the future of our kids. but i believe we could achieve that without killing whole sectors. i believe we can achieve that without leaving millions of people without jobs. so let’s work in a way to fine-tune this. my concerns are that if we have big and new initiatives, we need new and big funding, and the proper time to deliver those results. it’s a great idea, but we have to pay attention to the details and not make families, industries and whole sectors of our economy pay for this.
i welcome the european sustainable investment plan as a key part of the green new deal. the objective is to enable the financing of the green deal, but also to encourage other types of financing, primarily private investment and public financing at national level through fiscal policy reform. we must not forget that the member states must also participate in this project of creating a more socially and environmentally conscious europe. i welcome the reform of the european semester through the sustainable development goals. we also need to ensure that the recommendations received from the commission are implemented at national level in order to truly achieve the ambitious sustainable goals we have set for ourselves. the just transition fund should be used to reduce regional disparities in the european union and help the most vulnerable, and the european investment bank should significantly increase climate finance. the rules we have set out in the taxonomy directive should be the basis of all these changes. and finally, we must not forget the citizens. a just transition is not possible without dialogue with the social actors and communities affected by the transition.
madam president, commissioners, i am convinced that there can be no just ecological and digital transition without social anticipation and support. first, it is therefore imperative to help european workers to acquire the skills they will need to move from declining sectors to expanding sectors, by enhancing their employability. it will also be useful to share our knowledge of these skills and jobs needs in europe, for which we have no vision. secondly, the transition must be socially just and leave no one behind. the measures to combat energy poverty and the establishment of affordable solutions for those affected by carbon pricing measures are also important. it is therefore imperative that we ensure the social acceptability of the transition to a more sustainable and climate-neutral economy. how?by strengthening social dialogue to anticipate and manage change and by combating all forms of inequality and exclusion.
mr president, we are committed to making progress possible, including social progress, and that must now be achieved through the road map for a more social europe. not everything about that itinerary is crystal clear, but the intention is. no one is to be left behind. we know that because of globalization, because of technology, because of energy transition, work is changing, and so we're going to have to invest new funds in new jobs. we need more resources for fair and sustainable development, for example from the agricultural budget. workers should be able to earn a fair wage anywhere, including if they work through a platform. i therefore expected the commission to come forward with a proposal on fair working conditions for platform workers, alongside a proposal on minimum wages. i am glad that the commission is stating its intention to combat climate poverty. because it's hard to do green when you're in red, and let's say from here: government leaders and ministers, there are so many plans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
president. - the forest fires in australia make it painfully clear once again that action is simply very much needed against climate change. and the european green deal only works if it is also supported by people and businesses and if we take their concerns seriously, because it doesn't make sense if people can't pay their bills or the rules for entrepreneurs change every year or innovations can't grow into affordable climate solutions. so i am very much in favour of making clear policies for the longer term and also providing financial support where necessary. this can be done in the form of loans or through the european budget. but instead of going straight to the taxpayer and asking for more money, i think we should have the political courage to look at where we can cut back on old priorities and free up money in the existing european budget. the same applies to the european member states. countries must ensure that they can make the most of their european funding before they ask for new money. the european union is simply not a cash machine.
madam president, the presentation of the just transition fund is good news because the transition can only succeed if it is conducted in a fair and social way. the regions of europe do not all start from the same point. those affected by industries that emit a lot of greenhouse gases, such as the coal industry, need a political response and strong support from the european union. in these regions, polluting activities are often central to the economy, providing important jobs and income. we must not abandon these workers, we must offer them opportunities for sustainable and secure jobs. they need to be trained in new trades to enable them to work in the renewable energy sector or in the circular economy. we must therefore focus european support on the large local communities in the regions which will have to undergo a major transformation to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement. i would also like to add that it is important to put in place strict conditionality for access to the resources of the transitional fund. for example, it would not be acceptable for the fund to be used to indirectly subsidize other fossil fuels such as gas. the release of this fund is crucial to the success of the european green deal, so we will be vigilant about its implementation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-presidents of the commission! i would like to express my great satisfaction that we have the commission's proposal on concrete solutions to support those regions which need it most, that we have it on the table. we can discuss it. there's so many ideas here, i don't want to go into any of them. for many, i can say, there will be a very positive majority in the european parliament. we'll have time for a briefing, for a discussion, even in the trilogy. i was just going to say something general. and the fund is to make sure that our citizens, those in these regions that are most at risk, have the confidence that climate neutrality by 2050 will be achieved with them, for them, and not somehow alongside them or against them. it was originally created for mining regions, because the idea was born in katowice, the capital of cop24, but today, with this expansion of the fund that we have on the table, we should think about much larger, additional resources. i would ask the vice-presidents to consider how these additional resources, not from other policies, could be entered in this multiannual budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are talking about transition funds and social justice, i regret the absence of commissioner schmit. environmental health, safety at work, protection of public services, housing, the fight against energy poverty, universal income, reduction of the number of homeless people - all these issues are the conditions for a just and necessary transition. inequalities are widening across europe. global warming is accelerating these inequalities, and they are helping to strengthen the arguments of the far right and destabilise our europe. we expect much more commitment to social justice, and i want to reassure you here that we, the environmentalists, expect better and will do everything to make the construction of this social pillar a concrete reality for all our fellow citizens throughout europe.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the international community is rightly concerned about the recent escalation of tensions in iraq and the region following the attack on the us embassy in baghdad, the us strike that killed general soleimani and the tragic death of 176 foreign passengers in the conflict killed by an iranian missile. in this period of tension, which reminds us how much islamist fundamentalism, whether sunni or shiite, threatens the stability of the world, the european union has shown its worthlessness in diplomacy, as well as in defence, and this is normal. indeed, it is up to nations to conduct a foreign policy in the interests of their citizens. while i am also glad that the voice of the european parliament has not been heard - especially when we read the message of the chair of the subcommittee on security and defence, exonerating iran of its responsibility for the deaths of the passengers on the flight to ukraine - i am sorry that france's voice has not been heard. france's voice should have recalled the three fundamental axes of our diplomacy as a power of balance and mediation: respect for the territorial integrity of states, the fight against islamic fundamentalism, whether shiite or sunni - and this fight is broader than fighting terrorism - and finally support for and protection of christian minorities in this region, these communities serving as true civilizational bridges with us.
madam president, for decades iran has been at the heart of the crises in the middle east, but in recent months the tension has increased considerably and it is difficult to see the way out of the crisis. faced with an iranian regime that seems primarily concerned with its own survival, whatever the cost, the us policy of maximum pressure has not made the region any safer. the vienna agreement is broken, the war in yemen continues, the discontent of the people in iraq and iran is met with brutal repression, lebanon is in turmoil. it's time to get back to diplomacy. it is time for europe to make its voice heard, the voice of reason, and to recall its priorities: nuclear non-proliferation and the fight against daesh, which have been left behind by the current crisis. we all share these priorities, so let us act and stop watching helplessly as a powder keg is dropped on our doorstep. we are counting on you, mr. high representative.
madam president, i have no particular sympathy for the iraqi regime that was overthrown in 2003, nor for the iranian regime today, but it is clear that the west today bears a terrible responsibility in the chaos that the united states, with the support of the majority of european countries, unleashed by overthrowing the iraqi regime in 2003, citing what was not yet called fake news, the so-called weapons of mass destruction. it is clear that today, by denouncing the nuclear agreement with iran, when there was no evidence that this agreement was not respected, the united states has opened a new period of uncertainty. in this new period of uncertainty, europe is once again proving incapable of pursuing an independent policy. how can we expect iran to respect its obligations under the vienna agreement, when sanctions still weigh heavily on iran and its people? if you want de-escalation, then let's put in place a real system that allows europe to trade with this country and circumvent sanctions. if you want de-escalation, then the united states must respect the vote of the iraqi parliament and withdraw from that territory. there is worse than dictatorship, there is anarchy: that is what we have installed in this region. we are paying the price today by reaping the rewards of islamist terrorism.
madam president, before you ask us 'what should we do?' let us look at the new middle east reality. the iranian regime is now as much in dispute on its own soil as in lebanon and iraq, and the ukrainian boeing tragedy has also increased its discredit within its borders. the retreat of this theocracy in turn weakens the syrian regime and russia thus finds itself alone in the middle east, just as it is dispersing into libya. so what can europe do? it will not convince russia, iran or the united states to change course. without common defence and diplomacy, it cannot solve this crisis, but it must instead make it clear to everyone that the nuclear compromise must not be allowed to die, to bashar al-assad that he is doomed if he does not seek a political compromise, to russia that if it fails to work towards a regional compromise, it will eventually sink into the mediterranean.
madam president, on the subject of diplomacy, security and defence, david mcallister and arnaud danjean are voices that i listen to with attention and i would like to commend their work. members of the epp in their respective countries, they give the impression that they still have at least a little faith in the nation. unfortunately, while i readily share the relevance of some of their analyses of the rise of islamism and the demographic and migration challenge, the lessons they draw from them are incompatible with a vision of a europe of nations cooperating freely and they succumb to federalism. the desire to increase the european defence fund, which will support programmes that are not linked to the operational needs of the staff who are and will remain national, the desire to implement the qualified majority rule for foreign and security policy issues, the desire to talk about the strategic autonomy of the european union - all this is to defend a project of a federal europe. this is not the choice made by the peoples, expressed in the treaties. the rule of unanimity, which i am sure will not be called into question, guarantees the primacy of nations. through many amendments, including one aimed at limiting the eligibility of research and development programmes to european companies alone, we will try to give these two reports a national flavour in line with the interests of the people.
madam president, mrs von der leyen has announced a geopolitical commission and the state of the world proves her right. europe is surrounded in its immediate neighbourhood by conflicts that have been and are spreading: in syria, libya, the middle east, ukraine, the sahel, the crises are dragging on and affecting us all. we must get out of the 'time of innocence', the time when the european project, because it is a peace project, was not supposed to concern itself with defence. i welcome the realism and ambition of the reports on the cfsp and on the csdp which are being put to our vote. they recall the importance of our alliances and our commitment to effective multilateralism, but they also call for building a robust european defence that allows us to both fulfil our commitments to our allies and act autonomously whenever the defence of our interests requires it. europe's strategic autonomy has become a pressing need today. we must stop blaming our american allies for doing too much or not enough in crises and in regions that directly affect us. we must play our part, our full part, in preventing conflict but also in resolving it, using all the instruments at our disposal. let us be mediators, let us be facilitators, but let us also be actors in the return to peace when our interests are at stake. we must accept the political weight of our economic power. we can no longer leave it to other powers to shape our geopolitical environment without our voice being heard: europe has been talking, talking, it is time for action.
madam president, the european union is a political project based on the rule of law and the rule of law. it was founded to overcome and even combat radical nationalisms. europe has no place for those who do not respect the law and the rule of law, who mock it, who trample on it, even who run away from it. in this house today we have to listen to a fugitive from justice, whose only destination is the courts to answer for his crimes. and now to the debate we are having today, mr borrell. we live in a very complex, interconnected, multipolar world. the european union must be an effective global actor in order to defend its interests and its values. separated we fall into irrelevance. i have to thank both mr mcallister and mr danjean for their reports. these are comprehensive reports, and mr danjean's report in particular also emphasizes the defence dimension, which is becoming increasingly relevant for the european union and where progress has also been made recently.
madam president, let me thank both rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. the eu’s common foreign security and defence policies must be accompanied by a mutual understanding of prevailing challenges and by joint action. in addition to boosting and ensuring the interoperability of our security and defence capabilities, we must be prepared to address challenges unravelling in close proximity to our borders. for this reason, the south and east neighbourhood policies should effectively combine political financial security and the defence dimensions. it is time for the action—based eu partnerships with aspiring democratic neighbours. the list of such valuable partners is shrinking dangerously and they deserve a corresponding status in our european policies. moreover, economic interests should not overtake our security concerns. it’s self—deceiving to think that such projects as nord stream 2 are only about the economy. on the contrary, it enables russian geopolitical interests to employ destructive policies in libya and syria.
madam president, with the aspiration of our new geopolitical commission to improve the european union’s external policy and our positions and impact on the global level, this debate on the two reports is a great opportunity for us to reflect upon parliament’s view of the common foreign security and defence policy. i would like to congratulate mr david mcallister and mr arnaud danjean on the excellent reports that they have done. in these first reports, the european parliament clearly recognises and explicitly underlines that no european country is able by itself to address the foreign policy and security challenges we are facing. for me, the key issue in this regard is eu relations with the western balkans. apart from the overall common foreign and security policy objectives, we should guide these countries towards the accession they deserve. in the meantime, we continue with the common security and defence missions, such as operation althea (eufor) in bosnia and herzegovina. it’s a first european mission that works well on our continent and plays a pivotal role for the security and stability of the eu and the european continent as a whole. we as a parliament should do everything within our possibilities to show our support for the region’s european perspective, and in this regard, we should strengthen parliament’s involvement in the external financial instruments. as the co-rapporteur of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) iii, i strongly advocate that parliament needs an improved oversight and increased role during the scrutiny and the steering of the programmes. in our immediate neighbourhood, the western balkans region belongs in the european union and it’s a security issue. it’s about time that our institution embraced that fact and works towards this enlargement and to finish the business that has been started.
i have to say, madam president, i think there can be no doubt that we need to deepen cooperation in security and defence policy. under trump, the us has become an unpredictable ally, russia sees military intervention as a normal means of advancing its own interests, and many conflicts in our immediate neighbourhood are fought militarily. but the crucial thing is not just that europe should work more closely together in the field of defence, but also how it does so, and there are already differences here. i cannot understand why, for example, the intensification of cooperation should be accompanied by a drastic increase in the arms budget. firstly, the military expenditure of the eu countries is already many times that of russia. secondly, if european cooperation in defence is to be more efficient than parallel national development, why do we need more money for defence than we do today? and third, the conflicts that exist today are generally not resolved by military means or by more armaments. we need a closer european security and defence policy, based above all on diplomacy, the strengthening of international institutions, arms control, disarmament and a clear limitation of arms exports.
madam president, mr borrell, i want to thank the rapporteurs mr mcallister and mr danjean for their comprehensive reports. indeed, the multilateral order is changing. it is put under question by multiple conflicts, hybrid wars and terrorism. in this complicated situation the eu is obliged to play a global role in order to protect its citizens but also democracy, rule of law, the respect for human rights and global cooperation. the middle east is burning, africa is starving and our neighbours on east and south need eu support because the events there have a direct impact here. therefore, the eu needs to revise and strengthen its neighbourhood policy by supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity, promoting stability and fostering cooperation with the countries. moreover, the eu urgently needs a credible eu enlargement strategy in the western balkans as enlargement has been, and will continue to be, one of our best foreign policy tools. we must deliver on what we have promised to the region and keep the european perspective of the western balkans alive.
madam president, thank you to our two rapporteurs. the fables of the 1990s about the end of history or the happy globalization of rights and freedoms are definitely to be thrown in the trash. today we must decide. deciding whether we are going to remain forever teenagers who pay for words and who, at every crisis, go to join the arms of daddy america or whether we want to become real adults. if we want to become adults, if we want to build european strategic autonomy, if we want to be independent, if we want to have a say in this dangerous world, then we must provide the means to build this european defence, because the present situation is unsustainable. we cannot have french soldiers dying in the sahel, countries spending large sums of money in their budgets to build this european defence and other countries acting as if the end of history is still a valid myth. it is therefore important to choose and i thank the rapporteurs for their clear language.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, i thank both rapporteurs. i think that these are two very interesting contributions to the great debate on the external security policy of the european union. someone said, "you were sitting there, you changed your seat". yes, that is the commission, this is the council, and you know very well that the high representative is both someone who represents the council and someone who is in the commission. so, as long as that is the case, i will have to change places, and to change that, the treaties will have to be changed, and believe me, we won't do it tonight because it takes a little longer. i do not understand some members who are afraid that we are building a monster for multinationals or that we are going straight to the federalist cliff: today, whether we like it or not, the commission, a federating body, or at least a community body, has no competence in matters of foreign and defence policy. we could then say: it is strange, if it does not have the competences, why did we create the defence union? because the defence union has nothing to do with defence policy but with defence industrial policy. it is based on defence and defence industry, but defence is a separate thing. so, like it or not, we are today in a world where the common foreign policy is managed by the council with unanimity. it's still a long way from what you call "federal". what kind of federalism is this? the same applies to defence policy. i don't understand the fear that some people have that we're going to rush into the black hole of federalism. we're a long way from that. i believe that the european union needs to deepen the dimension of its capacity to act together in the world. i honestly believe that, but i think some of the members of this house do not. i honestly believe in it and i defended it when i ran for office. i believe that we europeans, through our union, must be able to take more decisive and stronger action on the international stage, and that is why we are trying to work together, by defining a common policy. but common does not mean unique. remember, when we had the common currency, it was not one. we had a little money, but we still had our own money. some things we did together, some things we did apart. how long did it take europe to move from a common currency to a single currency? how long did it take for the member states to give up their monetary sovereignty? 20 years? more than that. and currency, while a symbol of sovereignty, is not even the strongest symbol. defence, peace or war, international relations, defending the interests of every country in the world, all of that is much closer to sovereignty. it is therefore not surprising that it takes time to move from the common policy to the single policy. this report shows very clearly what the difficulties are and, believe me, i have personally faced them. when we try to discuss a subject as close to our hearts as the situation in libya, we immediately find different national positions. and that's where our weakness lies. the road ahead will certainly be long, but i believe that we must build common capacities to be able to decide not by unanimity but by qualified majority. these reports show a bit of the way with all the difficulties. that is why i salute them and thank the authors. i hope to have the opportunity to discuss this more directly because europe's future will be built around its capacity to act in the world. it is impossible to believe that we will solve the problems within our borders. everything requires action towards the rest of the world. everything: climate change, migration, everything is geopolitical today, that's the buzzword. and it's true, it is all geopolitical. and to be a true geopolitical player, you need to have strong military and diplomatic capabilities. it is often said that you have to choose between being a player or a playfield. i think, for my part, that we are in the actor, but an actor in search of identity. we don't know what kind of actor we want to be yet. it is through such reports that we can delve deeper into this existential question for the future of the union. i thank all those who have wanted to take part in this debate. it is a pity that there were not more members interested in a debate of this importance. thank you for staying until 10 p.m. for a very interesting and very important debate on the future of our society in a world in crisis.
rapporteur. – madam president, the high representative and vice—president just spoke about many issues. since we're running late, i would suggest that i keep it very short. i would just like to thank you all for your contributions. i would like to thank you for an honest and open debate. it was a pleasure for me to witness that a majority of speakers in this house is in favour of acting towards a stronger common foreign and security policy of our european union. a lot of work lies ahead of us. i have, in particular, the ongoing negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework in mind in these upcoming negotiations. dear mr borrell, we not only have to ensure the adequate financing but also the coherence, the effectiveness, the responsiveness and the flexibility of our external financing instruments. let me also finally thank the high representative – not only we are still here in the plenary but also he himself, for many, many hours now. i think this shows the respect that the high representative is showing for the european parliament.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you to all the members who took part in this debate. there were many interesting contributions i regret that some of the interventions are always marked by a kind of trial of intent. i do not think that our relations are ideological relations. these are rather pragmatic reports which point to a reality, namely that of a world in extreme turmoil, in which europe must be able to play a role, including on the military front. i hear colleagues expressing their indignation at the militarization of the european union: it is a fable, it is a vision of the mind! i hear a colleague say that we must rebalance the civilian and military aspects of the common security and defence policy. but if we are to balance the civil and the military in the common security and defence policy, we must do much more military because today the common security and defence policy is almost exclusively civil! we have eleven civilian missions in the csdp and five are military, so we have to be careful what we say. the reality is not exactly what some of my colleagues have described and that is a bit of a pity because, once again, i have acquired my convictions on this subject in contact with reality, exercising modest responsibilities but in just about every crisis area in which the european union is present. i see the need for europe everywhere, but europe in the form of its member states, in the form of the commission, in the form of joint troops or national troops. i was going to say, whatever, let's be pragmatic. but there is a need for europe. to my colleagues who are concerned about decoupling from nato: no one replaces nato in matters of collective security, but there are places where nato cannot intervene or where nato has no interest in intervening. listen, earlier this week, president trump announced that us troops will drastically withdraw from africa, so from somalia, mali, niger. and we have to rely on the americans? of course we must be able to take responsibility for ourselves, and that is exactly what i said in my opening remarks. there are places where priorities are not the same, it does not mean that we are not allies or that we are questioning a historical relationship. it is simply common sense that europe should be able to assert, display and assume its priorities and interests where others are not able to do so alongside us. it seems to me to be self-evident and common sense and if we do not want to disappear from the geopolitical map, it is a responsibility we must assume.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 january 2020. before we turn to the libya report, let me inform the president on behalf of the epp group that decisions have been taken to amend the appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be recorded in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the day of the announcement.
the following is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya (2019/2984 ((rsp)).
vpc/hr. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, things in libya are going from bad to worse. maybe in the next few days we can have some ray of hope, but since christmas the attacks of haftar's forces have intensified, the bombings on civilian areas as well. the killing of 30 military cadets at the military school in tripoli. we condemn this attack. but we spend all day condemning attacks. and the human cost of this proxy war is beginning to be unbearable for the libyan people. well, it's been unbearable for a while. there are three hundred and fifty thousand displaced people in the vicinity of tripoli, thousands of fighters, three hundred civilians killed, attacks on hospitals, including health personnel and ambulances, two hundred and fifty schools closed. the war has been fueled by several external players sending more weapons and mercenaries every day. it is no longer the war without warriors, as it was called at the beginning. no now there are a lot of warriors coming from many different countries, and it has become expanding and escalating, augmenting the risk of terrorism, regional instability, migration in our borders. the united nations special envoy, mr salamé, came on friday to the foreign affairs council, and he said that no other conflict ever saw a gap between nice words and helpful actions so wide as in libya. since april, the united nations security council met 15 times to discuss about libya and failed 15 times to call for a ceasefire. the security council: 15 times. but as i said, there is hope that a ceasefire maybe can enter into force. we hoped it was going to come into force yesterday, but this morning we knew that there was no agreement in moscow and that general haftar left moscow without giving his agreement to this ceasefire. we have been repeating many times that the europeans have to overcome our divisions, our rivalries, and that we have to be more united in order to face the situation. germany is about to announce (i don't know if it has already formally announced there were some rumours that it was going to be announced today, but i don't know exactly) if there is a formal call for the berlin conference for next sunday, after months of preparations, in which we have actively taken part. it should give way to a roadmap for the consolidation of the ceasefire, de-escalation and a return to political negotiations. this could be a good occasion. the special envoy was coming here on friday, prime minister sarraj of the internationally-recognised government was in brussels. i visited president sassoli and president michel; we passed the same message. it was impossible to have a meeting with the other party, with general haftar. we have been talking with several regional colleagues egyptian, russian and turkish counterparts. everybody seems at least a bit concerned that things in libya are getting out of control. but i cannot assure you that the ceasefire will take place and that the berlin conference will take place next sunday. at the last foreign affairs council, i called for talks about libya and iran. we strongly supported the berlin process. we tried to travel to libya, but it was not possible due to security reasons; i wonder if it was really for security reasons or there was a lack of will to receive us. the fact is that we had to meet here in brussels, where we had the visit of sarraj but not the one from haftar. now we have a mandate from the foreign affairs council to strongly engage with all parties. if there is a ceasefire, and if there is an agreement on the framework of the berlin process, then we will have to deal with monitoring the ceasefire and effectively controlling the arms embargo. but i wonder who's going to do that seriously. we are spending a lot of money in libya: more than 630 million in cooperation in the last five years. the african union-united nations agencies have been able to evacuate more than 5 000 people needing international protection and sent over 50 000 migrants back home voluntarily, with reintegration support. but there are 700,000 sub-saharan people in libya. not all of them want to go to europe; most of them have a job and a livelihood, and they prefer to stay in libya as far as the conditions allow them to do so. but if the situation becomes worse and it's impossible for them to stay in libya, maybe they can try to go to europe. so there's another threat of a push of illegal migration through the central mediterranean, where the turks and the russians are taking the lead. six months ago in the central mediterranean these two actors were not present, but today they take the lead, and this is a big change in the geopolitical structure in the mediterranean basin. six months ago we europeans were more or less active but we were alone. now, we are still more or less active more active today than six months ago but in fact the russians and the turks are having a strong leverage because they have engaged militarily on the ground. not directly, not through the regular army, but everybody knows that the flow of arms is increasing, and libya is a kind of cancer which has been metastasizing to the sahel. what's happening in the sahel has a lot to do with the fact that the big amount of arms and the fighters in libya are contaminating the whole area. now intelligence reports tell us that a lot of sudanese, syrian and people coming from the middle east are arriving in libya to fight on one side or the other. this is the situation. maybe we will have good news in the next 24 hours, maybe not. maybe the germans will call for the conference, maybe not. maybe we are going to have a ceasefire, maybe not. i really don't know. i hope that we will have a window of opportunity. libya is a rich country, one of the richest countries in africa, despite years of civil strife: rich and with a small population, only 6 million people, who could and should lead a secure and prosperous life. instead, it is entering the ninth year of an immensely destructive and disruptive political crisis. it was never going to be easy for libya to emerge from 40 years of an annihilating dictatorship and miraculously become a stable democracy. it was going to be difficult, we knew, but no one ever imagined a catastrophe like this and yet it could become even worse for the libyans, and for us, if we don't try our very best to halt this conflict and find a political solution. with the support of all member states and of parliament, of course, i really intend to do just that, hoping that this strong engagement can be part of the solution to keep libya united and to look for a peaceful solution to this conflict, because we are saying that there is no military solution. but this mantra there is no military solution we have been repeating about the syrian war. there is no military solution, there is no military solution and at the end there has been a military solution. so maybe here the same thing can happen. we europeans, since we don't want to participate in a military solution, we barricade ourselves in the belief that there is no military solution. in syria there has been a military solution brought about by the turks and the russians, and this has changed the balance in the eastern part of the mediterranean. i cannot prevent such a thing from happening, and this is something that should be of very great concern to all of us, because i'm sure nobody will be very happy if in the libyan coast there is a ring of military bases from the russian and turkish navy in front of the italian coast, controlling both routes of illegal migration towards europe in the eastern mediterranean and now maybe in the central mediterranean. at this time, at this hour 10 oclock at night i think we can speak frankly among all of us and deal seriously with the situation we are facing. let's hope that we are going to have good news in the next hours.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! we have just heard from the high representative that a political drama is unfolding in libya, a political and humanitarian drama right on our doorstep. this drama has received far too little attention for far too long. the un figures are known: since the start of the offensive by general haftar in april, according to the un, more than 1 100 people have lost their lives, there are more than 340 000 internally displaced persons and 900 000 people are in need of humanitarian aid, two thirds of them women and children. the need is great. i think that the ceasefire in libya, which has been in force since sunday, is a step forward. but the country and the people need - we have heard this - lasting peace. the german government, and especially the chancellor, have been supporting efforts to establish a lasting peace in libya for some time. and this conference, mr president, which, as far as i know, will take place in berlin next sunday, is intended to make an active contribution to this. what we must also say clearly as representatives of the european parliament is that this is not the first time we have debated this conflict. all the states directly or indirectly involved in this conflict must ensure that this civil war can finally be brought to an end and that peace can return to libya. libya should be a sovereign, peaceful country in the future. only then can we talk concretely about reconstruction, and then it will be the european union's particular task to provide assistance.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president i would like first of all to say to the high representative how much i appreciate – also at this time, in this plenary – his honesty and frankness on foreign policy debates, and how seriously he takes these debates in the european parliament. mr high representative, although i have prepared a speech, i commit next time to just listen to your intervention and then to come with some political remarks instead of something i prepared in advance. early this morning, khalifa haftar walked away from the negotiating table without signing the ceasefire agreement that would have formalised the fragile truce in libya that went into effect last sunday. this is, of course, a major blow for the suffering people of libya, for peace, and for the stability – as you said – of the wider sahel region. over the past nine months, 280 civilians and 2000 fighters have died, and almost 150 000 libyans have had to free the violence. increasing external interference, including turkey’s recent decision to send troops, is turning libya into another proxy conflict right on the eu’s borders. it is of vital importance that the current informal ceasefire holds, to prevent further escalation and misery. high representative, i commend your indispensable efforts of the past week and call on you to continue doing everything in your power to facilitate the ceasefire’s formalisation and implementation. the un—led berlin conference planned for this sunday remains critical, and together with you, we all hope that it will take place. a final remark: the libyan people deserve a long-term perspective of peace, security and reconstruction, and that’s what we’re all fighting for.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, thank you, mr borrell, i agree with everything you have said. but what's surprising is our surprise. because anyone who had listened to the actors on the ground, the actors on the ground, would have known that today's tragedy had been going on for nine years. we are now surprised by the attacks on tripoli, but it was obvious, because it started with the contradictions in the shirat agreement, which was a frankenstein agreement between two absolutely antithetical powers. we had to listen to the mps from tripoli, khalifa haftar or fayez al-sarraj, who represents absolutely no one. in this parliament all we have done is listen to legality, which in libya is non-existent, and all we have done is listen to the spokesmen of fayez al-sarraj, thinking that they were speaking for libya. libya speaks for what is happening on the ground today. i am absolutely against the war. i'm very afraid, mr. borrell, that the news is going to get worse. and a ceasefire is not the answer either, because it's not going to happen either. there is a military imbalance on the ground, which will not be stopped by fine words. it will stop if the european union really acts. because right now we are surprised by turkey and russia. but turkey and russia are, because europe has never been. because we've been in the metaphysical legality of fayez al-sarraj and we haven't heard the reality on the ground. we must have real, effective and discreet action. and if, in addition, italy and france each act as they please, what we have is our complete irrelevance. that's the reality; the rest, beautiful compositions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to contributing to peace in libya, the european union welcomes, thanks, regrets and consults. she talks, she talks a lot but she does little. there is no concrete strategy, no effort at coherence by the member states. it is a question of whether you are not asked to be the guarantor of the non-existence of the european union on the international scene. finally, not quite, because when it comes to outsourcing the management of our borders, at the cost of massive human rights violations in libya, we happily contribute. yes, ladies and gentlemen, we all share responsibility for the worsening humanitarian situation in libya. however, mr borrel, it is never too late to make europe's values a reality. let us become indispensable on the diplomatic stage, let us get involved on the ground in implementing the ceasefire and respecting human rights, let us accompany migrants and refugees. there is still time to promote an alternative to detention and inhumanity.
madam president, the western powers intervened in libya to the great detriment of that country, its neighbours, all of africa and therefore europe. today, slavery is at the centre of all the trade, and the tribes that had been subjugated under the yoke of mohamed gaddafi are once again fighting for control of the routes from the horn of africa or the western part of the sahel. on the ground, the chaos is now reportedly reduced to a clash between marshal haftar and sarraj. the latter has toured the european capitals, leading to a concomitant debate in this parliament. tobruk will be defended for the second time by turkish special forces, which says a lot about erdogan's interest in libya. and here in europe we are talking, while president erdoğan is becoming de facto the strongman of the two countries that form the migration trough that controls this migration to europe, namely turkey and libya. how can we let our naivete spread like this in broad daylight? mr borrell, yes, the solution will most likely be military but we will be absent from it. if we are not present in libya, perhaps we can at least be present at european level today to help french soldiers who are the only ones in the whole sahel area to fight islamism.
madam president, on all major international issues, the european union is absent-minded. what role did it play in the turkish offensive in syria? i don't know. what role at a time of escalation between iran and the united states? i don't know. and what role does it play in the crisis in libya? still not one. turkey and russia are the masters of the game in this region, which is so strategic for our continent. but how can we still be heard in this country, when in 2011 some did not hesitate to plunge libya into permanent chaos under the pretext of humanitarian reasons. the former french president nicolas sarkozy and his muse bernard-henri lévy are of course among the culprits of this disaster, as are all those who followed them under the nato banner. what about mr barroso, then president of the european commission, who called for the ousting of gaddafi, with the consequent destruction of the african country at the highest level of development and the opening of a massive migration corridor to europe? far from being our strength, the union, your union, is often our weakness. it is important to remember that diplomacy is still the work of nations guided by their own history and the best interests of their peoples.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, for more than a month, the french have been protesting against the destruction of their pensions. yesterday, 1 200 doctors resigned to denounce the general state of decay of our french hospitals. across europe, citizens are mobilising against the consequences of austerity, which is at the heart of the european union's treaties. everywhere they reject this individualistic future where systems of solidarity are being broken one by one. the conference on the future of europe should have responded to this tremendous desire for change. unfortunately, at this stage we are faced with a very restricted procedure, both in terms of objectives and method. the union cannot be satisfied with a cosmetic façade on the objectives. it is the whole edifice that is threatening to collapse and therefore its architecture that must be rethought, that is to say, we must dare to name things: to change the european union's treaties in depth. why not rename this conference on the future of europe as the conference on the change of the european treaties? the work is immense and we cannot afford to miss it if we want to implement a genuine european green, social and ecological pact. the logic of free trade must be abandoned, a pact of solidarity and sustainable progress must be given priority over growth and competitiveness, social harmonization must be achieved from above rather than generalised dumping. on the method, nothing would be more disastrous than a new gas plant falsely democratic. parliament must be the only leader, not the commission, which has no popular legitimacy to do so. who can think that citizens' assemblies, composed of two or three people maximum per member state and without real power of impulse, are sufficient to guarantee effective participation of citizens? who can think that the confidence of the citizens and peoples of europe in the institutions can be regained without the results of the consultations being endorsed by referendum or equivalent procedure? don't we learn from our failures? why repeat the mistake of the 2002 convention on the future of europe, which led to the unfortunate adoption of the lisbon treaty against the will of the european peoples expressed in a referendum? for years, fear of the people and disregard for the will of the citizens have been shaking the european edifice. the growing mistrust of the european institutions must be met by challenging the rules of the game. behind its grand title, the conference on the future of europe is at this stage in danger of giving birth to a mouse. that is not what we want, on behalf of our group of the european united left. european citizens deserve better: deep and radical reform for the people and the planet, based on a genuine participatory process. let us not waste another opportunity to give new meaning to the original ideal of the european project.
the answer is 'blue card'. i believe in the representative mandate. i believe in the representative mandate. i understand that the council and the commission consult the citizens because they are not parliaments, but i think there is a certain contradiction in the fact that parliamentarians elected by the people only six months ago need not consult the people at all.
perhaps you could get together afterwards and resolve that issue? and because the lady at no 29 has asked very nicely for a second question, will you accept – you may understand this one?
at this point, because we have over 16 catch-the-eye requests, i will now close catch-the-eye. i will try and continue with the blue cards, as has been referenced.
madam president, i think you have heard the position of parliament: it is almost unanimous in its view that this conference of europe must be a success. this is a new element in a debate which is often too institutional, and we have an extremely strong opportunity here. mrs šuica, i would like to refer to a word you used which echoes the french that i am, you mentioned the word "audace" and you know that it is a phrase that the revolutionary danton had quoted at the time when france was in danger, saying: "of audacity, again of audacity, always of audacity". yes, now is the time. europe is in danger, it has been said and explained, we are probably at a crossroads. yesterday we were talking about brexit and other dangers are ahead of us. sir winston churchill said 70 years ago, in place kléber, at the end of the war, that europe faced great dangers, but that it was a great power and that it should be aware of this. i am therefore addressing you, mrs šuica, and the council. and i will simply base myself on a phrase by jean monnet, who said when europe was created: europe is not there to bring states together, it is there to connect human beings together and this is the moment we find ourselves in today. i therefore look with both concern and hope to the council. i am looking at you, mrs šuica, and i am looking at the commission. and i ask you, on behalf of this institution, which represents european citizens, on behalf of the ngos, who knock on the door of these institutions, on behalf of civil society, not to waste this opportunity to finally get us to work together with all those who represent european citizenship. we must succeed together or we will fail without each other. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already taken action on this. dear colleagues, dear pascal, we have worked together on many issues over the past years. i really enjoyed your talk and i have a question for you. we have read that this conference may not lead to a reform of the treaties. do you agree with me that we should take this opportunity to discuss a possible reform of the treaty? to push this conference in this direction? to put an end to a certain imbalance in the institutions which really needs to be corrected?
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you very much, fabio, i will simply answer after listening to what the council, the commission and ms šuica have said. we must not preempt anything, we must not forbid ourselves anything, we must simply try to set up the dialogue necessary for solutions. we know that there are obstacles in europe, we know that we can overcome them: so let us do it, let us not be afraid, let us be bold, let us not be afraid of the european citizens, let us not be afraid of dialogue and let us try to reform, in effect, what must be reformed.
madam president, we are studying this text on the conference on the future of europe. in this month of january 2020, it has been said, this is the last month of our british colleagues in this european assembly. so we are experiencing in this parliament the first effects of brexit and the departure of the first of the 28 member states. we hope this is the only way out, but what do we know? did we really think, ten years ago, that this first risk of dislocation was possible? during this parliamentary session, we will also be discussing and voting on a resolution recalling the triggering of article 7 by the commission and parliament against two member state governments: poland and hungary, following serious violations of the rule of law. we seem to have been stuck for two years, with no real capacity to react to these threats to our european project. the european union is therefore at a critical juncture. this idea of a conference on the future of europe is a necessary and remarkable initiative: the president of the commission and the commissioners can be congratulated for supporting it. but above all, the fact that the european parliament has taken up this challenge with such determination and a certain amount of boldness is also promising. but let us be clear: if this conference fails, we all bear the responsibility: the council, the commission and parliament. and this could be one more step towards the end of a coherent european union that guarantees rights and is ever more inclusive. conservatives and social democrats, many of them want to curb citizen participation. we consider that to be a major mistake. we, the members of the european parliament, work here under very privileged conditions. if we do not allow the citizens involved to have similar conditions, we are mocking them. good examples of citizens' assemblies in ireland, france and parts of germany should inspire us. my colleague daniel freund has already mentioned this. considerable working time, regular meetings, information so that they can debate in an informed manner, a technical organisation to accompany them, will have a cost. the real interest of the citizens and the collective meaning of this conference cannot be achieved without, and at the end of the process, the citizens... (the president withdrew from the floor)
madam president, tomorrow we shall have a social europe, tomorrow we shall have a europe that protects, tomorrow we shall have a more democratic europe. for more than 30 years now, politicians have been singing the same song and making promises to the people of europe that have never been kept. the best intentions in the world will not do anything about it: no legitimate and lasting european project will come to life unless it is based on free cooperation between nations and therefore on respect for the sovereignty of each. the european union is not only open to criticism in its structure, but also and above all in its policy. protection of peoples in the face of unbridled globalisation, defence of their identity, artificial intelligence, technological revolution or environment and ecology - your european model has failed us in everything. we were supposed to compete with america, china, russia or india, but in reality we are powerless. i have a wish: that this conference on the future of europe will finally be the moment for a radical change of direction, but i have no illusions. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i do not confuse europe and the european union. i think that europe is a continent which invented nations, which contains within itself perhaps the most beautiful and oldest nations in the world, but in any case the european union, which has been built for just over 30 years now, is destroying nations. i am glad to see the british people regaining their freedom, but in any case we cannot imagine european cooperation without british power and i believe that we must still continue to envisage partnerships between a new form of european construction and the british nation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on the future of europe opens up an ambitious process of dialogue between the institutions and the citizens, which must be well structured. the aim is to produce a proposal for reform of the union based on concrete demands and needs. we must focus on the content and give europe the opportunity to deal with them, starting with issues that have a tangible impact on people's lives, such as taxation, the fight against climate change, social policies but also foreign policy, which is a hot topic these days. our resolution clearly shows the commitment of the european parliament to ensure that the conclusions of the conference are respected, that they are followed up effectively by specific legislative measures, by amending the treaties, because we need european federation today. parliament must play a leading role, which i believe is the best guarantee against the risk that the conference will instead become a political and electoral showcase for some leaders or be used to undermine intergovernmental agreements. we must prevent this and we will prevent it if we are to defend the future of europe.
madam president, when, like myself and many others, we are in these seats discovering this parliament, the first challenge is to understand how it works and if we sometimes have difficulties, that is to say how far it is for european citizens to take ownership of the functioning of our institutions. in our common interest, one of the first objectives of this conference should, in my view, be to bring clarity to our workings and this starts with clarity at the most emblematic moment, that is to say at the time of the european elections, which is when citizens are most aware of our issues. last may, the spitzenkandidaten (head candidates) mechanism was presented as a democratic advance, but on its own - and events have shown - it is not enough. on the other hand, it will be of great relevance if, at the same time, european citizens can vote on transnational lists and thus give a clear mandate to a european personality to try to gather a majority around his name. i think that european lists for european elections are a good objective.
madam president, the idea of reconnecting with our citizens is an essential tool, and not a recreational toy, and no one should be playing with it. we should ask our citizens what europe they envisage, and we should do it sincerely, honestly, and truthfully. if we say that we need to hear from them, then we must be ready to listen and also to implement. it has been the biggest direct democracy exercise of europe for the last decade, and we cannot initiate it with a prepared vision for the end and final results. we all know that, in some capitals, treaty changes are being drafted. projects like a europe of various speeds or blockages like the one of north macedonia may not be what the people want. they may not be happy to simply play the role of a rubber stamp. the preparation of those conferences should be focused not on assigning posts and inventing mechanisms to steer the public debates, but on how to hear what our citizens have to say and implement that. perhaps those old habits are exactly the reason why we have to reconnect with our citizens today. (applause)
madam president, for too long the idea has dominated the european institutions that europe can be made without the peoples, not against the peoples. let us leave this rhetoric to the nationalists, for the peoples, of course, but without them. this logic has reached its limits and we are now on the brink of the abyss. so yes, 100 times yes, this conference to rebuild the european union is more than necessary, but citizens must be directly involved in this work, the debate must come from the institutions to irrigate our entire societies. how can we strengthen our european democracy, how can we build a common army, how can we establish a common taxation system? these and many other issues must be debated and decided with the involvement of as many citizens as possible. it is not just a question of consulting but of co-constructing. so, ladies and gentlemen, this conference must mark a new beginning, not just in its conclusions but also in its method. in its very method, it must open the era of active rather than passive european citizenship, the era of a genuine transnational public debate. either we democratize or we die, so let's democratize.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament has recently declared a state of ecological and environmental emergency. it is therefore necessary now to act in accordance with the urgency we have jointly declared. but while it has interesting intentions, the text you have put to the vote does not take measures commensurate with the urgency of the situation. to take a few examples: the target of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions was already the one set for the previous mandate. it's not enough, we need to get to at least a 65 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 if we want to contain global warming. the text refuses to commit to the deep and necessary reform of the common agricultural policy, while the text presented today by the commission does not allow for the ecological transition of agriculture. the text refuses to denounce the union's trade policy and free trade agreements. in short, this text is not sufficient on all these points, and i cannot therefore support it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, as parliament's rapporteur on the hungarian dossier, i would like to point out that the finnish presidency has done serious, determined and courageous work. i hope the croatian presidency will do the same. the procedure provided for in article 7 (1) of the treaty on european union in respect of hungary must be continued. we were concerned at one time that the situation was extremely stagnant. thanks to the hearings organized by the finnish presidency, we have seen a small development, just a small development. today we call on the croatian and german presidencies to continue the good work done by the finns. these hearings were an important first step, because it was not easy for peers to evaluate another member state and, of course, we innovated in a rather spectacular way. we must continue along this path. another hearing may be possible, notably on the use of eu funds, which could be a next topic. mrs jourová, you raised the issue of the independence of the media. is it possible that eu funds were used to enable the concentration of media in hungary? that's a question we should be asking ourselves. i would also like to point out, and i have to do so, as mrs strugariu has said, that we also have an institutional problem. parliament is still not formally received at these hearings: we can improve on this too. this resolution, which we are going to vote on tomorrow, refers to two procedures: one against poland, the other against hungary. there's an injustice in the treatment in both cases. in the case of poland, the commission shall be heard. in the case of hungary, we parliament have not yet been formally heard, and informal meetings are not satisfactory. this cannot go on: you are setting a precedent for not establishing equality between our three institutions, and this must stop.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, in this case of the implementation of article 7 against hungary, the commission's role is only to provide the secretariat of the council, because it is for the sovereign nations and them alone to decide this debate, which is not legal at all but political. while the european parliament has rushed to initiate proceedings against a member state whose leaders are democratically elected, the rabid federalists who are fed up with viktor orbán's successive electoral successes would like to act in this chamber, but the treaties do not allow it. fidesz with its prime minister won the largest share of the vote in the european elections, almost 50% of the vote. this harshness against hungary is in fact the result of viktor orbán's legitimate, intelligent and courageous refusal to reject the suicidal policy of distributing migrants within the european union. the 'stop soros' law is just a bad pretext: to see you protesting against this law, which increases transparency regarding ngo funding, shows your absolute bad faith. you denounce russia's alleged interference in the political life of nations in a series of texts and motions, and while this hungarian law implements a concrete solution of transparency, you find it undemocratic. the people are fed up with your bad faith and your totalitarian project to make them obey financial interests without a country, and this procedure is doomed to failure. by attacking poland jointly on a different legal basis, but, in truth, because it also rejects your project of subversion of migration, you have condemned your vile procedure in advance, and i am glad of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree here that upholding the rule of law is fundamental. but what is it about here, what is it about in hungary? are the elections free? i know. are there opposition parties, is there political pluralism? i know. does the press have the right to criticize the government? as far as i know, there has been no journalist murdered in hungary and some here did not have the same energy a few weeks ago, when we were defending the rule of law, precisely. has the government been legitimately elected? i did. so now we can continue like this, we can continue without facts and in a gratuitous way to insult the choice made by the hungarian voters. it is quite possible to have political disagreements with mr orbán here and this is quite legitimate, but we have no right to turn political disagreements into criticisms of the rule of law without dramatically undermining what the preservation of these fundamental principles for the european union must be. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr president, three answers. first, there are media outlets that are critical of the government in hungary and these media outlets do exist and they are even read and listened to, thankfully. secondly, yes, when a journalist is murdered, something dramatic happens and there are no article 7 proceedings against malta today and that is of course a problem. and thirdly, you said to me, madam, that you insulted me for what i said, you spoke of shame. i say that those who are today organizing the division between the peoples of europe in the name of the principles they claim, while betraying them precisely by the procedures they demonstrate without facts, those, yes that is true, should... (the president withdrew the floor)
yellow card answer what this debate is about is the left-wing forces abusing the concept of the rule of law, degrading it to a political weapon, because they refuse to accept any political opinion or position other than their own. you are the enemies of tolerance and democracy as a consequence. we can only speak of the rule of law if we apply to everyone the same conditions that we apply to this, and we treat everyone the same. that's not the case at the moment, they're using this as a political witch hunt.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year and a half ago, parliament voted to trigger article 7. since that solemn moment, the governments of hungary and poland have continued to violate the principles of the rule of law one by one. since then, the council has held hearings, asked for explanations, requested clarifications, questioned experts and... nothing at all. nothing, or worse than nothing, as eu funds continue to enrich mr orbán's relatives through biased calls for projects. to be clear, our money enriches those who trample on our principles. we will not be taken seriously until we use the budgetary lever. let us strike at the painful spot, and make access to european funds conditional on full respect for democratic rules. in warsaw, in budapest, everywhere, ngos, young people, students are mobilizing, political parties are uniting to defend democracy and until then, we leave them alone in their struggle. it is time to show that we are more than just a doormat on which mr orbán and his friends can happily wipe their feet. this is not a political battle between groups, this is a battle for european democracy.
mr president, it was said earlier by one member here, i think it was ms charanzová, that there are prejudices at play here. there are no prejudices from me, i can guarantee you. all i want, if money has gone astray, is that the money is returned. it has nothing to do with prejudice at all. people scrimp and scrape money together to pay their taxes, and it ends up coming here. we’ve got to make sure that that money goes back to the right people. i believe the proposed cuts in the mff to agriculture and rural development were made possible because european citizens don’t believe the money is going to the right people. this just adds to that. we cannot monitor every last cent of cap money once it ends up in the nation state. however, we can create the architecture under the current review process to make sure that it is as difficult as possible for the money to go astray – whether that be legitimately or illegitimately – because currently there’s money going astray, and it’s actually legal to do it. we’ve got to nail that too – big subsidies to people who should not get it.
mr president, the eu budget is money paid in by the people of the european union. this is why it is our duty, as members of the european parliament, to defend it, to spend it with care, and to make sure that it is well spent. any conflict of interests or misuse of eu funds is unacceptable – even more so if it is done by a prime minister. this is an attack upon the people’s money. it’s unacceptable. what do we have to do? the first thing is that we have to recover the money and make sure that all amounts under investigation are returned to the eu budget. this is why we have the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and this is why we have created the european public prosecutor: to be strong, to be independent, and to be active in exactly such cases. it is important that the companies of mr babiš – and i underline this – return those amounts, and not the citizens of the czech republic as a whole. if there was any criminal offence, we must make sure that it is duly investigated. beyond the judicial consequences, there is of course also the political responsibility which belongs to the party of mr babiš and to his group in the european parliament, the renew group.
mr. chairman, please! i have the impression, after hearing the president-in-office of the council speak, that the council recognizes that this is not a matter for the council and that you can take this problem somewhere else. the commissioner has presented a large procedure which, as it turns out, takes many years, covers several items of many funds and at the end he says that the procedures will take up to 24 months. so the first reflection is too long, and from the three basic institutions it turns out that the european parliament is just being punished. i would like to be clear, this is not about politics, it is simply about money, as president hohlmeier said, it is used or misused, that is, it is misused and it must be returned, and this should not be considered by the czech courts, but by the european institutions. we have heard from mr david that prime minister babis is an extremely gifted, perhaps the most business-savvy prime minister in the european union.
mr president, council, commission, i really ask you to listen very carefully to what i will say. this is extremely harmful to the european union. this is extremely damaging to the public image of the union. theoretically speaking, the babiš case is not even the only one of such huge proportions. we only know what happened inside one country, and we know that he is an oligarch. but it’s really not about about babiš, is what i wanted to say. i want to say this: if the financial regulation article 61 is not a sufficient base, then we have to change it, and we have to change it fast. we need true powers for the european union to bring an end to this, and epo deserves all the needed resources to do that.
mr president, the transparent use of european funds is our common interest. this is not a matter for individual countries, especially not when individual cases are also reported in newspapers such as the new york times, as was the case with mr. babis. the funds for agriculture and rural development are not funds for the enrichment of oligarchs, but funds for family farms. and money that is misused or misappropriated simply has to be returned. i also support the proposal made by the previous commissioner, mr hogan, to limit the ceiling in the future financial perspective and to keep it small enough to really go to the development of family farms, rather than to the benefit of various oligarchs or royal families. that is not the way to win the trust of the european electorate. as long as the money goes into hands like that. therefore, money must be spent transparently and money wrongly received returned.
mr president, i think it is logical that the european parliament is considering the case of andrej babiš, since he is one of the biggest recipients of european subsidies in the czech republic. it is european money, european taxpayers' money, and therefore it is logical that representatives of european countries, meps, want to debate this. it is not normal for one of the richest czechs to draw money intended for poor regions and small and medium-sized enterprises. commissioner, i ask and urge you to see that this matter is properly investigated. secondly, i ask you to publish the audit reports as soon as possible. the citizens of the czech republic want to know exactly what is in these audit reports. and they have every right to be. they have a right to know what their prime minister is doing, how he's breaking the law, and whether he's in a major conflict of interest. whether he's criminally responsible is a matter for the czech judiciary to decide, not us. and please do everything you can to make sure that this never happens again. so that the oligarchs never again draw on european money.
mr. chairman, believe me, as a czech mp, i really have no interest in the czech prime minister's conflict of interest being discussed repeatedly here. i'm sorry about that. on the other hand, i fully understand my colleagues in the european parliament's demand for control of european funds. the european commission's audit has repeatedly found a conflict of interest between the czech prime minister and the misuse of eu funds by his companies. the commissioner stated that the money for the bat's nest had been returned to the european budget, so that there was no damage to the eu or the czech republic. yes, commissioner, but i remember very well when the czech prime minister's first words on the case were: 'i know nothing about this project, i have nothing to do with it.' and it was only after the investigation, under great pressure, that the prime minister came to his senses. the european parliament is not a court, we are not judging, we just want a really thorough investigation, because the european budget must be under control and must be drawn by the right people.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me conclude first of all by stressing very clearly that the commission has zero tolerance for fraud or misuse of eu funds. i know this house fully supports the commission in its fight against corruption in the structural funds. we need to ensure that public money is properly spent. let me recall that the commission presented a proposal in may 2018 on the protection of the union’s budget in cases of generalised defiance as regards the rule of law in the member states. the proposal provides for a mechanism to reduce or suspend eu funding in cases of defiance of the rule of law. for instance, the following situations may lead to misuse of the eu funds or would prevent the application of the control mechanism in case of misuse of funds: threats to the independence of the judiciary system, arbitrary or unlawful decisions by public authorities, limited availability and effectiveness of legal remedies, failure to implement judgments, or limitations on effective investigation, prosecution or sanctions for breaches of law. the commission’s top priority is to protect the eu budget. the commission has zero tolerance for fraud or misuse of eu funds. with respect to the allegations of conflicts of interests in the czech republic, the eu budget is fully protected. no payments from the eu budget under the european structural and investment funds are being made to projects that could potentially be concerned by the alleged conflict of interests. in relation to the rural development fund, the commission is not reimbursing the czech authorities for the amounts related to projects that could be potentially affected by alleged conflict of interests. with respect to the reopening of the prosecution, the ongoing national judicial investigation is the exclusive competence of the czech authorities. as the czech authorities withdrew the product from eu financing, there was no impact on the eu budget. the commission is committed to keeping the parliament informed.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me reiterate the importance the council attaches to the protection of the union’s financial interests and to the need to make sure that money is spent in an appropriate and lawful way. the investigation into individual cases in allegation is the task of the national prosecutor and judges, and of the european anti fraud office – and, soon, also of the european public prosecutor’s office. i have taken careful note of your concerns, as well as the indicators provided by the commissioner.
the motions for resolutions, which must be tabled in accordance with rule 132 (2), will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the february 2020 part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the vote of czech citizens against prime minister babiš, who is accused of gross financial misuse of eu funds, is the loudest call for democracy in the history of independent czechia. we have to listen to him. babis' argument that he won't leave because he's stubborn is immature, and his statement that the european commission is not the proper authority is understated. if the european commission is a sufficient authority to allocate money, it is also a sufficient authority to monitor its use and to draw attention to abuses, together with the court of auditors. i call on you to support citizens of all political stripes who are demanding the immediate resignation of prime minister babiš and to support the european commission in its demand for the reimbursement of subsidies. this is the only way to take responsibility and the only way to preserve the transparency and democracy that the czech republic deserves.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the conference of the parties (cop 15) to the convention on biological diversity (kunming 2020) (2019/2824 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, in november, this parliament declared the climate an environment emergency. the devastating bush fires in australia, the recent fires in the amazon and siberia, the droughts in europe last summer, as well as the dramatic decline in pollinators – this all sadly illustrates the need to act. the european commission has taken it seriously, and one of its first decisions has been to launch the european green deal, the new agenda for sustainable growth in the european union, tackling the most serious climate and environmental challenges of our times. this commission wants the european union to lead on both climate neutrality and the road to the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversit (cbd) in kunming in october 2020, where the world is to agree on the post—2020 global biodiversity framework. i welcome the fact that the european parliament fully supports this ambition. for the european union, it means leading by example and therefore developing our own european commitments. the european union biodiversity strategy 2030, which we will adopt by march 2020, will include proposals for such eu commitments and will set out our ambition for kunming, including on global targets. preparations for this strategy are currently going on at full speed within the commission, and the resolution which you will adopt tomorrow will be an important input and inspiration for our own reflections and upcoming decisions. we failed twice to achieve our past ten-year biodiversity targets; we cannot allow ourselves to fail again. science is perfectly clear that we need a holistic approach for transformative change to address the climate and environment emergency. this should be the spirit for our preparations for cbd cop15, as well as for our work under the european green deal. as regards the post-2020 global biodiversity framework, we fully support the european parliament’s demand for a stronger implementation mechanism and strengthen tools for accountability. we need a systemic and regular cycle for reviewing implementation of the committed actions and progress in reducing the pressures on biodiversity. we should agree on one or a small number of clear overarching long-term goals, similar to the 1.5-degree objective for climate change, in order to maintain political support through the period. we should also kick-start the cycle immediately. parties should respond to the global framework by 2021, allowing a stocktaking of actions and commitments at cop16 in 2022, at least for the most important issues. finally, the monitoring and indicator framework should include headline indicators that are common across parties and hence allow an assessment of the national contributions to achieving the global targets. a stronger implementation and review mechanism will boost work under many environmental agreements. let me highlight, in this context, the synergies with our important work on international ocean governance, and in particular with our ongoing negotiations on a new international treaty under the un convention of the law of the sea to protect marine biodiversity in the high seas. it is essential to ensure the means of implementation. the european union and its member states collectively lived up to the international commitment to double international biodiversity financing to developing countries. we need financial flows from all sources to benefit nature and biodiversity more, including by mobilising domestic resources. let me stress three further important aspects in this context. first, the world still spends much more on subsidies that are harmful to biodiversity than it spends on pro-biodiversity action. we need much more progress on phasing out the subsidies and reshaping them to ensure that they are compatible and supportive to biodiversity conservation. secondly, restoration of ecosystems is typically more expensive than conservation. the quicker we protect the remaining valuable nature and we address the drivers of biodiversity loss, the less we will need to restore, if possible, and the cheaper it will be. finally, we need to massively scale-up investments in climate—resilient, nature-based solutions which multiply benefits for biodiversity, climate—change mitigation and adaptation, food security, and finally, of course, health. for the european union, leading by example means that we should make strong commitments to better protect and climate-proof the biodiversity—rich areas, to restore degraded ecosystems in nature across rural and urban landscapes, to sustainably use and manage our agricultural, forest and ocean resources, and to integrate biodiversity across policies and sectors, including in our outermost regions and territories. we need to make sure that we deliver on our commitments, this time by creating the adequate enabling environment, from full implementation and enforcement of the eu’s nature legislation to potentially developing new legislation for restoring nature, mainstreaming biodiversity and providing adequate financing. the next multiannual financial framework will be crucial in this regard. we need to guarantee that adequate resources are provided for the protection, restoration and sustainable use of ecosystems through the core eu funding instruments, such as the common agricultural policy, cohesion and regional funds, horizon europe, the external action financial instrument and life. we need to ensure that such funding leverages private funding through investeu. we need to ensure a just transition where the necessary transformational change do not leave anyone behind. this means we have to support, for example, our farmers, forest managers and fishermen and women along this transition. we also need to avoid exporting the damage of biodiversity outside the european union by consuming unsustainably produced and traded products. this is why the future eu biodiversity strategy will need to address sustainable consumption and production, a reduction of the eu’s ecological footprint and the integration of biodiversity into our trade policy. we also need to engage much better with our international partners and various stakeholders. for example, we need to work with businesses and financial actors with the tools to account for their biodiversity dependency and impacts, so that they can take the right measures to support and contribute to biodiversity. the window of opportunity to achieve our global biodiversity vision to live in harmony with nature is narrowing fast, and the next years will be crucial. knowing the time it takes to get to implementation, this commission is very aware of its responsibility during its five-year mandate. you can count on our full commitment to work hard and achieve our common objective.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the un proposed on monday to protect 30% of the planet by 2030. for cop 15, 17 objectives are being put forward to enhance the value of life, reduce our impact on nature and link climate and biodiversity, which are two sides of the same coin: the survival of our planet. i agree with all these objectives. unlike aichi's, which unfortunately remained wishful thinking, this draft finally presents precise and quantified objectives with means of monitoring. this is also what we advocate in our resolution, but we go further: we want these objectives to be legally binding so that they do not remain a dead letter. let's make cop15 the equivalent of the paris climate agreement and take concrete action on the european continent now. i invite the european commission in the strategy it will present in march to take such binding objectives itself and to step up efforts across all its policies. let us increase our protected areas, develop increased support for research and innovation, massively support our farmers, fishermen and forestry sector in the transition to more sustainable practices. the responsibility also lies with the member states, but also with each local authority. we must not wait until october, we must act now.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, europe, the european union, is facing unprecedented environmental challenges and biodiversity loss is one of them. as has already been said, we are facing a real emergency situation because 73% of the terrestrial ecosystems in the european union and 40% of the marine ecosystems are in a state of degradation and at risk. in fact, we may be entering what we can call the sixth mass extinction, and the european environment agency says so, because the number of species that are going extinct every day is the highest in the history of mankind. so we have great challenges. we must face them, and that is what parliament wants to do with this resolution, to ask the commission for greater ambition in the new strategy for the protection of biodiversity and for that greater ambition in our european strategy to be the cover letter at the next meeting of the cop 15 in china. legally binding targets to protect natural areas, 30% by 2030, half the planet by 2050; legally binding targets to restore highly degraded areas and degraded habitats at risk of extinction. we must also have more budget for this. you can't have more ambition with less budget. 10% of the new financial framework must be specifically linked to the protection of biodiversity and, of course, we must work together with all the actors involved in the key elements for the protection of biodiversity. farmers, fishermen are partners. we will not achieve any of the objectives of the paris agreement, the european green deal, if we are not ambitious in this new biodiversity strategy.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cop 15 in october will have to set targets for the next ten years on biodiversity. we must not be complacent about climate change: human activity is clearly responsible. but rather than systematically moralizing citizens and acting solely through taxation, is it not rather the politicians who are to blame? we regret that neither the change of economic model, nor the questioning of free trade agreements, nor the need to re-establish internal and external borders within the european union appear to be your priorities in environmental protection. yes, we are responsible for our lifestyles and our consumption patterns, but our individual efforts are still very little if there is no major change in breaking with the dominant ideology. there is an urgency: we are witnessing the disappearance of species that are directly affected by climate and environmental phenomena. the situation at the poles and in australia is a sad reminder of this. the health of our fellow citizens is threatened by air pollution, water pollution, land pollution, the logic of yield and the pressure of financial power. why blame the citizen who needs his vehicle to work, when shipping companies, which produce more co2 than road transport, have no obligation to reduce their emissions? thanks to treaties passed here, we import poorly produced goods from halfway around the world. thanks to treaties voted here, we are allowing the extension of the use of gmos or the use of pesticides that the ceta offers us on a plate, such as atrazine. you say you defend biodiversity, but you tell me that ritual slaughter is not a problem, in terms of religious freedom. however, no guarantees are required as to the fate of the exported cattle. ecology must be real and not just a display. eco-whitening and worldliness only serve to unmask the real culprits behind the troubles of our time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution clearly illustrates the dramatic scale of the ecological emergency we are experiencing. we are all witnessing the unprecedented decline of nature on a global scale in human history, with the accelerating rate of extinction of a myriad species and the threat of extinction now affecting an additional million species of animals and plants. extreme weather events caused by ongoing climate change make the impact on biodiversity loss even more deleterious. it is peacefully recognized that the current trend has devastating consequences for the whole of humanity and is such as to undermine the achievement of 80% of the sustainable development goals, with enormous increases in levels of poverty, food insecurity and damage to human health. in the face of all this, the least the current european commission can do for the next cop 15 in china and the launch of the new eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 is to move beyond the logic of voluntary commitments and set the most ambitious legally binding targets for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the extinction of species is accelerating at a rate we have never seen before, and we are facing a very serious ecological crisis. about one million an unimaginable number of animal and plant species are threatened with extinction. this is the most serious we've seen since the dinosaurs went extinct. the loss of biodiversity also has devastating consequences for us humans. i think when bees die out, what happens to food production, to our ability to sustain ourselves on this planet? at the same time, we continue to see a high use of pesticides, not least in agriculture, and we know that this is one of the causes of the crisis we are experiencing. we really need to reduce the amount of chemicals in our environment and put a stop to it immediately, to reverse the trend we're seeing. we know that heavy use is dangerous. we also know that endocrine disruptors are particularly dangerous to our ecosystems and to us humans, and they're in our everyday lives all the time. and our children, we have one here, they experience this in their daily lives. it's a huge health hazard. we need to set ambitious reduction targets for pesticides. i am very proud of the work that has been done, and the priorities of our group are well anchored in this resolution for cop15. i am glad that we are aiming at binding targets for biodiversity. we will fight for that.
thank you, colleague, and i also want to say hello to your beautiful child, who has joined us for this speech.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing this evening your strategy on biodiversity in europe for 2030. that is very good, but there is already a european strategy for 2020, and it has failed completely. none of the environmental protection objectives we set for europe will be met. so if you come back to us in a few weeks, at the end of february, with a strategy, with big numbers, with good intentions, but without any concrete, binding legislative element that will allow us to change the situation, that will be a nice strategy, but a useless strategy. and what is actually expected is that 30% of the whole of europe's territory should be protected to leave nature alone from the impacts of human activity. what is desired is a binding target for a numerical reduction in the use and risks of pesticides in europe. what we want is for you to come back with a method of evaluating the impact of these pesticides on bees. the european parliament has been asking you for several months now, and we are still waiting for your new proposal. it is also about protecting nature outside europe. we, the european continent, are the most impactful in the world, by our consumption, on tropical forests. come back with a concrete proposal to combat imported deforestation. that's all we want. if we do not have that, commissioner, it will be a strategy for nothing.
mr president, 75% of the terrestrial environment and 66% of the marine environment are threatened. one million of the eight species are threatened with extinction. by destroying biodiversity, we are destroying ourselves. the future of humanity is threatened by those states that destroy the forests on their territory or by those multinational companies for whom oil can flow freely as long as the profit flows with it. for too long, money has been the only thing that has been playing with borders. it is now the ecological imperative which must overcome national logic if we are to defend our common future. instead of continuing to plunder nature as if we could exploit it without limit, we must finally consider it as a global commons with the right to regenerate itself. this is not just a philosophical change: we must give nature a legal status to really protect the living. the coming year will be crucial for the future of the planet: the un has called for the preservation of 30% of the world's surface. if we want cop 15 to be a success, as cop 25 was, europe must take the necessary steps, re-saving europe and recognizing ecocides and the rights of nature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest report from the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity is alarming: more than one million animal and plant species, or one in eight species, are now threatened with extinction. this is the sixth mass extinction that's going on. yet our leaders are not up to the task. the targets decided in 2010 will not be achieved. the decisions of cop 15 will therefore be decisive. to be credible, the european union must take strong action and involve the entire international community. i'll give you two. first, on pesticides: according to scientists, intensive farming is one of the main causes of biodiversity loss. broad-spectrum pesticides, such as glyphosate, are particularly targeted. our parliament must now decide on their prohibition with a precise timetable for the development of alternatives. secondly, on genetically modified organisms used to protect crops from pesticides: we banned the techniques that existed at the time in 2001, but the big manufacturers are trying to circumvent our regulations by introducing new gmos, which are equally dangerous to our environment. it is time for our parliament to put a stop to them by banning them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since we are looking a lot at australia at the moment, let us look a little closer because there is something else burning. let's look a little bit deeper under the surface of the water, and look at this great barrier reef burning right in front of us. rising temperatures, human activities, chemical and biological pollution, plastics of all kinds, all these elements are having devastating effects on this great barrier. more generally, according to ipbes (intergovernmental scientific and policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services), two thirds of the marine environment has been significantly modified by human action. but underwater, it's relatively unnoticed, so let's take a closer look. let's have ambitious targets to rebuild marine biodiversity, let's have the ambition of 30 per cent marine protected areas, let's have the same ambition for 100 per cent of our ocean, this ocean that has been acting like a sponge for decades, but is beginning to run out. two points in the resolution are particularly urgent: that the european union, the world's leading maritime area, make the ocean one of its priorities, and also that all parties to the convention recognize the ocean, as my colleague catherine chabaud would say, as a common good of mankind. our future depends on it.
the respected chairman! my fellow citizens! my grandson is very interested in ornithology, and he can tell you about any of the hundreds of airplanes. so it pains me to think that he may never see a black stork, a philippine eagle, or anything else. each day, some 150 species of plants, birds, animals, and insects are becoming extinct worldwide, largely as a result of human activity. i believe that the reduction of intensive farming and the use of pesticides and herbicides should be a major area of work. we need to support organic farming and clean food without gmos. first, it will improve animal and plant health and promote biodiversity. second, the products grown in this way are healthier and more palatable. third, it is economically viable because the world's demand for clean food is increasing. i certainly expect a lot of support for biodiversity and adequate funding from the european union budget.
mr president, in the last ten years, our understanding and knowledge of the interdependence between fauna, flora and humans has advanced, but the destruction continues at a scale and speed never before seen. we've talked about it, a million species are threatened with extinction according to 2019 figures from ipbes, which is an international group of scientists. we have really entered a period of tipping point. the climate emergency requires that we tackle this loss of biodiversity and these human-induced factors that threaten the future of humanity. and when i talk about the future of humanity, i think about the impact of biodiversity loss on indigenous peoples. nobody talks about these indigenous peoples, and yet they are part of the biodiversity conservation and they play a crucial role. at the same time, this loss of biodiversity has consequences for developing countries, food sovereignty and the health of populations. europe must therefore take a clear and strong stand in kunming, china, at the end of 2020, and we have a duty to preserve this living thing, to replant forests, to clean up the oceans and to favour healthy agriculture without gmos and without pesticides.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'd like to put the loss of biodiversity down to three numbers and an insect. the numbers are 84, 76 and 15. 84% of european crops depend on natural pollination by insects, the number of these flying insects has declined by 76% in 30 years, and up to €15 billion of the eu's annual agricultural yield is directly attributable to pollinators. this is dramatic in many ways. and among those insects is the bee. protecting them is therefore not only necessary for the sake of animal welfare, biodiversity or the ecological balance, but also economically viable. the bee is dying for four reasons: first, varroamilbe, second, global warming, third, monocultures, and fourth, pesticides, and most importantly, neonicotinoids. the varro moth is going to be managed by beekeepers, and in climate action, i think we did our homework this morning on the new green deal. my proposals on monoculture and pesticides: first, to give more support to family farms. these bring diversity to the fields, save the bees and the farmer's profession. secondly, we must ban neonicotinoids, reduce pesticides and look for alternatives. because when the bee dies, the man dies. i do not know how you feel about that, commissioner, but i would like to prevent that.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, it is clear from the data and the facts that we urgently need a new binding strategy for biodiversity. the fires in the arctic circle, the amazon and australia have brought to the fore in the most dramatic way the need to adopt binding targets for the conservation and restoration of biodiversity. we must take up this weapon to go to the cop15 in china, we must take up this weapon to hold all the powers of the world to account and demand a binding agreement, similar to that of paris. but first we must take up our responsibilities as the european union, with adequate funding from the new budget, by protecting biodiversity, by supporting clean food and its producers, and by involving businesses. good practices for the protection of biodiversity by companies, such as business for nature, which is also being implemented in greece, can be our guide.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many species of animals, plants and other organisms are being wiped out by the massive use of chemicals, but also because we are taking more and more of their habitat. yet, another cause of species extinction is often overlooked. it's the radio radiation, and it's getting more intense all the time. long-term research has shown that radiation can disorient bees and other animals, for example, so that they may fly away from home but cannot find their home. mice sometimes become irreversibly infertile as early as the fifth generation. we've made similar observations in other species. if we continue to expand mobile communications as planned, many species of animals and plants will disappear from this earth irrevocably.
mr president, the european union must make the oceans one of the priorities of its biodiversity strategy. in my country, most of our territory is actually sea. biodiversity and healthy ecosystems, including oceans, which absorb more than 25% of co2 emissions and are the main supplier of oxygen, are key to achieving the objectives of the paris agreement and to strengthening the european union's resilience and adaptation to climate change, which will reduce ocean oxygen to 4% by 2100. and the effects of this oxygen depletion will be dramatic for habitats and coastal economies that depend on the oceans. we are seeing a million species at risk of extinction, the degradation of coastal areas or the increase in plastic islands, which in the north pacific are already 17 times the size of portugal. i have finished, mr president. we need a zero-plastic ocean policy, we need to save the oceans, we need to prove that we want to win the battle of biodiversity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must do more to protect species worldwide and, of course, in the european union. that is why tomorrow we as the epp will be voting in favour of this resolution, and i thank all those who have helped, above all, of course, the epp in agnès evren. but i want to warn you that when we talk about biodiversity, we tend to favor the easy solutions: more protected areas, 30% everywhere, stricter infringement procedures. let us also think about new ideas better networking and what colleague jahr proposed in the agricultural reform incentives for renaturation, for example, re-irrigation of bogs. we must support this more and we must - and i regret to say this - sometimes weigh up the situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is really not getting us anywhere. we need to work together, not confront.
mr. chairman, i'm sorry to hear that. the indians say the earth is our mother, so we must treat it with great care. if we don't handle it with care, it's gonna pay back very badly. and we're learning that every day. the fact is that many animal and plant species have disappeared, and we must act. at the same time, these measures must be life-saving. because people can't get angry about these excessive administrative measures. every animal and plant species on this planet has its meaning, it has its purpose. although insects can be irritating at times, they are very important partners in pollination. the european commission has a very large and important task how to protect animal and plant species while also meeting the needs of people. it's not all the farmers' fault. our consumerism is also largely responsible for pollution.
mr president, the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2020 has failed. the rate of species extinction has not slowed down, but rather has accelerated, and the number of animal and plant species at risk of extinction is colossal. the repercussions on ecosystems and on human communities will be severe. in this context, it is not enough to recall failed strategies or to proclaim ambitious objectives without realistic and sufficient means of achieving them. what is foreseen for the next multiannual financial framework, commissioner, is far from encouraging at this level as well. the solution also lies in private appropriation and the commodification of nature and its resources, which only exacerbate the problem. the destruction and fragmentation of habitats, climate change, the introduction of invasive alien species into the environment are among the causes of biodiversity loss, which are inseparable from the dominant economic model and the policies that support it. to attack these causes in a consistent way ultimately requires challenging this model and these policies.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank members for their contributions and support for an ambitious biodiversity policy within the european union and globally. i can only agree with mr luena, when he said we have only one planet and no ‘planet b’. we have a huge responsibility to implement the transformative change that is required to put nature on the path to recovery by 2030. for the benefit of all people, yes, we need to be ambitious. we will need to explain very clearly to citizens and stakeholders why we need to change our patterns of consumption and production, highlight the benefits for well—being, health and for the economy, and ensure a just transition. let me reassure you that i have taken good note and listened carefully to your call for legally—binding targets, to your comments on pesticides, sustainable agriculture, deforestation and gene—drive organisms. we are still discussing the biodiversity strategy internally, but action-oriented targets should be about integrating biodiversity across policies and sectors, including agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and about protecting and restoring nature. of course, this should be evidence—based and well assessed. i am particularly grateful to mr kokkalis, ms o’sullivan, mr melo and mr karleskind for raising the important role of oceans – not only for biodiversity but also for mitigating climate change. as the commissioner for environment, oceans and fisheries, i am particularly sensitive to this topic, and i can reassure you that i will make sure that our green deal will also be a blue deal because, as you know, green without blue is only yellow. i’m looking forward to collaborating with the parliament on implementing the european green deal on shaping an ambitious european union 2030 biodiversity strategy and on preparing for a successful biodiversity cop15 in october in kunming. i am looking forward to the resolution that you adopt tomorrow. it will guide us when we finalise and adopt our biodiversity strategy over the coming weeks.
six motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 january 2020.
the next item is the debate on the report by peter jahr, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2018 (2019/2134(ini)) (a9-0032/2019). i would also like to remind you that you can apply for the opportunity to speak spontaneously and to use the 'blue card' both in the usual way and by using the electronic system. instructions for use are posted at the entrance to the chamber.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not we have had a very intense discussion this week about the need for the european institutions to be closer to the citizens. we want to establish a european convention so that citizens can decide how the european union should develop and how it should continue to operate. but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget: the european ombudsman is an institution that is very close to the citizen, and closer to the citizen, one might almost say, is not possible. you can contact the ombudsman directly, you can write to him, you can even say, you can touch him if you want. the ombudsman is there for the citizens, not for the council, the commission or the european parliament. that means that as an ombudsman you sometimes have to go to the institutions, to the commission, to the council, and yet you have to work closely together. i congratulate the ombudsman, emily o'reilly, on her work and her constructive efforts to get this money, if you will, to work with us and to take the interests of the citizens into account. the aim is to improve the quality of the european union's administration and the accessibility and quality of its services to citizens. i would like to commend mrs o'reilly's work on transparency in the council, for which she has - i would say this explicitly - been strongly supported by parliament. this, on the other hand, has caused the council less joy. but transparency and public access to council documents are essential, and it can truly be said that the council could cut at least two slices off the european parliament - no more and no less. we demand transparency from the council, that is what we are doing, and that is what the council should do. it is important that the european union's legislative procedures are made more accountable to the public, and it is also important that we can bring this closer to the citizens. we call on the council, as one of the two bodies of european legislation, not to act as a diplomatic forum but, as required by the treaties, to adapt its working methods to the standards of a parliamentary democracy. i had a pleasure working on that report. we have had good cooperation under or with the rapporteurs. we have produced a good report, we have ensured that it has been - i will always call it that - depoliticised in such a way that it has been able to reach a large majority. it was indeed the case that the report was adopted by 28 votes in favour, one against and one abstention in the committee on petitions. so it is also a good sign of the work of the committee on petitions, if you will, and a good sign of the cooperation between the committee on petitions and the ombudsmen. i hope that this year can continue like this.
european ombudsman. – mr president, good evening everybody and thank you to mr jahr and to the shadow rapporteurs for your work on this report. it is always a great pleasure to present the annual reports of my office to parliament. however, this year is particularly significant, as i am presenting our work to a new parliament, with many new members and which four weeks ago voted confidence in me and in that work by electing me for a second mandate. i am very grateful for that trust and i intend fully to live up to it. i also very much welcome the presence of commissioner šefčovič at this debate, which comes at the very beginning of this commission’s mandate and i wish it well in the vital work it does for everyone in europe and also for many beyond our borders, honourable members, as ombudsman i am the bridge between citizens and the eu administration when problems arise and complaints are made. the complaints come from individuals, civil society organisations, businesses, journalists and often from members of this parliament. we apply not only eu law in our analysis, but also the principles of good administration, seeking a just outcome for citizens who are often overwhelmed by the at times technocratic nature and distance of the eu administration. we are not advocates, but we try to create a balanced playing field between the often powerless complainant and the very powerful institutions. the year 2018 saw a strong increase in complaints that fall within my mandate, and this continued in 2019. this is not because the eu administration lowered its standards, but because many more people became aware of the work of my office and what it has achieved and can achieve. i am grateful to the eu institutions, agencies and bodies for their cooperation in this work. the vast majority of cases are dealt with through a strong collaborative engagement with the administration and it is important to acknowledge that. yes, i highlight problems, because that is my job, but i also witness all of the good work of eu officials and have indeed publicly and tangibly acknowledged it through an awards scheme introduced to showcase and praise their work and to share good practice throughout the administration. as in previous years, accountability and transparency related inquiries made up the highest proportion of my office’s work. in 2018, i also used one of the ombudsman’s infrequently used powers: that of submitting a special report to the european parliament. this was only the second time i had done so since my first election as ombudsman. in 2013, i told parliament that this power should be used very rarely and only in particularly serious cases where an institution does not act upon ombudsman recommendations. that special report concerned an inquiry into the accountability of the council of the eu, notably through the lack of transparency of the legislative processes used for discussing and amending draft eu legislation. the public has a right to know how their governments contribute to shaping that eu legislation. without that right being exercised, the ‘blame brussels’ culture will continue with national ministers obscuring their own role in the making of laws that affect their citizens. i was very grateful to receive the overwhelming support of the plenary for my proposals. while these recommendations have met some resistance from larger member states, i welcome the growing coalition of governments in council that have publicly expressed support for such changes. at the moment, it is 10 member states and i hope that the current presidency and the following german presidency will take up this issue of importance to european democracy and indeed legitimacy. as the european ombudsman, i also coordinate the european network of ombudsmen – which consists of 96 offices in 36 european countries, with the european parliament’s committee on petitions also being a member. the 2018 annual conference took place in april in the european parliament in brussels, with michel barnier as keynote speaker, and i am very grateful for the highly professional support of parliament in helping us make the event such a success. at the start of the ombudsman’s new five-year mandate, it is important to ask and to examine what role it should play within the architecture of the eu in 2020 and beyond. if the von der leyen commission is going to be the ‘geopolitical’ commission, and become more involved in migration issues, foreign policy, defence cooperation and in tackling the global climate crisis – alongside several eu agencies – then who will provide oversight of this work? this parliament will provide the democratic oversight, of course, and the ombudsman must also provide oversight of an eu administration which arguably is more directly hands on and on the ground than ever before. whether it is frontex coordinating forced return flights for migrants, or easo interviewing asylum seekers in the greek islands, or the european defence agency trying to envisage the technology required for a 21st century battlefield, the eu is changing and so the ombudsman must also adapt in order to keep pace with that change. however, the reality is that the office consists of fewer than seventy (70) posts. we are receiving record numbers of complaints and dealing with more and more complex cases. the lack of resources of my office has already been recognised by parliament in the annual budgetary process and in the ongoing revision of the ombudsman statute. however, i do ask that this issue is discussed further and in a more comprehensive way, and especially with the commission and council, and i hope we can find an agreed way forward. it is in the interest of all of us, that the ombudsman’s office is fully equipped and resourced for the 21st century. we must be able to fulfil our role under the eu treaties, in line with the expectations of european citizens, and in this new ‘geopolitical’ world.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madam ombudsman, i am very pleased to be here tonight and to have the opportunity to discuss with you the annual report of the activities of the european ombudsman in 2018 and the report of the committee on petitions (peti). let me start by congratulating the rapporteur, mr peter jahr, the coordinators of the peti committee and its members who have been involved in this valuable work. as every year, these reports provide all eu institutions, agencies, bodies and offices with the views of parliament on the issues that it considers as being noteworthy and important. as far as the commission is concerned, i would like to assure you that the commission is very much committed to ensuring good administration in our relations with the citizens, associations and businesses with whom we interact. this is a fundamental part of our work, and we attach great importance to the quality of these relations. the commission is indeed dedicated to the values of service, independence, responsibility, accountability, efficiency and transparency, and it strives to put the citizens’ right to good administration into practice and to avoid instances of maladministration. the cooperation with the european ombudsman is key in this respect, especially as around two-thirds of european ombudsman inquiries, namely 58.2% or 285 inquiries in 2018, concerned the european commission. we are indeed the institution with the most direct administrative dealings with the citizens. every year, the commission agrees with around three-quarters of the european ombudsman’s proposals, be they proposals for a solution, suggestions for improvement or recommendations. thus, in most cases where the ombudsman issues recommendations, proposals for a solution or suggestions for improvement, the commission and the ombudsman agree in the end. this explains why, at the end of the day, only around 6% of the inquiries end with finding of maladministration. in other words, the ombudsman, after diligent inquiries, in an overwhelming majority of cases, closes complaints with no conclusions of maladministration on the side of the commission, either because there was indeed no instance of maladministration or because a satisfying outcome could be achieved. the commission’s high standards of good administration have been highlighted by the european ombudsman, notably on the occasion of the european ombudsman award for good administration. in 2019, the commission won the overall prize, which recognises initiatives having a visible and direct positive impact on the lives of people in europe and beyond for its work on the reduction of plastic pollution and awareness—raising about single—use plastics. it also won several awards in different subcategories. the commission is also aware that it has to continue to pave the way, assess, improve even more and, where necessary, correct its administrative practices. this is why the commission will pursue the very constructive relationship it has built with the ombudsman over the years, first and foremost in the interest of the european citizens and other interested parties. i look forward to the debate tonight with the honourable members, and i thank you already for your attention.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i don’t want to repeat what has been said before. i want to, but i don’t have time so i will not. we all know that emily o’reilly has done an excellent job and i congratulate her on her re—election. however, this election has shown that there are some procedural problems. it will be our task in the committee on petitions to change or clarify the election procedure for the next term. it should be in line with the principles that the ombudsman stands for: clear, transparent and fair. there should be rules on campaigning for, as we all know, this campaign, unfortunately, was kind of dirty sometimes, and we of course need a very clear timeframe so as not to put those candidates who are acting according to the rules into a vulnerable position in comparison with others. after the adoption of this report tomorrow, we also need a vision for the future. i agree with what was said by my colleagues from the ppe and s&d groups, but i would like to highlight another thing. there are still things which have to be done regarding good administration in eu institutions, and the procedure behind commission responses is one of them. when we send citizens’ complaints about member states and possible infringements to the commission, the commission asks the national authorities about this. they ask the possible infringer whether they are breaking eu law, and the answer is of course always, ‘no’. what is interesting is that the commission is normally satisfied with this answer and we receive answers from the commission saying that there is no problem and no infringement. this means that we are not standing on the side of the citizen who is complaining and who is in an unequal battle with european bureaucracy. this needs to be changed. the same applies to the ‘eu pilot’ where we can submit individual complaints about possible infringements. the process is not transparent. the documents of closed files are not openly available and getting them is a big problem. i would like to see a more proactive and more transparent approach, and of course i look forward to cooperating with the ombudsman further and hopefully to solving this problem.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, i believe that the european union is ill-placed to give lessons in morality or respect for human rights. in fact, its institutions violate the most basic rules of ethics. this is particularly the case for the brussels commission and the european central bank, as evidenced by the 2018 report of the european ombudsman. the ombudsman denounces the way in which the european commission appointed its secretary-general, the german martin selmayr, in february 2018. the commission also found that the commission had failed to fulfil its obligations under article 108 (3) of the treaty. i concluded that i was right to denounce the illegality of his appointment, both in this house and in the committee on legal affairs. unfortunately, it took 16 months to hear me and get rid of selmayr. following this scandal, the ombudsman requested that a detailed procedure be put in place for the appointment of the secretary-general. unfortunately, it stresses in its report that 'the commission refused to set up such a procedure'. the lack of transparency therefore remains. page 13, the ombudsman also criticises the european central bank and more specifically its president mario draghi, whom she criticises for having joined a private organisation, the group of 30, which includes the directors of the major private banks. despite these criticisms, draghi remained a member of the group of 30. the ombudsman concludes, with great concern, that this is likely to cast doubt on the independence of the european central bank from financial lobbies. the ombudsman thus confirms the reality of what i have always denounced: the european union lacks transparency and ethics.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. mr. speaker, i have to ask you a question. i would like to congratulate you on your re-election as european ombudsman, as this is the best possible expression of appreciation for your work so far. also, this exhibition report of your activities in 2018 as the best ratings. the ecr group, of course, fully supports this text. but the beginning of a term is a much better opportunity to talk about the future than the past. i would like to ask you to pay particular attention to the problem of the lack of transparency in the decision-making process in the framework of the trilateral negotiations, the so-called trilogues. unfortunately, this procedure is becoming a caricature of what it should be. the most striking example of this is the work on the mobility package, which i was able to participate in. the european union's democratic deficit is due to a lack of transparency in the creation of european law. i am convinced that the european ombudsman should look at the practice of creating one with particular attention.
mr furore, you have time to speak.
we have certain speaking times in this house. it's no good writing things down and then reading them down at double speed. mr president, you are new to parliament, and mrs evi has been here for quite some time. she was in the same place before, and she knows that there were colleagues i've already warned. perhaps you could consult with them, which is appropriate when you have speaking hours in the future.
mr president, the eu ombudsman plays a vital role in our european democracy, improving administration and ensuring that the ethics of our institutions are upheld, and i was delighted to see emily o’reilly re-elected in december. emily, you’ve been an exemplary case of somebody who has advocated for transparency and good governance and, at a time when many of us – or many of our countries – are questioning the eu, and on the eve of our departure, your work on opening the black box of decision—making is needed more than ever. this is my last speech in the european parliament, representing my beautiful and diverse home region, the north east of england. it’s been an honour; it’s been a privilege. i hope at some point somebody else will sit in this seat representing my home. but, in the meantime, we’re going and i’d like to thank my current staff, paul ugo, carla, matt, max and malcolm, for their dedication and hard work during the most testing of times, and my previous staff as well. so from us, the british delegation in the committee on petitions, all we have to say is good luck and good night. (loud applause)
it's not my place to do this, but you were very moved just now. you said you were elected for the north east of england. my hometown gerlingen has a sister city in the north-east, seaham. i'd like you to send my best wishes to seaham.
mr president, commissioner, madam ombudsman, thank you to the rapporteur for his work. the confidence of citizens in the european union depends in particular on greater transparency. there have been advances in our institutions, for example in the field of commerce. the european commission must continue to publish the negotiating documents and the council to make the mandates public. improvements are possible, we have all stressed, and they are necessary. the council, in particular, must ensure greater transparency in its functioning. we must also use all our energy to ensure that an agreement is reached as soon as possible on the establishment of a common, mandatory and legally binding transparency register for interest groups. bringing citizens closer to the european institutions is an effective way of combating euroscepticism. in this sense, we must all continue our work and strengthen the strategy launched by the ombudsman to increase her visibility. you can count on my support.
member of the commission. – madam president, from the outset, let me underline that i fully share with you the consideration of the importance of high ethical standards in the european civil service in general. these high ethical standards are vital – vital components that allow democracy to thrive. the effective operation of ethics in the civil service requires that public officials and agents be independent, impartial and responsible to the people. i understand that the move of mr farkas from the european banking authority (eba) to the private sector generated some concerns and in this context, you addressed questions to the commission with regards to its policy and its legal framework. you have also raised the point in relation to the horizontal harmonisation of the ethical legal framework across the eu institutions. the staff regulations and the implementing rules adopted by the commission apply to all eu agencies, unless agencies adopt their own implementing rules which are validated by the commission. at the same time, each agency holds its independence, since they are separate legal entities. this means that agencies are independently responsible for the implementation of the rules, compliance and for adopting individual decisions concerning their staff and this also concerns mr farkas. the decision concerning mr farkas was taken by the eba board of supervisors, which is the decision-making body to decide on and enforce post-employment restrictions. the members of the board with voting rights are the heads of the national public authorities, competent for the supervision of credit institutions in each member state. the commission participates in the board meetings with only one representative, without voting rights. this mode of governance is the choice of the legislator. as mentioned, the eba, like all eu institutions, is bound by the staff regulations. these contain a comprehensive ethical framework. the latest staff regulations – reform of 2013 – reinforced this framework in the area of post-employment restrictions. more specifically, the staff regulations require that potential conflicts of interest are assessed upon recruitment or integration after a period of leave on personal grounds. these provisions explicitly address the issue of lobbying in a democracy during leave on personal grounds or after having left the institution. with particular regard to post-employment activities, the assessment is made on a case-by-case basis. prohibitions or restrictions must be well reasoned and proportionate. for each case there must be appropriate balance between the need to ensure the integrity of the work of the institution, through temporary prohibitions and restrictions and, on the other hand, the need to respect the former staff members’ right to engage in work and to pursue a freely chosen or accepted occupation, as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. on these matters, the commission has in place implementing rules which are regularly revised to reflect recommendations, in particular from the european parliament, the european ombudsman and the european court of auditors. this was the case when the new decision on outside activities and assignments and occupational activities after leaving the service was adopted in 2018. i would also like to underline the importance of transparency. since 2014, the staff regulations provide that each institution must publish annually information on the implementation of the prohibition for former senior managers for one year to engage in lobbying or advocacy vis-à-vis staff of the former institution on matters for which they were responsible during the last three years in service. the commission has just published its fifth report. this is part of the commission’s overall efforts to achieve greater transparency, which also includes publication of commissioners’ and senior staff meetings and updates to the eu transparency register, to name just a few. over the recent years, the commission has indeed closely cooperated with the european ombudsman in the framework of her inquiries looking into the revolving doors phenomenon. when closing its second inquiry in february last year, the european ombudsman confirmed that the commission has high standards in the area of ethics and transparency and encouraged the commission to continue to lead by example. in july last year, the european court of auditors issued a report on the ethical framework of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the court of auditors’ audit confirmed that, to a large extent, the audited institutions have established adequate ethical frameworks and that the commission is well advanced in this matter. the new college marks a new momentum to address ethical challenges, together with new ideas and determination. in this respect, vice-president jourová has been entrusted by the president to work with the european parliament and the council on setting up an independent ethics body common to all eu institutions. cooperation with the other institutions in this process, of course, is key to making this a success.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. latent conflicts of interest, such as those that may arise from a direct transfer of top-level staff from supervisory authorities to the private sector, erode trust in the european union and its institutions. but the truth is also - and this has already been mentioned - that we cannot of course impose any professional bans. so if we want to commit top officials to a cooling-off period, of course we have to compensate them accordingly. otherwise we are really going into legal difficulty. it is therefore necessary that the european commission not only says: 'this is an agency with its own rules' but that we think together about a common legal framework. i very much regret that the council is not taking part in this debate, because the support of the council is also necessary for the single legal framework. it would be good if the council presidency would also take up this subject with us. this also means that the supervisory authorities themselves are given less leeway. it is not possible for them to decide for themselves what is permissible and what is not, because they are measuring by different criteria than european top officials should. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also be a little careful. i always say, if you want to ride, you have to keep your own stable clean. and that is why it is also part of this - and we as the epp have included this in the resolution - that we see this not only for institutions but also for parliament: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i am therefore very pleased that we have made it clear in our resolution that the provisions of the staff regulations on conflicts of interest should also apply to staff.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, today it feels especially good to be a member of this parliament. while the guardian of the treaties has looked the other way thus far, commissioner, this institution has taken up the challenge to defend the rules that we hold dear. the eu has strong safeguards against revolving doors and the perverse incentives that come from that. these new rules enable us to prevent employees from taking up positions that harm our collective interest. however, without their application and enforcement, rules turn into paper tigers. it is this vital that this parliament reminds the commission, reminds the european banking authority (eba), reminds the public that we will not let vital rules descend into irrelevance. with this resolution, we send the reminder loud and clear: we demand that mr farkas’ move be blocked. if this demand is not met, we will stand ready to ban him from this parliament. but it doesn’t end here. we see a sort of intimate love story developing between the eba on the one hand, and association for financial markets in europe (afme) on the other hand now that gerry cross has also been appointed. we need to continue to address potential conflicts of interest in the eu, and this starts in two weeks’ time if mr farkas indeed takes up his new job. i trust that the parliamentary leadership will implement our call not to grant mr farkas an access badge. commissioner, we will be monitoring you and other agendas from your colleagues to verify whether you heed our advice not to meet mr farkas in the coming two years. well, i’m proud of the strong stance that we have taken together. we should highlight one thing: no one comes out of this story looking good. so, much better than standing up in defence of our common rules is not to let their strength be doubted at all.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the case of ádám farkas has rightly caused a great deal of attention, because it is a matter of a major conflict of interest. if the number two in the european banking authority moves directly from this position to the top of the big bank lobby, it weakens the confidence of citizens in european democracy. and the further european institutions are from local democracy, the higher the ethical standards must be. it is therefore right that the eu has always had higher standards in areas such as the transparency of lobbying and documents. but in the area of the revolving door between the private sector and powerful lobbies and public positions, the rules are unfortunately not as strong. that's why we need to tighten the rules here. the rules we have are a joke. that is also true of the rules now imposed on mr farkas. it is important that the eu commission applies the staff regulations strictly, and we know that one reason why the commission has not examined farkas' case so thoroughly and ruled against him so far is that it is not often so strict with its own staff. it is true that these problems exist in the european parliament too. this starts with parliamentary assistants, but it does not stop with members, who continue to receive salaries after the end of their term of office, without any conditions regarding conflicts of interest. and that's why i like to take the initiative. let's make our own rules here in the house. because when we made our report on the integrity, transparency and accountability of the european parliament, there was very, very little support for my proposals to limit the revolving door. so i'm glad we're gonna do things differently here. but the european banking authority in particular must take seriously our call for a reconsideration of this decision. if she doesn't, there must be consequences. and we have an opportunity, because the new number two is also coming from the big bank lobby, and we will see how serious we really are about this decision here. this is a key point, and the sabathil case, which is currently receiving a great deal of attention, is also a cause for concern as regards the revolving door effect. all the institutions must therefore clean up the mess and show the consequences of this resolution.
madam president, commissioner, the last financial crisis revealed a clear grey area where the financial sector, the authorities, the regulators, the supervisors, shared information, shared spaces, shared debates. and they shared them in such a way that, somehow or other, they ended up influencing the decisions. and this perception of european citizenship, this perception that public authorities are not as independent as they should be from some kind of interest groups, is a perception that undermines trust in the democratic system, it's an appreciation that undermines trust in europe, in the community project. i think it is very important that in this case we are discussing, the committee on economic and monetary affairs of parliament unanimously - unanimously, not a large majority, unanimously - adopted a series of requirements, recommendations to avoid this kind of revolving door. because we do not think it is reasonable that colleagues in the supervisory institutions should be the ones to assess whether or not public employees of those agencies can go to certain companies. we need an independent agency, with competence for all the european institutions, the commission and the supervisory agencies, which can somehow clearly assess the criteria, finally assess the characteristics of these labour movements, in order to improve the confidence of european citizens in the institutions, to improve confidence in european democracy and to open up a space, as i say, of greater political responsibility throughout the union.
madam president, everyone says so, but it must be done: we must put an end to the opaque and disproportionate influence of lobbies on our public policies: the financial lobby, but also the nuclear lobby, the fossil fuel lobby, etc. they are numerous and organized to advance their private interests in the shadows, with the consequences we know: bank deregulation, energy subsidies of the past, and so on. we need more transparency to fight these dark forces, because we are far from done with corruption. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, adopted on 14 june, is designed to ensure that the right to equal treatment for men and women is guaranteed in all member states. to regain the full confidence of the citizens, which is what everyone here is calling for, it is time to end the collusion between public and private interests. for example, because this is the one we are looking at today, a senior civil servant, mr farkas, in charge of european banking supervision, should not be able to become the director of the main financial lobby overnight. but that is what is happening now and it is not acceptable. stricter rules are needed to preserve the integrity of our institutions. for example, there is a need to set longer transition periods between two activities with potential conflicts of interest with a ban on access badges to parliament. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. when we say we want to defend the general interest, we must act accordingly, starting with accepting transparency and clarity.
madam president, on christmas day, december 25, 11 christians were beheaded. on january 8, four seminarians aged 18 to 23 were kidnapped in nigeria. on the same day, 13 people were killed in an attack on a christian village. all these names are added to the 35,000 people who have been directly victimized by jihadism and boko haram in particular over the past decade in nigeria. there are three reasons for this: first, these conflicts are thriving in this country and the fact that nothing is being done to stop them, perhaps because no one sees or wants to see that behind ethnic wars, one of the new battlefields of islamism is actually being played out, which, on a global level, seeks to divide, fracture and kill. the second reason is the passivity of the nigerian government and even sometimes the complicity of some security forces, who do not intervene. we must hold this government to account, because it has the means to restore civil peace and it must guarantee the rights of minorities. finally, the third reason is our own fragility, ladies and gentlemen, because in this country, as elsewhere in africa, the united states is withdrawing, europe itself is being erased and, in the vacuum we leave, other actors are taking their place: china, of course, but also turkey, qatar, all those countries which have an economic interest, of course, but also undoubtedly an ideological interest in acting in such a region and making it even more fragile. europe must be at the forefront of ensuring respect for the rights of minorities, especially christian minorities, who need our protection. and to ensure the balance of this region, we must hold the nigerian government accountable: europe must act today in nigeria.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union was an ideal of peace so that war would never again ravage the soil of our continent. it was also an ideal of cooperation between all the peoples of europe. europe has already experienced 50 years of division and the constant risk of a return to war. it is in the name of this ideal, which is unfortunately far away today, that i challenge the project of a defence europe. defence against who? against russia? another european country that should be our partner and not our adversary? defence with who? with nato, an outdated and bellicose organization attached to the chariot of us imperialism, making us sympathetic to donald trump's reckless actions? that's not reasonable. the europe of defence is the europe of war. let us instead return to the path of dialogue by organising a major conference on peace and cooperation in europe to reduce tensions. let us face the climate and environmental challenge, rather than adding the fires of war to the great global fire.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is sick of free trade, austerity and free and undistorted competition. it broke with popular sovereignty when it ratified the treaty of lisbon, which was rejected by the french people in 2005. it is being dismantled, and brexit is a clear example of this. a conference on the future of europe can therefore only make sense if it seeks to restore the link between the peoples and the construction of europe. firstly, it is necessary to recognise the failure of the lisbon treaty, rather than pretend that this sad episode never happened. the aim of the new treaty is to revise illegitimate european treaties which are embedded in the marble of economic policies whose consequences are now being rejected by the masses. finally, we must commit ourselves to ensuring that the outcome of any conference on the future of the european union is subject to ratification by the peoples of the member states, wherever possible, by referendum. that is the meaning of the amendments we have proposed. unfortunately, this parliament has chosen to reject them, as if it wanted to continue in its bubble, despite the growing distrust of the citizens. so let him not count on us to approve his communication operation which will still cause many disappointments.
madam president, juan guaidó and nicolás maduro are definitely haunting this house. one is adorned with all virtues. he has just been elected to the presidency of his newspaper and our parliament finds this normal. if our environmentalist colleagues were to organise a vote in their newspaper tomorrow, could they boast of being the presidents of our assembly? in short, nicolás maduro is focusing our criticism and we understand that. caught in ideological excesses, it condemns a large part of its population to exile. at the same time, we can see that what is attracting the attention of the international community are maduro's alliances with his declared opponents in the united states. but are us sanctions helping the venezuelan people? do they not, on the contrary, prove that behind humanitarian posters there is a political will to exercise cultural and economic hegemony over this part of the world? a humanitarian emergency is not solved by economic sanctions. when will we have a broad reflection on the question of sanctions, embargoes, the extension of these sanctions to families, relatives and tomorrow why not to neighbours? these practices conceal, under the guise of humanitarian aid, the exercise of immense political pressure.
on behalf of the id group. mr. speaker, we are indeed asking you to withdraw the resolution on the indian citizenship law reform, 2019 from the agenda. we believe that this resolution is particularly unwelcome in the present context, as the indian supreme court is due to rule on the validity of this law in the near future. let's imagine for a second that the supreme court rejects this law: it will be accused of giving in to international pressure. let us suppose, moreover, that it accepts this law: it will, again, be accused of having provoked a decision of the european union. i sincerely believe that, in respect of the sovereignty of india, it is urgent to await the decision of the supreme court. we therefore ask you to withdraw this resolution outright.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, for once, i will make an exception. today is an exceptional moment and i will speak in english because i want to speak to our british friends. to all of you, i will say that we will miss you. the eu will not be the same without you. my deep feeling is that there is no good brexit. although i support the withdrawal agreement, i’m still convinced that we are better off together than we will be apart from one another. to all our lib dem colleagues, i want to express my deep friendship, emotion and admiration. they fought for europe against all odds. they were a tremendous added value to the work of this parliament and they remain part of the renew europe family. to the british citizens living in the eu, to the european citizens living in the uk, i want to assure you: we won’t let you down. this parliament is the voice of the citizens, and we will make sure that citizens’ rights are fully respected. to the brexiteers, i could say ‘no hard feelings’. you have achieved your objective. you enter a new phase – the most difficult one – and you will have no one to blame for the future of your country, especially not brussels. you are in charge. but trust me, if some of you think that the next phase is the weakening of the eu, we will prove you dead wrong. we will renew europe, make it better, make it stronger, learn the lessons from brexit. brexit is a sad and exceptional moment and will remain both.
madam president, i would like to say to our british colleagues: we have had disagreements, but you have been loyal in the debates. europe is today a better place because of you. we will never forget that your parents fought on oceans and seas, on the beach and landing grounds, in the fields, in the streets, in the hills, and that they did never surrender. our freedom lies in their generosity. our peace lies in their sacrifice. we are blood brothers and sisters, a community of hope. we shall never forget it; you should never forget it. so in this crucial moment of history, let me tell you that it’s been the greatest honour to share the last 46 years with you, and that the day will come that we will be reunited again. i don’t know when, i don’t know how, but, as we learned from your parents, surrender is never an option. dear colleagues, god bless the united kingdom. god bless all of us.
madam president, sadly we will have to vote today on the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, and we will do it for one reason and one reason only: this agreement is needed for damage control. brexit, even many of those who voted to leave know it by now, will always be damaging: damaging for the european union, even more damaging for the uk, and most of all, damaging for our capacity to tackle together the common challenges we face. but if brexit is to happen, it is better to have it in an orderly way, providing for a transition period, avoiding by now a catastrophic no-deal scenario, safeguarding citizens’ rights and ensuring an open border between ireland and northern ireland. but we are not here today only to vote on an agreement; we are here to write history. unfortunately, the page that is going to be written today is regrettable. i wish to thank our british colleagues with great emotion for their valuable contribution to the european project. looking ahead, i want to assure them that we will do our best to negotiate a fruitful future relationship with the uk for the benefit of both parties while safeguarding the integrity of the single market, our high environmental and social standards, and citizens’ rights. finally, let me say that, despite brexit and this rising movement of nationalism and populism, the european project will prevail, will prevail ensuring peace, will prevail delivering prosperity and defending our common values.
madam president, i want to make two points. first of all, the root cause why the uk is leaving is because the leaders of the parties at westminster, the two big parties, live in a fantasy world. they work in ancient buildings. the buildings were built for an empire, and they still think they’re running an empire and are a superpower. consequently, they have never told the british people the reality that we are a european country and not a superpower, and even our children in the schools are not taught in the curriculum about europe. so there has been an abject failure by westminster. sadly, in this debate, farage, who’s gone, and hannan, who i think is still in there, told a complete untruth. this project was never about free trade. it was always about more than free trade and ever-closer union. even mrs thatcher, in the referendum campaign in 1975, said this is about more than just free trade. so when they talk about free trade only, it’s been misleading the british people all the way along. and that’s a disgrace. the last thing i want to say is, i’ve been privileged enough to have been elected here for the first time in 1979 – a very long time ago – and i still want to see next (it isn’t finished) the construction of a european fbi to fight cross-border crime, because our police forces – we have 500 in europe – none of them can cross borders and pursue the criminals. so colleagues, keep building, keep going on, as liliana segre said to us, one foot in front of another.
madam president, it is important to remember that the majority of women and young people of the uk voted to stay in the european union. 75% of 18-24-year-olds voted to keep the united kingdom in the european union. more specifically, 80% of women between the ages of 18 and 24 were against brexit, and there is a reason for that. the european union protects women’s rights to a great extent. will the uk, out of europe, give the same guarantees? the scots, the northern irish, the welsh, by their citizens’ votes and also, these last two years, by their national parliaments have continued to express their attachment to the european union. they now find themselves on the sidelines. the choices of these regional assemblies are not heard, and this is one of the major problems of brexit. but there is another concern, a very strong one. great britain today is a country with a very deregulated economy and a very unequal society. european directives on workers’ rights were the last bulwark for the most vulnerable part: women, minorities and young people. we greens, regionalists and pirates will pay close attention to the situation of citizens’ rights in the aftermath. we are committed to protecting the rights of all europeans living in britain and british people living in the rest of europe.
madam president, we are finally here! so it took four years. four years of false promises, postponements, multiple attempts at sabotage. four years for the voice of a sovereign people to be heard through a referendum. the leaders of the european union want us to believe that britain is the big loser of brexit and that it is about to leave history, but is instead entering it by reconnecting with the instruments that found the freedom of a nation. theories of fear will never work against reality: the imf now admits it itself, the uk economy is doing well and its growth prospects are promising. with brexit, a chapter in european history is turning, one in which it was wrongly believed that weakening the sovereignty of each would make the power of all. today's vote is a message of hope from the british people. it calls on us to rebuild a europe that is adrift in order to meet the challenges of tomorrow. british friends, this europe of cooperation, we will build it to make you want to be part of it. you leave the european union but you remain in europe, a wind of freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we would like to thank all our british colleagues for their contribution to the work done here, our respect for the great people they represent and our gratitude to this people to whom we owe, in the light of our history, our freedom, which they have acquired for us at the price of their blood. we must of course pursue this matter now and we trust michel barnier to prepare our future relationship. we must build partnership together on security, economy, ecology and i would like to mention in particular the fisheries issue, which is so close to our hearts. we have so much to share, we need to continue this friendship now. my dear colleagues, let us not veil our faces. brexit is also a wake-up call. the vote of no confidence in the referendum should be a warning to us. we will not solve europe's problems by disregarding or condemning this defiance. we will only solve this problem by rebuilding a europe that can inspire the confidence of our citizens, by proving its effectiveness and by showing that it can strengthen our democracies and serve our freedoms.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam health commissioner, this new form of virus should certainly not cause us to panic, but to be cautious, given the uncertainties that persist. it shows us that health threats are now global and require a united and united response. no, viruses know no borders. the solutions are to be found at european level. i welcome the action of the european union and the activation of the civil protection mechanism for the repatriation of citizens of my country, france. i also welcome the monitoring and coordination of the situation by the european centre for disease prevention and control. as a doctor, i would like to end with a remark: last year, the flu killed 13 000 people in france. the current concern should not therefore lead us to forget that serious health problems are currently accessible to prevention by vaccination, and we still have to fight against reluctance to do so.
mr president, the new coronavirus outbreak demonstrates once again the importance of adequate funding of science as well as international cooperation. in different parts of the world, several teams are already working on a vaccine for this virus, and we have reason to believe that a solution may emerge more quickly than in 2003, when we faced the sars coronavirus. it's worth being prepared, it's worth investing in science. it was thanks to funding provided by horizon 2020 that a vaccine against ebola was developed following the outbreak of that disease in 2014. this development has allowed us to save many lives around the world. the added value of investment in science becomes very clear when the results come in, but they only come in when there is a solid, continuous and sustainable bet.
member of the commission. – it’s an interesting debate. i will try to touch on as many questions as possible. i hope, in the way that i spoke at the beginning, i did not appear to stir up panic. this was not the intention, and as veronique trillet-lenoir has said, we should not create panic. but we need to balance that with being vigilant and carefully monitoring a changing situation, which is what we have at the moment. there are many uncertainties – many of you have mentioned this. the who has issued guidelines, together with ecdc, for travel, and i would also like to add here that we really don’t have any indications, as has been said by some colleagues and by madam montserrat, that china is not giving all the necessary information. in fact, the who general director was there two days ago and has already briefed us on what the situation is. it’s obvious that we need to have global cooperation and we need to have constant updates. we do need to be very careful that we are speaking with one clear voice, and this is exactly what we are trying to do in our coordinating role as a commission, to ensure that ecdc info and who information reaches the member states. in terms of vaccinations, the commission is launching a call to develop a vaccine as we speak, and the european medicines authority can authorise a fast-track procedure if this is found. there is concern among european citizens, and who and ecdc have given clear guidelines on travel precautions and laboratory testing and isolation, and our information from member states is that, once eu citizens are repatriated, quarantine measures will be taken. we have joined forces with as many other entities and bodies as possible, and member states have assured us through the cdc that their laboratories are ready. finally, i wanted to say that, under the union civil protection mechanism, further emergency assistance can be provided if requested, including emergency medical corps, which can be deployed both inside and outside the european union. so i will stop here. i just want to be absolutely emphatic that we are going to continue to monitor this very closely. we are monitoring it on a daily basis – responsibly, without creating panic, but also being aware that we have a complex evolving situation that we need to be aware of, and i will be available to inform the parliament at any point in time of any developments.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank you for today’s exchange of views on this topic, which is of crucial importance for the health of eu citizens at home and abroad. the croatian presidency will do its part, in close cooperation with the eu bodies responsible for health and other member states, to ensure continued monitoring of the development of the situation in china, but also in other south-eastern asian countries and indeed in the european union, so that necessary measures can be taken if the situation gets worse. at this stage, we do not consider that the situation in europe constitutes a crisis. however, to make sure, we are ready for any developments, and we believe it is prudent to enable maximum information sharing among the european partners as well as to our citizens. the activation of the integrated political crisis response mechanism offers a practical tool to do that. furthermore, we underline the important work done by the health security committee and the european centre for disease prevention and control. i assure you that we very closely follow the development of this potentially very serious disease outbreak. there are established eu structures for handling serious health threats – i think in particular of the health security committee and the european centre for disease prevention and control, which both do an excellent job. for the time being, there is, in our view, no reason to assume that those structures, in combination with increased vigilance from national authorities, would not suffice for protecting public health in the european union. the presidency will keep the situation under close review and will keep you actively informed.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the rights of indigenous peoples (2019/3015 ((rsp)). again, i would like to remind you that you can apply for spontaneous and blue card applications both in the traditional way and electronically. the instructions are to be found at the entrance to the chamber.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy – mr president, honourable members, the eu policies on support to indigenous peoples goes back three decades and were last reconfirmed in the may 2017 council conclusions on indigenous peoples, reaffirming our support for the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. despite some important gains in the recognition of the rights of indigenous peoples in many countries of the world, in recent years we have also seen a number of setbacks. most troubling are the high numbers of indigenous leaders and activists killed every year in the defence of their ancestral lands and the environment – at least 40 persons every year. such tragic crimes underline the high relevance of our policies on support to indigenous peoples and human rights defenders working on land, environment, biodiversity and climate. specifically on human rights defenders, the european instrument for democracy and human rights funds the eu human rights defenders mechanism, which provided support to more than 30 000 hrds from 2015 to 2019 and their families through a combination of short-, medium- and long-term initiatives. the eu’s support to land governance and secure access and tenure of land is equally important. while we continue to foster dialogue and promote respect for responsible land governance, the eu is supporting land governance in about 40 countries, with a total budget of 240 million euros. as an example, i mention the eu support to land governance in colombia, which enabled the collective titling of 280 000 hectares, benefiting some 8 000 indigenous and afro-colombian families. indigenous peoples also feature highly in our enhanced attention to the human rights and environment and climate nexus. during the european development days held in june of 2019, the eeas organised an event dedicated to the strengthening of international solidarity and support to indigenous peoples and environmental human rights defenders. another event at the edds on non-discrimination and the human rights to safe drinking water and sanitation brought testimonies from indigenous experts, along with other experts on other frequently-discriminated groups. furthermore, the 21st annual eu ngo human rights forum meeting in december 2019 under the theme of building a fair environmental future had a specific session dedicated to indigenous peoples. indigenous experts, including the un special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, along with indigenous youth, had prominent speaking roles, allowing them – together with the invited indigenous participants – to bring forward concerns as possible contributions of indigenous peoples in building a fair environmental future. the afore-mentioned council conclusions underscore the crucial importance of further enhancing opportunities for dialogue and consultation with indigenous peoples at all levels of eu cooperation. this includes eu-funded programmes and projects under all aid modalities to secure the full participation of indigenous people; their free, prior, and informed consent in a meaningful and systematic way; and also to inform and underpin eu external action policy and its implementation worldwide. in follow-up to the council conclusions, on 24 and 25 february in brussels we will host a round table with indigenous peoples’ representatives as well as experts from the four indigenous socio-cultural regions of the world. the specific objectives of the round table will be the identification of the most prevalent and emerging threats to indigenous people’s rights, and to generate recommendations on how to best address indigenous people’s rights through eu policy and action. mr president, please allow me now to mention briefly some examples of support that we provide in the context of indigenous peoples’ languages. in namibia, the european instrument for democracy and human rights contributed to the revitalisation of endangered indigenous languages. in the chittagong hill tracts of bangladesh, we have also helped develop a multilingual mother-tongue education programme in seven different tribal languages as part of the 500 million the eu invests annually in education programmes in around 60 countries across the world. such programmes and projects can be seen as the eu’s contribution to the success of the international decade of indigenous languages 2020-2029, which was proclaimed by the united nations general assembly in december of last year. let me assure you and the honourable members of the eu’s strong commitment to the rights of indigenous peoples as part of our human rights policies. as such, we remain firmly committed to their promotion and respect through all aspects of eu external policies, cooperation and trade, as well as through political dialogues with third countries in regional and multilateral lateral fora and by giving financial support. honourable members, mr president, thank you for your attention, and i look forward to our discussion tonight.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, here in our european parliament we are working for 500 million people. but across the planet, there are also 500 million women and men who are the last ambassadors of the ancestral strength of indigenous peoples. and among them are europeans: the kanaks of new caledonia, the maohi of polynesia, the bushinges and all the others on the rivers of guyana and the inuit of greenland. so, you know, when they see their icebergs melting at the north pole, how can they not understand that there's an absolute emergency? when their rivers in the amazon rainforest are poisoned with mercury by illegal gold miners, they need to be protected. when they see the sea level rise on their islands in the pacific, the european green deal must intervene. we are looking for solutions to climate change. well, the indigenous people have solutions, they have ancient skills. protecting them out there is also saving lives here.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, from the americas to asia, indigenous and native peoples face the same threats. a year ago, in a similar debate, we demanded that no trade agreements be signed that would allow or encourage the plundering of indigenous lands and the violation of their rights. and what has the european union done in all this time? for example, accelerating trade negotiations with mercosur, which includes a country like brazil, with a far-right government, which harasses indigenous peoples to expropriate their lands. 80% of the planet's biodiversity, which is crucial to any strategy to combat climate change, is in indigenous territories. let's not be hypocritical, people. the rights of indigenous peoples have to be above the power of corporate power, the power of european multinationals.
mr president, despite being systematically discriminated against or oppressed by colonial states, indigenous peoples are vital to the preservation of our ecological balance, because for them their ecosystems are an intrinsic part of their identity. over the past 30 years, their international recognition has improved, particularly with the 2017 united nations declaration, but every year thousands of them continue to be criminalized for defending their right to self-government and land. only they can protect nature from the neo-colonial mentality of some rulers and the neo-liberal mentality of some multinationals. we must also support them from europe, but not just with good words. the european union has an obligation to review all its free trade agreements to ensure that neither the territory nor the resources of indigenous peoples are used without their consent. as the resolution says, indigenous peoples have the right to self-determination. it is our duty to respect and protect it.
mr president, we are talking about indigenous peoples and we are talking about more than 5 000 indigenous peoples in 90 different countries. of that population, 185 million are women. it has been said that indigenous peoples have defended their homes, their environment, throughout the centuries; and by defending their homes, they have defended the homes of all. today we know that many, many endangered species are preserved because they have defended biodiversity, their environment, sometimes with their lives. we must protect them, we must respect them and we must make a special defence, commissioner, of women. vandana shiva told us 20 years ago: in most cultures, women have been the guardians of biodiversity. they produce, reproduce, consume and conserve biodiversity in the practice of agriculture. let us protect them, let us protect them especially, because by respecting their lives we guarantee the lives of all of us.
mr president, ecocides are gaining ground. in australia, aboriginal people have seen their lands ravaged by mega-fires whose scale is closely linked to global warming. their warnings were ignored and their knowledge, especially their knowledge of nature, was ignored and denied. for too long, we have disregarded the indigenous knowledge of the women and men who know how to respect and protect the living. it's time to respect their rights. indigenous peoples have knowledge and skills that have come from far away. these peoples have not forgotten that we are all part of life. their relationship with nature should inspire us more. let us be wise to become modest again, to finally recognize the rights of nature, to put an end to the reckless modes of production and consumption that are destroying the planet. the time has come for ecology: let us protect the future by reconciling humans and nature, social justice and environmental justice, the rights of indigenous peoples and universalism.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, india is a democracy, the largest democracy in the world in terms of population. his government and his prime minister have been elected and re-elected. commissioner, you have said some very reassuring words: yes, we must have a partnership with india; yes, we must have a partnership with the united states; yes, we must have a partnership with the united states. and yes, most importantly, this law is currently in the midst of a democratic process. india has a supreme court to decide on the validity of this law, and i welcome the fact that our resolution has been postponed. indeed, how would this vote have been interpreted in india? if we had voted against this law, it would have been as if the supreme court had been influenced by the european union. no, i think that this vote should have been postponed and i think above all that we do not have to decide on this law: it is the sovereignty of the states to choose their nationals. as the epp speaker said, there is in fact no change for a part of the population. there is, if you will allow me the british expression, a fast track that is created for some. in france, there is a fast track on nationality that is created for certain nationals who come from countries that have shared our history at one time or who speak french. i don't think there's any persecution of anyone in this country and under this law. finally, how can we not see the hand of pakistan behind this media campaign against india? pakistan, which, as i have said, does not respect any international agreement and which we continue to grant gsp+ status. pakistan, where the christian minority is threatened. so let each state choose who can have its citizenship. india is hosting thousands, if not millions, of refugees. in my opinion, it is the countries from which these refugees come that are to blame and not india which is hosting them.
madam president, madam commissioner, if this situation is keeping you up at night, then i ask you to find the conviction and energy to bring your friends from the commission and your friends from the council together to find immediate solutions. andrei makine said: "the images of childhood do not fade or fade". 18 000 people in the moria camp alone, with a capacity of 2840. 5,000 people waiting in vulnerability, but how can that be surprising since there are only three doctors and eight psychologists? the disparity between the number of women, men and children in care and the resources available create this violence, because by depriving them of everything you have turned them against each other. but these figures do not describe the desperation of the people on these islands. in the words of one child: "i am so stressed that i lose my memory, every time i close my eyes i have nightmares. all i want is to see my family again. madam president, greece is facing alone the influx of people seeking a better life and a little respite. the european union must take responsibility and, as a carer, when i hear these stories, when i see the isolation of these people, this european union revolts me. and tonight, madam president, i am not proud to be a member of this dehumanizing european union.
madam president, let me remind you of a simple truth: the cleanest energy is the energy we do not consume. you are right in suggesting that we should reduce transport pollution. but how can you not think that you are suffering from a kind of schizophrenia, because having noticed that the planet is suffocating with the development of transport, you are trying to implement a model based on free trade, nomadism, that is to say in practice the infinite development of transport, and we see in the world the ballet of supercargo trucks carrying goods and even waste. you do not speak of citizens, but only of consumers, reducing man to this consumerist function. it is this mercantilist conception of man that puts you in the middle of an ecological contradiction. we oppose globalism to localism, which invites us to produce, consume and recycle locally. to nomadism we oppose the happiness of living on his land with his affections and traditions, to your hyperconsumerism we oppose sobriety which, as pierre rabhi reminds us, can be a source of happiness. thank you.
in writing. the commission's proposals on mobility and transport to reduce co2 emissions by 2030 are very ambitious, but we must face reality. this is what i did last november when i visited the world's leading international trade fair for road and urban transport solutions, solutrans, in lyon, where i had the opportunity to exchange views with professionals in the road freight transport sector, the backbone of our economy. today, 98% of industrial vehicles sold in france run on diesel. a change of model will require the adoption of flagship measures. we must support companies in converting their fleets, whether to electricity, gas or hydrogen. it is necessary to invest in the development of charging infrastructure, to provide financial support to local authorities and individual entrepreneurs, to adapt the regulations on the maximum authorized weight for green vehicles, to promote the circulation of clean vehicles in urban areas, to promote the dynamic charging system, to encourage the long-distance charging project and, finally, to develop the training of new professions in this field. these are practical solutions!
madam president, on 23 november and 1 december 2019, floods of unexpected magnitude in my department, the var, caused several deaths and serious injuries, with significant physical and psychological damage. the storm caused hundreds of millions of euros in damage, on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the malpasset dam disaster, which killed 423 people. we know the var is a high-risk area. unfortunately, the flood prevention action programme, the famous ippc, has always remained at the stage of words and ideas and has never been translated into concrete actions. in view of this scandalous inaction on the part of the french government, i therefore believe that the time has come to immediately mobilise the european union's solidarity fund in order to carry out the necessary work to secure the territory and protect the population from these natural disasters.
madam president, i would like to know to which article of the specific regulation you are referring in order to be able to interrupt my colleagues.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, this week marks a turning point in the history of the european union with the departure of the united kingdom. the worst thing would be to learn nothing from this and continue as before, without realising the gradual distance between the european union and the european peoples. this challenge should guide your work programme for 2020 and, for this, let us listen directly to the voice of european citizens. i wanted to tell you about leah, who i met at a civil disobedience action on climate, who hopes for a total break with the economic model that is destroying our planet. the ambition of a climate law might have reassured her, but what a surprise she will be when she discovers that your green pact is pursuing the dogma of growth at any cost, without questioning its impact on the climate. leah, like all the young people mobilized for the climate, demands consistency. imagine his incomprehension of the agro-industrial products that flood his supermarket and are financed by the common agricultural policy. imagine his anger, too, at the multitude of free trade agreements the european union still plans to sign. instead, léa hoped that the european union would encourage trade in products that hadn't travelled around the world three times before arriving in her basket. but the border tax has disappeared from your 2020 priorities. leah wants a real green new deal, social and ecological, and that requires means. your revision of the european semester should give the states the financial leverage to invest in the ecological transition. i also wanted to tell you about marie, the nurse who's been on strike for months to defend our dying public hospitals and mobilized against the breakdown of our pension system. marie, on the other hand, does not understand why the european union has encouraged the privatisation of our public services and social protection throughout europe. pierre worked for the castorama company, but lost his job and moved to poland because the cost of labour was cheaper there. pierre is angry at this social competition and will not be satisfied with a european minimum wage at a discount that refuses social harmonization from above. kevin, also a bike deliveryman, needs european regulation of platforms to stop the exploitation of uberised workers. it is outrageous that nothing has been done for years. léa, marie, pierre and kevin also do not understand why their taxes are increasing when multinationals have stopped paying them and can no longer see the influence of lobbies on european decision-makers. but no matter how much i searched your work schedule, there was no sign of the ethical oversight authority you promised. listen to these anger, these expectations, these hopes, too, and act. if you are not doing it for our group of the european united left or for the members of parliament here in this house, then do it for léa, marie, pierre, kevin and so many other european citizens who will not forgive you if you persist in continuing this year the same recipes that are responsible for the climate crisis and the explosion of inequalities.
madam president, if i now raise the french flag, it is certainly not to pay tribute to this assembly or to concede defeat, but to have the opportunity to address the commission and my colleagues and to set a date. today, as you know, nothing in the rules of procedure of our assembly prohibits the presence of this flag, which is protected by the french constitution in article 2 and by legislation. but this tricolor flag embodies everything that this commission and this project of the european union has come to hate today. you hate the nations as much as you hate the people. alexander solzhenitsyn warned us long ago that 'the european union is full of the seeds of totalitarianism'. he knew what he was talking about. yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we all listened with emotion to mrs segre. and when we were commemorating the liberation of the auschwitz camp, she told us how she felt about entering this european parliament. on two occasions she explained how moved she was to see all these flags, flags of nations, together. she was not particularly moved by the european flag. listen to this, listen to this! your project is collapsing, the people can't stand the bureaucracy that is gagging them. and in the face of the people, you must yield. on friday, the british leave the european union. you've managed to disgust them. this european project was a beautiful project. history will judge you and it will be severe: fear that this first departure will be a huge breach in the totalitarian wall that you are building.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for this work programme which is a direct response to the ambitious speech by mrs von der leyen, which we support. i would like to return to one of the strong statements made by the president, which concerns parliament's right of initiative. the corollary of this right is knowledge, information and statistics. as a newly elected member of the european parliament, i am surprised that we sometimes receive information too late and sometimes not at all. here are two examples. a technical example first: the commission's abac system, i.e. the register of all expenditure on european programmes, is still not accessible to the european parliament, even though we are one of the two budgetary branches. look for the mistake. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-way street. these are valuable figures to demonstrate the positive influence of european integration and they are sensitive figures when we know the positions of certain member states, particularly the more frugal ones, in the context of the current negotiations on the next multiannual budget. we are pursuing the same objective, commissioner. parliament is a partner to be reckoned with, as you know. that is why i am asking you today to ensure that the commission will commit itself to providing members with all the information they need. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 171 (8))
the answer is 'blue card'. i'm sorry, i didn't get that. i take note of what you say, madam, dear colleague.
madam president, i therefore voted in favour of this text to send a strong message to the commission. for 10 years the commission has been discussing, talking... she has to act. it cannot now be content with the goodwill of the digital industry. i regret, however, that something is missing from this text. there is no mention of the digital lobbies which have put pressure on the commission and caused it to be inert. the universal charger is an ecological, social and it is the simplest measure today to reduce our electronic waste. if we cannot act to put in place the universal charger, how can we act for the planet and the ecological emergency? so if the commission wants to go green, it should act concretely and immediately to propose binding measures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is necessary because it recalls the structural economic inequality between women and men. within the european union, the wage gap reaches 40% when employment and overall labour market participation rates are included. this inequality also exists in the field of pensions: women's pensions are 37% lower than men's. but at the moment when we are voting on this resolution, there is an offensive in europe against our pension systems, led by the european commission. in france, despite the majority opposition of the people, president macron wants to impose his retirement by points. women will be the first victims. in sweden, their pensions have fallen by 90% since the introduction of such a system. i therefore send a message of support from this house to the french people who have been struggling for two months and i tell them that our delegation will fight wherever possible to get this bad project withdrawn.
madam president, we have just voted on a text on equal pay for men and women and this text tells us that the pension gap between men and women in the european union is 37%. what is also interesting about this text is that it calls on the member states to guarantee women a decent minimum pension to reduce these pension gaps. it so happens that in my country, france, president macron is doing exactly the opposite with his reform of the pension system. in his project, women are the big losers, in particular because the pauses women take in their careers, due to the fact that they have children and have to stop as a result, and the fact that they suffer from the part-time work imposed, mean that women will not have the number of points necessary to have the right to a decent pension. so, from this house, i would like, if i may, to appeal to the french president: mr macron, you have two options today. either you continue to be the good, zealous pupil of the european commission, which is demanding the dismantling of our system of pension sharing, or you listen to this parliament, which is the only democratically elected body of the european union. i would, of course, recommend the second option. you're gonna have to drop this pension reform bill.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a point of order on the basis of rule 125 and annex 7 to which it refers. since 1 january, the members of the european commission have been outlawed, but no one seems to care. article 3 of the code of conduct of commissioners requires them to publish their updated declaration of financial interests on 1 january each year, but none of them has done so. this is not an anecdotal omission. several months ago, our parliament demanded that several commissioners resign from their boards and sell shares that were in conflict with their duties. however, if you look at the online tax return for the commissioner responsible for digital taxation, it still says, for example, that he owns more than €100,000 of shares in amazon. to fail to provide evidence that this and other commitments have been honoured is to cast an unacceptable doubt on the commission's independence. i would therefore ask you, madam president, to demand that the european commission comply with this obligation to publish declarations of financial interests and that it prioritise, once and for all, ethics over money.
colleagues, we are dealing with points of order, and while that is important information, it is a political statement. are there any further points of order? if that is not the case, we will move to changes to the agenda. there are a number of requests for changes, so please bear with me in terms of the detail.
the final draft agenda as drawn up pursuant to rule 157 by the conference of presidents at its meeting of thursday, 6 february has been distributed. the following changes have been proposed: monday: no request for change tuesday the id group has asked for a debate on council and commission statements on the freedom of speech in the face of the rise of religious fundamentalism. they want this added as the fifth item in the afternoon of tuesday, 11 february after the debate on the oral question on the new comprehensive eu-africa strategy.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, our request is motivated by a case now known in france as the mila case, named after a young girl who dared to criticize islam. the 16-year-old has been subjected to a barrage of death threats, rape calls and sexist abuse for insulting islam in a video posted on instagram. if his words were closer to vulgar rap lyrics than to the prose of victor hugo, it is nevertheless that they fall under the freedom of expression, the freedom to criticize a religion. under no circumstances can such statements justify death threats. very few voices have been raised in france to defend mila. for the dominant doxa, everything is criticable, one can make fun of everything, except islam. some are ready to reinstate blasphemy in france, but only if it applies to islam. this story illustrates, once again, the intellectual inconsistency and cowardice of our so-called elites. we reject this submission to an islamist leftism, to a communitarianism that has taken root in our country, to a great cowardice that makes politicians no longer want to impose a way of life, an identity, a history on the french. not all religious fundamentalism leads to terrorism. today, it is in the name of radical islam that people are murdered. the charlie hebdo attacks were a tragic reminder of this.
madam president, of course we must defend freedom of expression, and what is happening in france is a striking sign of this. my proposal is not against this debate, but simply to say that i believe we must place it in a wider context. we have a debate on wednesday on the fight against anti-semitism, racism and hatred in europe, and our group would like to propose that the defence of freedom of expression which we must collectively ensure be included in this more general debate on the fight against hatred.
i will put the request for the modification of the agenda for tuesday to the vote by roll-call vote. this is the id proposal. can i just be very clear that you know what you are voting on: this is the proposal from our id colleagues to change the agenda on tuesday and to have a commission statement on freedom of speech. is everyone clear? i shall halt the vote because there seems to be some confusion in the chamber. the id group has proposed an amendment for tuesday’s agenda, of which i have spoken. mr bellamy, as i understood, you want this to be included in an item that is already on the agenda. please can you clarify because i think that is necessary.
our proposal would be, if all our colleagues accept it, to vote instead on this proposal to include the question of freedom of expression in the debate on wednesday.
mr rivière, do you accept that proposal?
if it is clear that in this week's debate we will have a debate on freedom of expression in the face of the rise of religious fundamentalism, then yes, we accept.
if mr bellamy's proposal had been accepted, we would have complied, we would have withdrawn our request at that time. if it is rejected, we want our request to be put to the vote.
the renew group has asked that a debate on council and commission statements on the breach of council decision 2017/2074 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in venezuela – illegal entry on the territory of an eu member state of a person included in the list of sanctions be added as the second item in the afternoon after the debate on the mavrides report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think it is acceptable that we should use this house as a trench to attack the spanish government without cause, because your request, mr cañas, is only in partisan interests and i believe that opposition is made in congress and not in this house. that said, the spanish government has reiterated, from the outset, its commitment to the european line on venezuela. we want a negotiated, agreed exit with free and fair elections. and i just want to remind you that it is the commission which has repeatedly stated that the sanctions agreed in the council are applied by the member states. i do not see what parliament can do about this situation, it is its own interests, partisan interests - i have already said that. that's why we're against it.
we are dealing here with two groups with proposals in relation to vietnam. the greens/efa group has asked that the consent vote on the conclusion of the eu-vietnam free trade agreement and the vote on the accompanying resolution be postponed to a future part-session. the gue/ngl group has asked that the consent vote also on the conclusion of the eu-vietnam free trade agreement and the vote on the accompanying resolution [and that the consent vote on the conclusion of the eu-vietnam investment protection agreement and the vote on the accompanying resolution] be taken off the agenda.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we are asking for a postponement of the vote because the text on both the free trade agreement and the investment protection agreement clearly runs counter to what we voted a few weeks ago on both the climate emergency and the european green deal. it is an agreement whose chapter on sustainable development, in particular, is neither binding nor enforceable. so there is a double language of the european union which is problematic. but i would also like all colleagues, whatever their political sensibilities, to hear what the european trade union confederation and a very large number of ngos - almost 100 european ngos - are telling us about the state of labour law, trade union freedoms and human rights in vietnam today. we cannot be satisfied with vague promises from the vietnamese government. today we need guarantees, we need proof, we need something tangible, something concrete. we have not, and that is why we are asking for the vote to be postponed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the european parliament has been calling in our green deal resolution – not long ago, actually, this year – for binding and enforceable sustainable development chapters. also, the commission, which was just recently elected, has been saying that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) are a key part of their agenda. this is the first free trade agreement (fta) that will come with the commission’s mandate. however, the fta was negotiated without such a commitment before parliament asked, in january, for this binding trade and sustainable development chapter. also in january, this house voted on a report calling for streamlining human rights into all its policies. however, unfortunately, they’re not being streamlined into the fta with vietnam, because we have seen a lot of human rights violations – also just recently with the crackdown of a peaceful protest in january – and we’ve been asking for a firm and sanctionable commitment from the vietnamese government to improving the human rights situation. nothing of this sort has been done, and that’s why we think this needs further commitment, from both the commission and the vietnamese government. therefore, we ask to postpone the vote on the four reports in total. (applause)
the epp group has asked that a debate on an oral question on ‘better internet for children’ be added in the afternoon.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to ask to add to our agenda the oral question to the commission about better internet for children. it is important that 11 february is safer internet day, which was initiated by the commission in 2004. what we really need is activity to promote the safe access of children to the internet. so that’s why i think my colleagues will share the view that we need this kind of debate, not only among us politicians. it is also important for teachers and educators, so this is why maybe we can use the opportunity of safer internet day to have this debate.
the greens/efa group has asked that a commission statement on the intervention of four member states regarding the revision of the eu-competition policy be added as the sixth item in the afternoon.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 february four member states - france, germany, italy and poland - wrote an open letter to the commission in which they strongly urged commissioner vestager to make a thorough review of competition policy, which, i would remind you, is under european law the exclusive competence of the european commission, which has quasi-judicial competence in this area. i think it is absolutely crucial that this parliament can take a decision on this letter. of course, any political leader is free to hold whatever views he or she wishes. nevertheless, i think that the tone of the letter and its almost comminatory character justify a debate in this parliament in the presence of commissioner vestager. i therefore propose that we hold this debate on wednesday.
madam president, i think mr lamberts is quite right that this parliament has to take a stand on competition policy, on that letter and on other debates on the revision of the state aid rules. but i think it must be done through the official channels, and next week the committee on economic and monetary affairs will vote on the annual report on competition policy, and we are just a few days away from closing the negotiations so that we can vote on that report next tuesday - which will have to be validated in the next plenary session. i therefore see no reason to bring the debate forward to this week, when the negotiating teams of the econ committee are working to be able to vote on a compromise text next week - as i say in committee.
the gue/ngl group has asked that a commission statement on the ‘eu-us trade relations’ be added as the first item in the morning. therefore, the sitting would start at 9.00.
the european commission is seeking to conclude a free trade agreement with the trump administration in a few weeks' time. the european commission is negotiating with the united states on free trade in chlorinated chicken, hormone meat, monsanto's genetically modified crops and more pesticides. the authorisation of these products undermines our animal welfare, environmental and health rules and is detrimental to european farmers. brussels also negotiates without the consent of the member states: the council has not given a mandate to negotiate with the united states on agricultural products. moreover, this parliament has made compliance with the paris climate agreement an absolute condition for future trade agreements. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is not concerned about this. i therefore ask for your support for an urgent debate on the state of play of the trade negotiations between europe and the united states.
madam president, we, of course, are all concerned about our ongoing relations with the united states. we have to watch them very closely, but we have to do it the right way. that’s why we have invited commissioner phil hogan next week to the committee on international trade (inta). this work should firstly be done by the committees. afterwards, we will of course have a debate in plenary, but first let the committees do their work as they should.
the epp group has asked that a debate on the oral question to the commission’s ‘farm to fork strategy – the key role of farmers and rural areas’ be added as the first item in the morning on thursday, 13 february 2020. i need to tell you that this means that the sitting would start at 9.00.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the strategy 'from the court to the table' is due to be presented by the european commission in mid- to late march. the strategy is aimed above all at our agriculture and our rural areas, whose concerns deserve to be heard. the epp therefore considers it essential that the central role of agriculture and rural areas be discussed before the strategy is published. only in this way can important issues of the european parliament such as financing, competitiveness and the link with the common agricultural policy be incorporated into the strategy. the epp group therefore requests that the agenda be amended in accordance with rule 158 to include the oral question on the subject 'from the court on the table' back on the agenda for this part-session.
the last proposal for a change to the agenda on thursday is from the renew group, and they have asked that the debate on the ‘human rights dimension of the coronavirus outbreak’ be taken off the agenda.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the outbreak of the coronavirus is a very serious matter, but for the renew group, this is not the right topic for an emergency resolution. urgencies are there exclusively to say something. if there is an act of human rights violations, for example. also, the situation is still developing very rapidly, so it’s very difficult to come forward with concrete conclusions. also, we risk, then, ending up with a very patronising stance, while we should focus much more on, for example, coordinating with other countries to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. i would like to ask you to withdraw this topic from the urgencies.
madam president, i will pick up on the last words of mr huitema, who said that there is concern and that, given the fact that developments are going so quickly and citizens are concerned, we might actually need a wider debate on this issue than just to take it off the agenda as an urgency. my concrete proposal, given the fact that developments, both in the area and in the eu, in terms of concern among our citizens, are going so quickly, i would propose to have a full—blown debate, without resolution, on the topic ‘coronavirus: ensuring fundamental rights and a coordinated european response’, on wednesday afternoon, by the way.
we were talking about thursday. so this is a proposal to move it back to wednesday afternoon. i shall ask mr huitema how he would react to that proposal.
madam president, that would be an excellent idea. let’s do that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to article 3 (5) and (6) of the treaty on european union and to rule 158 of our rules of procedure, i would like to inform the house of the very serious situation facing patrick george zaki, an egyptian student who has been attending the gemma master's programme in gender studies in bologna since september thanks to erasmus mundus. a researcher, an activist who has dedicated his life to rights, equality and solidarity and to criticizing the denial of human rights in his country. he landed in cairo on friday night to visit his family, disappeared and reappeared the next day 120 kilometers from the capital, with obvious signs of physical abuse and violence, in a courtroom of the egyptian attorney general's office, arrested and accused of criticizing the government through social media. patrick was treated the same way as giulio regeni, a case that the young egyptian paid for, by the way. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states and to give us an opportunity to discuss the matter with the commission. i have not been able to collect...
mr castaldo, i shouldn’t have to explain to you the rules of the house. an important point was raised, but it would be a one-minute speech, not a point of order.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission communication on the review of the economic governance (2020/2553(rsp)). i would like to remind you that catch-the-eye and the blue-card requests can be presented either by using the consolidated way of registration or the electronic system. you will get the instructions in case you need them from the entrance of the hemicycle.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you and the members for the opportunity to present here the communication that we adopted exactly five days ago. in this way, the european parliament will trigger the debate on our six— and two—pack reforms and, in general, our economic governance rules. i think that the targets of this debate are very clear. we have, on the one side, to preserve our stability and nobody should discuss this. on the other side, we have to relaunch our growth and nobody should ignore this. the commission’s communication gives a clear and honest assessment on the functioning of these rules in the last ten years. the rules were created as a response to a deep economic and financial crisis and, after ten years, i think we can give a clear picture of how these rules have been functioning. i think we had good results, first of all, in better coordination of fiscal policies, both on timing and on their content, among member states, through the semester and the whole surveillance process. second, we were able to reduce our deficit—to—gdp ratio. i remember that in 2011, only three countries were respecting the rules on deficit—to—gdp. in the last assessment, not a single country was not respecting these rules. third, i should say that all member states that received financial assistance were able to return to the market, with enormous difficulties from a social point of view, but they have, at least, returned to the market. after good results, we have also had mixed results in our ten years’ functioning. first of all, i would say, on the reduction of debt, yes, debt was reduced from an average of 90% to an average of 80%, and this could be a satisfactory level if we consider other global economic players. the united states has 115% debt and japan has 240% debt. but we know that, in this average reduction, we were not able to reduce high debt in several countries, so the discussion is still open. there were also mixed results because of the complexity of these rules. complexity could also be an intelligent way to deal with problems but, if complexity is too complicated, in the end, it reduces ownership and confidence from member states and stakeholders towards our rules. finally, we had clear shortcomings, first of all, because we were reducing our public investments. our public investments are not yet at the level they were 20 years ago. second, because we were not able to reduce surpluses in countries with a high level of surpluses, and, third, because, in general, we had pro—cyclical fiscal policies during this period and monetary policy is now at its lower bound. if we are not able to have anti—cyclical policies, this creates constraints in our general economic situation. so, good results, mixed results and shortcomings. what next? i think we live in a very different economic world from the one from ten years ago. we were able to overcome the deep crisis and we had several years of stable growth in all member states. we have now been in a period of slower growth for a couple of years. the picture for the next months, and perhaps a few years, is characterised by uncertainty, uncertainty for internal reasons – i think we all saw the bad results in the last quarter of last year in some important european economies – and uncertainty due to external factors: trade relations that are not solved, brexit, which is an open debate, and the consequences of the coronavirus. it is obviously too early to assess them, but for sure they contribute to this uncertainty. in these uncertain times, i think we need a framework capable of avoiding what economists call a ‘low for long’ situation: a long situation of low growth, low inflation, low interest rate. this could be inconsistent with the strategy that we have in the green transition and in the digital transition. for this reason, the debate we are opening is very important, and we will define the scope and the conclusions of this debate during the next months in this process. in conclusion, i would particularly underline two key words. one is ‘investments’. we have to find ways to facilitate investments, especially those connected to the strategy of the green deal, which president von der leyen rightly calls our new growth strategy. second is ‘simplification’. to promote simplification of these rules is also to promote their ownership. i think that to facilitate investment and make our rules simpler is something that should not divide our discussion into different camps, but is something on which we should work together to find a solution.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european commission's communication on the stability and growth pact contains many wise and also correct observations on the question of what is not working properly in the stability and growth pact. the rules are very complex, they are opaque, they are sometimes procyclical in their effects, and they have, even in good times - you said we had a growth phase behind us - not contributed to the reduction of deficits and total debt to a sufficient extent. the conclusions drawn by the commission in its guiding questions and comments for the consultation on these findings have, however, relatively little to do with the problems described. the stability and growth pact has no flexibility problem, since the last commission already extended flexibilities, which is only possible; the stability and growth pact has an implementation problem. the rules do not need to be made more flexible, but they do need to be applied! and if we want to tackle the problem of excessive debt effectively, then of course it does no good to exclude certain types of expenditure from the debt rules, it will actually have the opposite effect. let me be clear: debt is debt. any new debt affects the debt sustainability of a country, whether it has been used to finance sustainable investment or not. and the question of whether debts can be serviced and repaid is, in the end, the only question that interests the financial markets, namely those that lend money to the member states. before the financial markets turn off the faucet, they will not ask whether or not there has been sustainable financing and investment. i can therefore only strongly warn against classifying green government expenditure as good government expenditure. if we start doing that, the path to the next debt trap is preprogrammed.
madam president, welcome commissioner, in the euro area we have 19 different fiscal policies; 19 governments draw up their budgets in an attempt to comply with the stability and growth pact. but if you consolidate those 19 policies, looking at what the fiscal position is in the euro area as a whole, the result may or may not be consistent with the needs of monetary union, with the cyclical needs of monetary union. and that is why we need to reform the stability and growth pact. it is not just - but also - about improving flexibility so that national governments can make countercyclical policies, but it is above all about providing the euro area with a consolidated fiscal position in line with the needs of our economy's cycle. and that's what we need to focus on in the next few months.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we are trying to do with this pact is to ensure a stable economy, a sound public financial policy. that is good for all european countries, including those countries which may not yet see it for themselves. there is a dutch proverb: good example is worth following. but that's not the case with this. several countries have not or insufficiently used the favourable economic times to implement reforms and reduce budget deficits. i would therefore like to make a few points for that review. first of all, i believe that the effectiveness of the budgetary rules and the credibility of the european commission depend on the transparency and the ability to enforce them. secondly, the rules should be simplified and made less complex. the revision should provide sufficient guarantees for countercyclical fiscal policies. thirdly, the rules must not be made more flexible or interpreted more broadly, as far as i am concerned. a deal is a deal. i am therefore very critical of the european committee on budgets' proposal to exclude investment from the scope of the pact. that, to me, is an open invitation to a kind of creative accounting that has already led to quite a bit of drama. finally, a european stabilisation function is really unnecessary. i think that the member states themselves must take the shock. that is why each member state must keep its own house in order. well-functioning capital markets would also help to absorb those very external shocks. so i want to say to you: let us speed up the development of the european capital markets union.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, thank you, commissioner, the rules have been applied in recent years and have been dogmatic, inefficient. they have contributed to worsening things in the eurozone and they must be reviewed. i share some of the reflections you make in your communication: they are complex, they are procyclical. i would also add that they are based in some cases on unobservable elements such as the famous 'output gap' which is totally unobservable and on which we base the whole path of consolidating national budgets. so we need to somehow address this debate and i welcome the commission doing so even though i think we should go much further. i want to ask you two things, inspector. the first is that we should not be afraid, even though we know that we will encounter a wall in the council, to open certain debates like this; we should be courageous, we should put the council itself in front of the mirror. and the second: you are going to have to make an intelligent application of the rules if we want the green deal to be a reality, because there will be no green deal with a strict application of these rules - we all know that - so that second part is also in your hands and it is going to be important that you do it.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, for three months now, the french have been protesting in the streets, singing and dancing, against the pension reform. for three months they have been fighting against a reform that would make them work longer hours for a small pension. this reform does not come out of nowhere, it is directly inspired by the recommendations of the european commission and its budgetary control procedure. i have here the recommendations made by the european commission to france, and it is written in black and white, page 6: the reform of the pension system could alleviate the public debt. understand: we must save money on our pension system - and that is exactly the ambition of the french system. but the commission does not stop there. page 5 reads: the reduction in public debt will depend on the government's ability to meet the expenditure targets set for the pension system. understand: public health is too expensive. the result: 17,500 beds closed in six years and nurses on strike for a year, crying out in despair at the abandonment of the public hospital. in the commission's recommendations, this is the case for all our public services: social protection, the minimum wage level... savings, more savings, more savings. and of course, tax cuts for the richest and the biggest corporations. this is exactly what the french government of emmanuel macron is zealously pursuing. the whole procedure of the european semester is based on one objective: the sacred and holy 3% deficit limit - a rule that was once set on a table corner, which has no economic basis and is criticized even by the most liberal economists. the european commission is now questioning the relevance of these rules. it's about time! but if the revision is limited to integrating the un's sustainable development goals, as it seems to be, then it is as good as pissing in a violin. the whole architecture of european economic governance needs to be reviewed to respond to the two challenges of our time: the inequality crisis and the climate crisis. this revision of the european semester cannot be cosmetic, because austerity will never be ecological or social.
madam president, first of all, i thank the commission for the good piece of work it has presented to us. i believe that the last big changes to the fiscal framework are fully justified to reverse unsustainable fiscal policies in many member states. the changes that took place have helped the countries to reform economic policy and have brought the fiscal policy in the eu and the euro area closer to a sustainable path. but the mission is far from completed, because this is permanent work to perform just, responsible and sustainable fiscal policy. the member states should find good policies and the funds to promote the policies of the priorities, like the green deal. but at the same time, i am sure that increasing debt is not the right source of funding for these policies. ultimately, after the consultation, i am open both to changes as well as to confirmation of the current set—up of the fiscal framework, depending on the result.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. many critics of the system of economic governance call it a straitjacket of the euro. why would you do that? because it leaves the member states little room for manoeuvre, because it forces the member states to save in a way that threatens to suffocate them. as a key tool for economic governance, fiscal policy has an important role to play in ensuring a balanced, prosperity-oriented economic policy, and any future reorientation of economic governance must therefore be primarily geared to social progress and the strengthening of social and environmental infrastructure. in the fight against climate change, but also for digital transformation, we need more european union to have a coordinated investment offensive across europe, and we need more state for public investment. the definition of net borrowing, the definition of net deficit, must be designed to take account of the golden rule, that is, expenditure excluding public investment.
i have to say, madam president, a common currency requires common budgetary rules. but let 's not kid ourselves: the reformed stability and growth pact has neither made the necessary coordination of public expenditure mandatory nor has it made public expenditure more forward-looking. the rules are so complex that even financial nerds like me can barely understand them. this complexity gives the eu commission too much leeway in applying the rules. this has turned the rulebook into a political tool that has had little effect in the long run. worse still, european fiscal rules have led to widespread underinvestment in our public goods. education, railways, the internet -- they all suffer. between 2009 and 2018, the government investment ratio actually fell from 3,7% to 2,9%. we need investment-friendly budgetary rules, and we can achieve this by means of a depreciation system which favours all investment. exceptions to the fiscal rules for green or digital investments alone, as you have proposed, will not solve the problem. because we have the same problems with education, housing and health. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. understandable fiscal rules are also strong fiscal rules that can be implemented.
madam president, mr gentiloni, a former commissioner and former prime minister of your country of italy, mr pronti, called the stability pact 'stupid'. you were prime minister of italy before you became commissioner. we need serious change, not just talk about change. because we need to boost investment. because along with the simplification you mentioned, you need flexibility. how can we reduce the enormous social and regional disparities if we do not combine sustainable development with secure public finances? is it possible to implement the green deal with this absurd chest of the stability pact, as it has been implemented for ten years? and why has the commission been strict only with countries with excessive deficits and done nothing about countries with excessive surpluses and breaking the rules? these are the questions we want answered.
madam president, i agree with mr gentiloni that we must do everything we can to increase public investment. i think we're playing by the rules. for example, if you compare, the public finances of european countries are much more stringent than the united kingdom or the united states - because i suppose that's the kind of comparisons we have to make in a modern and competitive world. i also think we have achieved a great deal. as a greek, i can tell you that if, in 2012 or 2015, we said that greece in 2020 would borrow on such good terms and with the ten-year bond at 1.1-1.2%, no one would believe us. so i don't see us losing control. we haven't lost any control. but precisely because we have control and because we have succeeded - at great social cost, of course - we must organize an investment drive. there's no other way.
madam president, minus 0.25% for the cac 40, minus 0.5% for the nasdaq. every morning in the news we are bombarded with figures that are meant to make us believe that they are a sign of good or bad economic health. three per cent deficit, 60 per cent debt, again, these figures are made into a golden rule, supposedly to show the good health of our economies. but when will we finally look at other figures which are much more important for our common future? the number of degrees of warming, the cost of climate change, the cost of social distress, for example. etymologically, "economy" means "the art of managing a house well" and our house is burning. so a healthy economy is one that does everything it can to put out the fire. a responsible economy is one that encourages the transition to carbon neutrality by, for example, taking green investments out of the public deficit calculation. that is why i ask you, ladies and gentlemen: let us take advantage of the announced revision of the european budgetary framework to move beyond the dogma of austerity and respond to the climate emergency. this is the greatest challenge of this world: let us set rules that do not lead us straight into the wall, but allow us to preserve life in our common home. it's up to us.
madam president, it was time: the enlargement debate had finally emerged from the bureaucratic rut in which it had been locked. enlarging our union is a political choice. it must be assumed as such, both by the candidate countries and by the european union. i welcome the commission's proposal, which introduces clarity, progressiveness and greater responsibility for the enlargement process. if progress is made, we must take it into account. if there are setbacks, there must also be consequences. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the rule of law along the path towards accession to our union. the rule of law is not a square that we mark on a paper that we sign, it is the heart of what brings us together. we already have too many opponents of freedom in our union and we do not want to bring in more. we will not be satisfied with declarations of intent, announced or adopted reforms on paper. what matters is the concrete, daily reality of defending our fundamental values. finally, i would like to warn us that if the european union is to expand, it must be able to reform itself. we can't welcome new members into a house that's in disarray; as we've been saying for a long time, it's time to act. the conference on the future of europe gives us this opportunity, let us seize it.
madam president, the commission is proposing a new method to deal with the problems of new accessions, particularly those of the western balkans. a new method of enlargement, which involves replacing 35 chapters with six negotiating themes. the commission considers these accessions to be key priorities of its mandate. it is not the choice of the people. at the zagreb summit, the commission, deaf to previous refusals, will again propose to open accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia. it also intends to promote a broad investment plan for the western balkans. the commission therefore recommends grouping the 35 chapters into six thematic clusters. it is surprising that clusters do not address issues such as security, terrorism, illegal immigration, posted workers - all essential issues that are relegated to the background. on the method, this grouping of chapters can only strengthen the commission's power. the council has so far decided unanimously on the opening, closing or freezing of the 35 chapters. with the grouping into six clusters, the council will be less involved and marginalised in the enlargement process. finally, the commission wants to take the lead with the investment plan for the western balkans as a whole. the people expressed their wish to put an end to these successive waves of integration by voting in may. the united kingdom has chosen to leave us. you have destroyed the european project. we cannot accept the constant strengthening of this europeanist, uncontrolled, technocratic power. we must stop enlargement, stop dissolving countries into a large technocratic ensemble, the trojan horse of globalisation. the coronavirus exposing our countries that, on your advice, have moved everything, including their health security, is the end of this political madness.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, antoine de saint-exupéry said: 'the eyes are blind, we must look with the heart'. today, in our search on the internet, in our daily life, robots, algorithms are scanning our activity, analyzing us. this is called profiling. two hours on the internet, and we're offered a trip, a husband and a new car. these automated treatments, can we trust them? is the price the normal price? is our data protected? are our thoughts and desires to be exploited in a virtual world? it is therefore essential that the criteria and algorithms used by the applications that help us, marry us or follow us to work are transparent and controlled. we can either trust too much or not enough in an automated system. unfortunate accidents caused by autonomous vehicles can be considered cases of over-reliance. tomorrow we will see more and more driverless lorries on our roads and if there is an accident, who will be held responsible? who will pay for it? the consumer must always be the ultimate responsible party and be able to override the automated decisions made by computers or robots. as regards the text proposed, this resolution misses a crucial point: it says nothing about the concentration of data within a few non-european companies and our necessary emancipation in this area. we do not believe that consumers have been sufficiently protected against the damage caused by defective products by the brussels directives. as you know, for more than 30 years, companies have been inserting disclaimers in their contracts in tiny letters. for all these reasons, we do not believe that it would be more effective for brussels to decide on the criteria for managing the risks of artificial intelligence, but we do believe in our french engineers.
mr president, commissioner, i have a few minutes, so i have a comment and a question. the point is that, for the first time in the history of our industrial revolutions, artificial intelligence was not thought out with its regulations and innovation came from the private sector, unlike the great industrial revolutions where the state had enormous control over the infrastructure and where the cost of building the infrastructure was high. the ai has therefore developed, which raises the question for us, the legislators, to go to the bottom of a legislation which, year after year, must be reviewed in accordance with the uses of this artificial intelligence. this is what, in my opinion, raises the question of trust, especially since the practices are developing, that, paradoxically, the public authorities are putting a lot of money into innovation and that, paradoxically, we are chasing regulation, behind the practices and the innovation. i would add on this point, because perhaps that is what is driving this european parliament resolution, that we need to find the balance between the competitiveness of our companies, public confidence in new technologies and our capacity to be forerunners, not followers, in globalisation. the white paper may answer some of these questions, and we obviously want to work with the commission on all of these points, but we expect to know more in the next few days and weeks.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this very rich debate, which clearly shows me that where you come from, you are all facing fairly similar problems concerning our smes, which constitute, as we said earlier, the most active economic fabric of our european continent. i would like to take up a few words which have been shared by all the members of this house: late payment; the commission has also proposed that the european union should provide a framework for the development of the european social model, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity. you all share, in effect, the same concerns. i shall try to answer quickly all the questions you have raised, many of which will of course form part of the plan we will be proposing for industrial policy, since it is true that the value chains on which a proper industrial policy is based must integrate, end to end, our entire sme fabric. first, a question on cost assessment, which is of course being discussed with my colleague, commissioner šefčovič. the guidelines already explain the methodology and the next communication 'better legislation' (which, i remind you, will be presented in april) develops precisely the one in, one out principle. above all, i would like to emphasise that what needs to be assessed is the cumulative cost. this is of course a matter for our impact analysis, but we must be clear: many of the burdens come from national legislation, as we all know. i have not yet decided on the sme commissioner, the exact framework is not yet set and i have several solutions, which i am considering today. one thing is certain: i would very much like to have this person close to me, with access, of course, to a specific team. at the same time, this person will have to be totally available on the ground, as i said earlier, to meet and listen to all the smes on the continent. moreover, once i have decided on the choice of the person, i shall come, if you agree, ladies and gentlemen, to present the architecture of this operation. late payment is an absolutely essential subject, which you have both talked about a lot. it's a subject i'm looking at closely, of course. it must be integrated into the full understanding of the value chain. there are, of course, delays in payment, and there is also the growing dependence of smes on larger contractors. all of this needs to be looked at very carefully. to make a quick point, some have mentioned that it is true that an arbitration solution can be interesting. we can examine it; i don't know if the mechanisms that were proposed can work. but it is a subject, indeed, that i have known myself. it is true that many smes do not dare to go to court because they know that it is too long, too expensive and that, in the end, it is to their detriment. arbitration procedures are therefore often interesting solutions, which i will examine. important point about over-regulation, or gold plating. we must be very careful about the fact, once again - i said it earlier, but i repeat it - that many of the burdens on smes come from national laws, especially when they transpose european directives. they must be identified and notified. so far only three countries are doing this, which is obviously very little, and i would like to do more on this point. i shall come back to you on that, but, indeed, we must move on this matter much more quickly. access to finance is an absolutely vital issue. it will be even more so in the context of digital transitions and the green deal, which was also the subject of much discussion in this debate. of course we have regional funds, but i would like to remind you of this because it is very important: cosme, with 30 billion mobilised to support 500 000 smes over seven years, is quite important. but also investeu, which guarantees loans and improves access to finance. the sme window is worth eur 11.2 billion, i.e. one third of the investeu guarantee facility. of course, this is not enough, but we still have important instruments for the development of our smes. a question about the sme filter: the existing sme test is part of the impact analysis, so it only comes into play at a certain point in the decision. but, as i have said, it does not influence the choice of the option supported in the impact assessment. the responsibility for the sme test is decentralised. the future sme filter is designed to intervene at all stages of the procedure, in order to identify proposals that could be barriers for smes. the aim is also to involve all the commission departments, in connection, of course, with the future sme envoy. very important remarks were also made on access to public contracts, to public procurement. this is obviously a very important leverage of 14% of the economy. it is therefore a lever that needs to be used more and i strongly agree that more should be done to enable smes to have privileged access to public procurement. when i talk about smes, this is also true for start-ups, so this is an area i am watching carefully, especially in relation to the legal framework for public procurement, to determine what more can be done and how. a final point, which i also mentioned a lot in my opening remarks, concerns the internal market. our smes must be able to benefit from this internal market. it's really something that's absolutely essential. as i said, today, unfortunately, it is clear that they often have to rely on one or two platforms, which are not, moreover, of european origin, and which become for them a kind of gate keepers for access to the internal market. it is really something that needs our full attention. we must therefore ensure that digital transformation enables our smes to find new markets, beyond their national borders. i also noted some interesting ideas about the need for our administrations to digitise, particularly with regard to the a1 form. this is an important subject. we've done it in many states for automated tax collection, which is much more complex, so we should be able to do it nationally. finally, a subject which has been the subject of much debate this evening: one in, one out. i would remind you that the principle must not be mechanical. we're looking very closely, of course, at what's going to be removed. it is not a question of using this instrument to deregulate, of course, let alone to compromise the protection of workers. it is simply a question of seeing what has changed. as we said earlier, we are in a world that is changing rapidly, not only because of the pressure of digital technology, but also because of the impetus we want to give our continent in the green deal. in this context, in a more geopolitical evolution of the power relations that bind us to other continents, it is something that must be looked at, and therefore must be modernized. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what i was able to say to you tonight, in conclusion of our work. i see there's a lot of interest. i therefore ask you to meet me for the presentation of our industrial strategy, which will, of course, be very much about smes.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union are facing challenges related to increased global competition, the emergence of new business models, digitalisation, climate change, the deployment of new technologies in both industry and services, and the development of the circular economy. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development cannot be achieved without smes, given their enormous importance for social, economic and environmental development. at the same time, they are essential for a just transition to a sustainable economy that creates jobs. efforts to bring other regions, communities together for a sustainable transition must be stepped up continuously so that no one is left behind. legal coherence and the provision of adequate financial resources will help to strengthen the commitment of all parts of society. governments and social partners can work together to provide business information and advice on green business practices, eco-innovation and regulatory systems. we need tools and mechanisms to ensure european smes a level playing field at european and global level, in particular for technologies of strategic importance to europe.
the next item is the joint debate on - the oral question to the commission on the revision of the guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure, by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000012/2020 - b98/-00020) (2020/2549(rsp), and - the objection under article 111 of the regulation: union list of projects of common interest (2019/2907 ((dea))
author. – mr president, the regulation on guidelines for trans—european energy infrastructure lays down rules for the timely development and interoperability of ten—e networks, identifying the trans-european energy infrastructure priorities which need to be implemented in order to meet the union’s energy and climate policy objectives. it also identifies projects of common interest needed to implement those priorities. the ten—e regulation sets priority corridors and thematic areas of trans—european energy infrastructure and provides guidelines for the selection of projects of common interest (pci). the first list of pcis was established by a delegated act in 2013. now we are on the fourth pci list, which was adopted by the commission on 31 october 2019 with 151 pcis. as reflected in parliament’s first reading position of 17 april 2019 on the proposal for a regulation on the connecting europe facility for the period 2021—2027, the co—legislators provisionally agreed that the commission should evaluate the effectiveness and policy coherence of the ten—e regulation. for that evaluation, i would like to remind you that the commission should consider inter alia the union energy and climate targets for 2030, the eu long—term decarbonisation commitment and energy efficiency as a first principle. i’d also like to stress that the ten—e regulation was adopted before the adoption of the paris agreement. energy plays a central role in the transition to a net—zero greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions economy, and therefore efforts to continue decarbonising the energy systems are necessary to enable the union to reach its ambitious target and be world leader, while at the same time ensuring a coherent and inclusive transition of other sectors, maintaining the security of energy supply in the union and coping with an increased demand for electricity. with the aim of achieving its climate and energy goals and enhancing innovation, sustainability and growth, it is at the same time very important to remain competitive worldwide. the union needs an up-to-date, high—performance energy infrastructure that is future-proof, cost-efficient and can provide a security of energy supply, including diversification of root sources and suppliers. priority corridor scenarios, as well as eligibility criteria, should follow the evolution of the energy system and continue to be consistent with union policy priorities, in particular in the context of long—term decarbonisation pathways. adequate infrastructure, deployment and energy efficiency projects and policies should be used in a complementary way to help reach the union’s objectives and targets. building on the success of the energy union, we need to strengthen our efforts to improve energy efficiency, speed up deployment of clean energy and technologies, increase interconnectivity, and also of course further integrate our energy single market. in its resolution of january on the european green deal, parliament called on the commission to revise the ten-e guidelines before the adoption of the next pci list. the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) welcomes the announcement in the european green deal communication that the revision of the ten—e guidelines will take place in 2020 and asks for a clear timetable. as regards the fourth pci list, new gas infrastructure under the fourth pci list is designed to last at least 40 to 50 years, and in some cases even longer. may i remind you that the very same infrastructure will be able to be used in not so many years from now to transport biogas and hydrogen, and also – during the transition phase – gas pipelines and interconnections, which play an important role in ensuring the energy security supply, affordability and sustainability. we need a balanced and realistic approach to achieve our common goal of carbon neutrality, and i would like to remind you that we still have 41 coal regions to support and sustain in a just and inclusive transition.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, something is wrong. the planet is dying, and report after report, experts are reminding us that we must abandon fossil fuels to stop climate change. yet, far from its environmental commitments and in total contradiction to its declarations of good faith, the union is about to declare a list of energy projects as a priority, of which more than one third are fossil gas projects. we are 103 today asking you to review the copy. this list is scientific nonsense, an economic mistake and, above all, a political mistake. it's scientific nonsense, because we've known for a long time that 84 percent of the fossil resources we know today should not be used. this is an economic mistake, because continuing to invest in extremely expensive fossil projects hampers our ability to get our investment efforts to where the need for funding is so great. no, really, something is wrong when the union wants to inject almost €29 billion into climate-killing projects. accepting this list would be a political mistake, because the list proposed to us is dangerous for the planet and therefore for the people who live on it. yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must review the ten-e guidelines and the criteria accompanying them as soon as possible, so that europe can never again invest in fossil fuels. but we already need a new list of projects excluding fossil fuels for the next two years. my dear colleagues, let us not mistake the meaning of history. in the aftermath of the war, europe was built around steel and coal and wanted to base peace on growth. we must now build europe around green industries and the phase-out of fossil fuels. our prosperity must necessarily combine sobriety and justice. ms simson, you could have you should have turned your back on this proposal from your predecessor and chosen to become the commissioner of the real green deal. dear colleagues, i know that many of you have doubts about this list. it is time to express them and to act accordingly. it is time to change the model to protect the future, it is time to dare to take strong action. i call on you this wednesday to choose the green deal, to choose ecology, to choose the future and to reject this list.
mr president, as one of the 17 meps who supported the veto against the 4th pci list during the last vote in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i can unequivocally confirm my intention to vote against this list again. after the many nice words and promises i heard on a greener future, it would be interesting to see the results of this objection, because we have to be clear: by allowing this 4th list, we would once again be in favour of a future made of fossil fuel. by allowing this list, we would spend billions of euros in investments that could become obsolete in the not-so-distant future. by allowing this list, we would go against the aspirations and dreams of thousands of young people who, in recent years, have taken to the streets in an awe—inspiring call for a better, greener future. we cannot just ignore that. we can’t answer passion with indifference and inaction. we can’t lose credibility. that’s why i confirm my firm support to this objection and against this 4th list of projects of common interest, which is nothing but a betrayal of the new generation, who want fewer words but real change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all want the energy revolution as soon as possible. the pci list therefore also contains proposals for the development of crossborder electricity networks. we're doing a wonderful job of building grid bottlenecks at the borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. but pci is also preparing the hydrogen age. we need to invest in gas grids and gas storage. we need gas as a bridge to the energy transition, especially in eastern europe. the transition from 80% coal to renewable energy, as in poland, is of course only possible with flexible gas power stations that ensure energy security. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the environment. the greens say: we do not invest in fossil fuels, we do not invest in gas, we reject the list. this is pure populism to get nice headlines in the greater mainstream. they know very well that an energy revolution only works with this list, with gas infrastructures, with new electricity grids. but you also know very well that this list will of course have a majority in the european parliament. you want to keep your nose clean, you want someone else to do the dirty work. we like to do that because we take sustainability and responsibility seriously.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that this list also contains critical points and, of course, legitimate doubts. however, we believe - at least in my own view and in the view of the members of itre and my group - that there is some balance in this list today and that it also takes account of sources which are undeniably useful in the transition phase. i would add that this is an indicative list, not all projects will be approved, and so if the priorities have changed, we can work within this list. it's not all gold. and then the prevailing view, and legally no one can dispute it, is that if we reject this list, the third list comes back into force which is undeniably worse, it is undeniably against environmental objectives. so the point now is to work so that in the next list there is first of all full involvement of parliament, madam commissioner, and above all to work, from now on until the resolution that will be presented in march, so that we can also in this timeframe take up all those elements that can not only change and perhaps revise the projects or put the most critical projects at the bottom of the priorities, but also decide how we must work so that in the next choices there is strict respect for the environmental objectives and the issues set by all our choices on transition and decarbonisation. but for these reasons we think it is wrong to reject, and i take the objection, this fourth list.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must develop our transfrontier energy networks to ensure that our citizens have access to energy that is safe, secure and sustainable. if we vote for the objection and therefore against the list, it is the 2017 list that will be active with 53 gas projects, compared to only 32 for the new one. this fourth list is not perfect, but it is a step in the right direction, that of the green pact. 98% of new projects are good projects, environmentally friendly. let's not block them. we also need to stop the populist psychodrama: no, gas infrastructure does not only transport fossil gas. tomorrow they will be transporting decarbonised hydrogen, biomethane and green gases. we need it. so yes to this list and let us improve the consultation and criteria together with the commission, with parliament, to draw up the fifth list for 2021 now, on the road to the green pact.
mr president, commissioner, let me tell you a story. it is the european commission's, which, driven by the mobilisation of young people for the climate, claimed to make the ecological emergency its priority. she wore a green robe and made many beautiful promises. she even gave them a nice name, the green deal, to show how serious she was. but the commission was in a very awkward position when the time came for decisions. increase emission reduction targets? let's not go too fast! the common agricultural policy? too late, the project is already finished! stop funding fossil fuels? another time, maybe. the commission proposed instead to support new gas projects. however, her studies were clear: a reduction in natural gas consumption was essential to reach carbon neutrality by 2050. but we shouldn't have bothered our friends in the gas lobby. this wednesday, our parliament can put an end to this sad fable. by voting against, you will refuse to finance anti-environmental projects and put an end to the commission's double-talk. let's finally be consistent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the french overseas departments, regions and communities of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, réunion, mayotte and saint martin, known here as the rup, must not be the victims of the future common agricultural policy. in 2018, the european commission proposed to reduce the posei budget by 3,9%. it is thanks to these overseas regions that consumers can enjoy many exotic products: bananas, rum and cane sugar. the agricultural and agri-food sectors in the overseas countries and territories must be given support. the prosperity of our farmers and their families, the sustainability of local agricultural production and specific supply regimes are at stake. that is why, together with marine le pen and the rassemblement national, we are asking the commission to maintain or even increase the current budget of the posei scheme.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the united kingdom has chosen to leave the european union and we have chosen to strengthen it. some might see this as a contradiction that would make it more difficult to negotiate the future of our relationship. i don't think it is. it is not, because we respect the british people's choice. the choice to leave not only the european union but also the single market and the customs union is a radical choice, but we will respect it. it has far-reaching consequences that profoundly change the relationship we can build together. this is not the case, because a strong europe is in the uk's interest. we are neighbours, we are allies and we are london's number one partner in terms of trade, but also in terms of people. geography is stubborn, facts are stubborn, and we have to face them. it is not, because we have huge challenges to face together: climate change, terrorism, cyberattacks, viruses that ignore borders. we need to invent new ways to fight them together, because separately, we'd all be losers. we are ready for a close, strong and lasting partnership with the united kingdom, but we also have strong convictions that we hold dear and that brexit cannot call into question. we have high standards to protect consumers, to protect workers, to protect the privacy and personal data of our fellow citizens and to protect our planet. we are not prepared to negotiate what we have fought so hard for, what we continue to fight for. the draft mandate we support for negotiations with the united kingdom is an illustration of these strong convictions which drive us; it offers a partnership unprecedented in its scope and scale, equal to what brings us together. it therefore asks for compensatory measures unlike those contained in other agreements with other partners of the european union, because the united kingdom is not for europe canada, japan, south korea or singapore; it's much closer, much more important, much more interdependent. brexit is not intended to destroy the links that have bound our economies, cultures and peoples together for centuries, nor to destroy the european construction.
madam president, we know very well that the relationship that will be built up between the european union and the united kingdom, between our countries and the united kingdom, will be decisive in many areas. a lot of important things have been said, but i would like to return to one fundamental point, which is the question of fishing. we know that fisheries was a key issue in the british debate which decided brexit. today we would have everything to lose if fisheries were to be separated from the overall negotiation with the british. i am very pleased that, thanks to the energetic work of michel barnier in particular, fisheries could be included in this negotiating mandate to ensure that a comprehensive agreement is negotiated, including this dimension. if we cannot reach an agreement on fisheries, there will be great tensions at sea and the disaster could be great, not only from an economic point of view but also from an ecological point of view. we need a common fisheries policy to preserve species and this is fundamental for the future of our countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote for a treaty which we believe is not good for the european union, not good for france and not good for vietnam. for years, we have been denouncing the ecological aberration of supply chains that circle the globe three times. for years we have been warning of the dangers of strategic dependence on sources of supply thousands of miles away, where, despite our best intentions, we have no real control. and for years we have also denounced the interference in the internal affairs of sovereign countries which too often results from free trade agreements. that is why we will not sign this treaty, because we believe that the 21st century is turning the page on free trade and globalisation. we believe that the 21st century will be the century of relocations, of the pursuit of the industrial autonomy of nations, aware of the requirements of their independence. above all, we believe that the 21st century will be the century of economic patriotism. we want vietnam, like the european union, to work towards its independence and its strategic freedoms.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have declared a climate emergency, we voted for the green deal just a month ago, and tomorrow we are asked what? we are being asked to vote on yet another free trade agreement as if nothing had happened. this agreement, unlike our promises in the european green deal resolution, does not include any binding mechanism on the sustainable development chapter. so the question for us is simple: do we give any value to our words, to our own words? ladies and gentlemen, vietnam is imprisoning environmentalists, trade unionists, human rights defenders. one of them, pham chi dung, was arrested precisely because he wrote us a letter asking us not to sign the agreement in the state. if you don't value your own words, have the decency to value his. don't sign the deal while he's in jail for talking to us. my fellow citizens, there is something above the god of commerce. we all have our future, we all have our principles. well, tomorrow's your chance to prove it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, vietnam is our second economic partner in south-east asia and the european union expects a lot of benefits from this trade agreement. yes, this agreement will protect 169 geographical indications, including 36 french pdos. our companies will be able to export many products without customs duties. we will have better access to public procurement. that's how many points we've gotten in these negotiations. but the human rights situation remains a cause for concern. many political prisoners and journalists are still being held, despite repeated calls for their release by the european union. if progress has been made with the ratification of international conventions, we must be uncompromising about respecting the chapter on sustainable development. our trade policy must be guided by our values and respect for human rights, but ratification of this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is not an end in itself. the key to success will be the successful implementation of the agreement, all in an international context of trade war.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join our colleague mr bartolo, who was rapporteur for the pech committee, on the need to combat illegal fishing. fighting illegal fishing is obviously about ensuring sustainable management of fisheries resources, but it is also about ensuring that we avoid unfair competition with fishermen who are subject to the constraints we have on our continent. vietnam has a yellow card on illegal fishing, but it is worth highlighting the efforts made by this country, particularly in the negotiations leading to this free trade agreement today. it should also be noted that the agreement explicitly states that the parties to the agreement will actively combat this illegal fishing. so is that enough? well, if that's not enough, let's go further. let us go further and put in place safeguards, such as the abolition of preferential tariffs for fishery products as long as there is a yellow card in the future. that is the spirit of the amendment tabled by mr renew, and i invite you to support it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president lagarde, thank you for being here. i thank you, mr rapporteur, for your excellent report. we share your view, madam president, that the economic situation is slowing down and that there are many challenges for the economy. as direct representatives of the european citizens, we see all these concerns in our territories. moderate growth is not having the desired effect on wages or consumption. housing prices in some areas are rising exponentially. more generally, the slowdown in economic activity in china or brexit may further disrupt the economy. in this period of uncertainty and digital and ecological transition, i welcome your initiative to launch the review of the ecb's monetary policy strategy, which will have to take account of all these changes. the ecb's roadmap therefore has many areas to consider, including making real progress - real progress - on gender balance in appointments to senior positions; examining the relevance of an ecb digital currency, but also monitoring the evolution of cryptocurrencies to combat money laundering in the financing of territories more effectively; the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december welcomed the efforts to give the euro a real international dimension and to strengthen its role as a reserve currency. in drawing up this strategy, madam president, i welcome the method of dialogue and openness which you envisage, in accordance with the commitment you made at your first hearing in parliament. finally, i welcome the public consultations you are going to hold, the first of which will be held in brussels at the end of march with civil society, and i hope that we will be involved in them.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are known to be wise because of your ability to manage conflicting interests, which is very flattering, but which will be put to the test as president of the ecb, first of all because the future review of monetary policy is a bit of a snake biting its tail. to combat deflation and unemployment, your predecessor, mario draghi, adopted unconventional measures in addition to lowering key interest rates. unfortunately, this policy has the shortcomings of its qualities: negative interest rates are harmful to savers and encourage the emergence of speculative bubbles, calling for a normalisation of this monetary policy, a normalisation which weakens the economic recovery. first of all, how do you intend to get out of this deadlock, in quotes? in addition, despite your commitment to the ecb's full independence, you have stated that you want to make climate change a priority subject in order to meet the commission's expectations. in short, a greener ecb, but above all, it must be admitted, a more politicised one. this approach, however, risks going beyond the ecb's statute by encroaching on the sovereign competences of the member states. how do you see this contradiction?
mr president, congratulations to my friend costas mavrides on an excellent report. i would also like to focus on an area which merits greater attention in my view, but from a different perspective to what has been done up to now, namely the situation of banks, big and small, in the eurozone. we are underestimating how difficult the situation has become. discussion of the subject is constrained because many would not like it to sound as an attack on the ecb’s monetary easing policies. true. so long as fiscal policy is not being deployed to bolster economic growth, such policies remain essential, and i agree with that. but, they’re also causing collateral damage to banks. other very significant factors are adding to the damage, like an overload of regulations raising operational costs. yet, while the capital markets union is being promoted in europe, the reliance on banks for business financing has grown. banks are curtailing their services to cut costs and to remain profitable, with negative economic and social consequences. it is illusory to hope that this will lead to the emergence of european champions in the banking sector. if eurozone banks retract their capillary outreach in national economies, citizens and smes – but not only they – will suffer.
mr president, i thank mrs lagarde for being with us. you have chosen, madam, to pursue a monetary policy of so-called quantitative easing to support economic activity, and many of us in this house have received this announcement with some relief because, because of the national egoisms and the dominant ideology on this continent, we unfortunately still have no real budget, which is absolutely incredible and inconceivable for the world's leading economic power. but this situation means that a lot rests on your shoulders and your policy must be perfect. we have heard a great deal of progress in your speech, but one point is still missing, namely speculation. i'm not going to eat that. we know that the quantitative easing policies of recent years have certainly supported the real economy - it had to be done - but they have also led to a hypertrophy of the financial sphere, and i would like to know what the european central bank actually intends to do to combat speculation.
mr president, madam president, commissioner, the 2018 annual report on the european central bank which we will be voting on tomorrow in plenary will be the first document we will be sending to you on behalf of the european parliament. i hope that these recommendations will serve as a basis for frequent dialogue with our committee on economic and monetary affairs. in this report we are discussing the challenges that our economies, and therefore the european central bank, will face in the years ahead. in january, at the world economic forum in davos, you spoke in particular about the need to strengthen cyber resilience in europe. in the top five global risks for 2020, a large-scale cyberattack would have significant consequences for the european economy. it is therefore more urgent than ever to renew the architecture of european and international cooperation in this area. we need to develop common strategies and coordinate efforts to address the risks created by the digital transformation. acceptance of the risks we face is a first step, but action must be the next. we must ensure that financial market infrastructures are resilient and promote cooperation between banks in the euro area in this area. i know, mrs lagarde, that i can count on your firmness and commitment to meet this challenge.
mr president, how wrong he is! how mr trump is wrong with this peace plan that has only a name, because peace, mr president, is not only that of the balance of power. peace, mr president, must be based on enough equity to ensure a future of understanding and not just coexistence. there can be no lasting and genuine peace between israel and palestine unless there is equity. and she's not the one you're proposing. so we will not support you, we will not follow you, but we will continue to tell our neighbors and friends, israelis and palestinians, that jerusalem must be the shared capital of two peoples equal in dignity, security and well-being. the blind will say that it is no longer possible, because the facts would be rewarded. but realism, the true, commands to stick to the utopia of justice, the one that always ends and must finally triumph.
mr. president, the trump administration's plan for the middle east is a dangerous step backwards and another step in the denial of international law. this is not an agreement, but the validation of israel's policy of the fait accompli. a one-sided view of the conflict which you, mr borrell, have the honour of condemning. we are not satisfied with the seriousness of the facts. since the member states are unable to reach a unanimous decision to call for the respect of the un resolutions, let us enforce the law with the means at our disposal. first, let us demand that israel compensate or reimburse for the destruction of projects financed by the union. no less than 97 structures are concerned, worth €500,000 in 2019. let's look at the policy of differentiating between israel's internationally recognized borders and the settlements. let us clearly condemn the institutionalisation of discrimination. finally, and most importantly, let us put back on the table, as the palestinians are demanding, an international conference for peace in the middle east.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, nine years of mistakes and europe persists. the european union and many member states have taken radical positions on the syrian conflict. on one side, at the beginning, there was good, the rebels; on the other, evil, the syrian government. and then there was the reality: in a matter of weeks, the favorites of the westerners and the americans were sidelined by the islamic factions, because they represented little in the ongoing conflict. in the rebel camps, attacks were fomented against france, against minorities, especially christians. we changed our allegiance to please mr. erdoğan, sometimes the saudi wahhabis, sometimes the muslim brotherhood in doha. the european union wanted to put the white helmets in the spotlight; we discover that their command center was next to the jihadists' in aleppo. france has chosen to ignore the ideology of the groups concerned, and last week it met with the spokesman of jaich al-islam, who terrorised the ghouta region, and was arrested in marseille thanks to an erasmus visa. then it was time for putin's condemnation. but those bombs were as deadly as the coalition bombs in mosul or raqqa. but now we must preserve the jihadists in idlib. but, ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you of the sentence in the security council report last july: idlib is now the largest dump for foreign terrorist fighters in the world. yes, we must protect civilians. but today, what do we do with these terrorists? we don't want to take them back to europe. excuse me, either we take them back to europe, if they are good rebels, and nobody wants them, or we let the syrian government do what any government would do on its territory, namely: take back control of its territory and bring peace by exterminating the rebels.
madam president, the war in syria has been going on for nine years, and the escalation of violence in and around the city of idlib has resulted, along with yemen, in the worst humanitarian crisis in the region. the conflict between the turkish and syrian armies has forced nearly 400,000 people to flee their homes since december last year. for most of them, it was not the first time, 80% of these refugees are the most vulnerable groups, women and children. fifty-three health facilities have been forced to close, and among refugee children, less than a quarter are in the education system. civilian casualties are rising. in total, 2.8 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance. the humanitarian crisis is exacerbated by winter conditions. the geopolitical commission and the european union as the single world promoter of peace, stability, dialogue must take over from a passive observer to an active proponent of solutions. that's our job. we need to intensify talks with the warring parties, but offer a multilateral platform to reach an agreement. first, let us consider the format of the recent brussels conference, which has achieved some results in the case of libya.
madam president, mr high representative, dear colleague, i invite you all to look at the videos posted on social media in recent days by the soldiers of bashar el-assad. you see them tearing up graves, digging up bodies, playing with their victim's head. we see them laughing and that fat laugh is a spit in the face of the world. right now in the idlib region, the damascus butcher and his russian godfathers are razing hospitals, schools, bakeries, and we let them do as we have let them do for the last nine years. and today, what do i hear? i hear some here in this chamber advocating the regime and calling for the extermination of the rebels. so let me express my shame and indignation and ask you, mr high representative, never to give in to these sirens of normalization with the assad regime. let us not forget who are the victims and who are the tormentors, and let us not forget that bashar al-assad's place is before the international criminal court.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at africa in 2020: it has a new face, that of its youth and its women. africa is ready to meet the challenges it faces, and the choice it makes today will have a decisive impact on the future of the world. now look at europe 2020: a continent of values and experience, but also a continent that, more than ever, needs allies. europe needs a strong and proud africa, just as africa needs a united europe that speaks to it with one voice. this is the condition for making multilateralism work and achieving the sustainable development goals. commissioner, the new strategy must embody a new relationship between our two continents. we must put an end to the postcolonial era and this narrative once and for all. our african partners are asking for a relationship of equals. we europeans also want to write this new page with them and develop a strategy not for africa but with africa. we also have another duty, which is to enable europeans to understand africa in all its diversity, and no longer only from the point of view of migration. commissioner, the new title of your portfolio, 'international partnerships', opens this new page in our history. as a member of parliament, i am proud to be writing it with you, with the council, with our african allies and with all my colleagues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen a worrying increase in cases of anti-semitism in europe and the world. in my own country, italy, anti-semitic signs and symbols have also recently appeared on the houses of holocaust survivors and human rights activists. this is a very serious phenomenon which is often covered up by parties which use racism to gain support. the leaders of these forces often make anti-semitic statements, sometimes even denying the holocaust. a few weeks ago this parliament hosted liliana segre, a survivor of auschwitz. today, we need to follow his example. just as you refused to join the far-right in a debate on anti-semitism, we must say clearly that only by being clearly anti-racist can we really fight anti-semitism. we must be at the forefront as a parliament, and therefore we must fight against all this, and the re-establishment of our working party on anti-semitism is an important signal, but we must continue in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in january we commemorated the discovery of the atrocities of auschwitz so that these horrors may never happen again. unfortunately, crimes and discrimination have continued since then, not only in europe (in the balkans) but also against tamils, tutsis, yezidis, kurds, copts, falachas, uighurs, muslim indians, rohingya, palestinians, roma... today, in view of this, we must rethink the fight against all these moral, psychological and physical attacks. the fight against discrimination must no longer be compared, competed for by a specific vocabulary that divides rather than unites. intersectionality and the word discrimination are relevant to tackling this major challenge with solidarity and struggle by all and for all. this commitment to non-discrimination must be universal, without regard to origin, gender, religion, sexual orientation or any other criteria that may define the oppressor and the oppressed. because you don't have to be a woman to defend a woman, you don't have to be a jew, christian, muslim to defend a jew, christian, muslim, you don't have to be a homosexual to defend a homosexual. let us all stand up, every time a human being is discriminated against.
mr president, the subject under discussion tonight is often discussed in this house and that is an excellent thing. but it is still treated in an incomplete, one-sided and one-sided way. it is incomplete, because no one, the majority, will be addressing in this debate the subject of the vast number of anti-christian acts in the world, not only against people but also against property, against churches which are being vandalized every day, against cemeteries which are being desecrated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know the answer: it is obviously the rise of islamism, this new totalitarianism which you refuse to see, which you forbid yourself to criticize, while our peoples are suffering and suffering from it. as for the hate you're denouncing, you're on the wrong target. you always and again target what you call with scorn and contempt the "populists". you should focus all your efforts on those who hate our european civilization, our cultures, our identities, our individual freedoms. you should fight those who want to impose on us by force a barbaric society that is not ours. that should be our common struggle: to fight with all our strength against islamism, this radicalism, this terrorism which is indeed the most serious threat to our democracies in the 21st century.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that president michel is not here to discuss this important point, because i think that by convening this extraordinary meeting he has put on the table much of the initial political credit he has earned by his appointment as president of the european council. we are therefore waiting for the new proposal to see the numbers, to see if anything has changed, but from the reports we are receiving and from bilateral meetings it does not seem that this proposal departs much from what was put forward by the finnish presidency, which was a proposal that displeased almost everyone, both the member states in the council, this parliament and the commission. i believe that with a few months to go until the important deadline for the new multiannual financial framework, it is appropriate to close a useless dream book and be more pragmatic and more realistic and accept the fact that resources are limited. the resources are limited because - and i agree with my colleague from the epp - very often this parliament and these institutions have not been able to give a concrete and positive implementation of the budget. not only cases of fraud, but in many cases the programmes on which political commitment was placed have not brought positive results. this is clearly reflected in a more conservative attitude on the part of the member states. if we are not able to demonstrate the efficiency and added value of the european budget, it is only natural that we should be more reluctant to give money. and then this same parliament and these same institutions have repeatedly voted resolutions, directives and regulations calling on the member states to exercise budgetary discipline. so we also need some consistency in order to have discipline in the management of our budget and in the management of our resources. i believe that the priorities that exist, the fundamental ones, the ones that are enshrined in the european treaties, can be financed without requiring additional resources. agriculture, fisheries, support for regional development and cohesion policy: i believe there is room in this budget to finance these priorities without asking for additional resources. we can cut the 20 billion euro of a useless programme of support for structural reforms, which will only result in a conditioning of the choices of the member states, we can cut drastically the 13 billion euro of pre-accession funds, especially for turkey. in short, we have room to make a really pragmatic proposal and to reach an agreement as soon as possible. but to do that, we need pragmatism, realism and to stop dreaming because the resources are not there.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is a tool. but you know, we can argue about the size of the tool -- a big hammer, a small hammer will always be a hammer, and when you need a screwdriver, well it doesn't help you to have a big hammer. what i mean is that what matters first is what we want to do with the budget of the european union. i very much liked what you said, madam president, to a point. when you say 'i will not accept a budget where less than 25% is spent on combating climate change', i would add: and if the other 75% is used to make climate change worse, then we are obviously wrong. i know that you do not think so, but i believe it is important to ensure that the whole european budget is consistent with the ecological and solidarity-based transition. and here i would agree with almost 100% of what manfred weber said, but on the common agricultural policy i do not agree. the aim of the common agricultural policy is not to help our farmers in the globalisation of agribusiness; the aim of the common agricultural policy must be to help our farmers make the transition to agroecology. that's where we'll make a difference. the same applies to the structural funds and the european union's research programmes: everything must contribute to this effort. the question of consistency is therefore the first element by which we can judge the quality of the council's proposal. i would remind you that this is a proposal, not a record. just because the council approves something does not mean that parliament is acting like a recording chamber. secondly, as manfred said, the link between the budget and respect for the values of the european union. the european union is a union of values. before it is an economic and monetary union, before it is a financial union, it is a union of values, and we cannot enjoy the economic and financial benefits of membership of the european union if we do not play fair by the rules of the game, that is to say, by respecting the values of the union. and we're still a long way from the count. and then there's the volume. of course, volume is a real issue. i think, as mr iratxe said, that parliament's proposal is reasonable - 1.3% of gdp! everyone knows very well that, macroeconomically, we are short of investment. the green deal is precisely what i believe will stimulate investment in the years ahead. of course, the bulk of the investment will be private investment, but there is no denying the driving and pilot role that public investment must play, if only in infrastructure, for example railways. and so, of course, we need a budget large enough to take on the new tasks. i would therefore say to the european council, either you sign for 1.3 or 1.5, or you give us the own resources, but you cannot keep saying 'we are squeezing the kiki on the volume and on top of that, we are not giving you the possibility of setting up own resources', that is to say european taxes. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we will never accept a multiannual budget that is going backwards for the period leading up to 2020 compared to the previous period. what happened at the end? the first three accepted what they considered unacceptable. i urge all of us to be consistent and therefore to stand firm if the proposal which the council will put forward after the extraordinary summit does not meet our criteria. we must not be afraid to go to war. there is agreement only when both agree. parliament is not a recording chamber of the council and charles michel would have been well advised to be present to hear this.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join the call made by those who have gone before me for president michel to be here today so that we can have a direct dialogue with him on the issues we are discussing. i do not want to give a speech listing priorities. how can we disagree on the objectives or on most of the objectives that have been set? the speeches we hear and the speeches we make are about fighting climate change. there's no one who disagrees with that, maybe we can discuss how. an intervention on innovation, an increase in resources for our young people, for researchers, i could join a list of priorities that design a more beautiful, better europe, as we all want it. but the theme and the knots are getting to the point. the nodes are a situation in which we have to deal with a different budget and above all with risks which may fall indirectly on some states, unlike others. it is clear that we are heading for a debate which will inevitably bring the risk that, in order to guarantee a good part of the policies referred to as the commission's programme, we will have to cut and slash certain items which are fundamental and which constitute for this parliament points on which we cannot go backwards. i am referring in particular to cohesion policy and agricultural policy. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the budget. the courage to take drastic and clear cuts on some items that have produced no results whatsoever is lacking. there is a lack of a strong idea of how we can develop and boost investment. in this sense, the discussion on the reform of the stability pact which opened on monday seems to me to be far from the immediate objectives which should also accompany the adoption of the budget. i'll close with one final thought. the rule of law is again the theme of this morning's debate. we have the depository of european values, because there is this presumption and so there is the conviction that we can explain what the criteria are for the rule of law and even link these values of which someone is the depository to the possibility or not of using the resources. i find all this appalling and above all disrespectful of the will of the voters, because everyone in this chamber speaks because they have popular legitimacy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the absence of charles michel from today's debate is unacceptable and also a bad sign for what is to come. mrs von der leyen, you have presented a five-year programme and you have received a vote of confidence from the european parliament. it is therefore not correct that mr hahn, who is sitting next to you, says that you are merely an 'honest broker' in the debate between the council and parliament. the programme you have presented needs at least 1.3% of european gdp to be financed, as the european parliament is asking for by a large majority. because otherwise the green deal cannot be implemented without drastic cuts in cohesion policies or the common agricultural policy, and there will be no money for innovation and investment. and we have to deal not only with the slowdown of the european economy but also with the possible crisis that is coming, and we can only do that with a more ambitious budget. and because we have to be practical, if the three co-legislators are to reach a satisfactory compromise, we must look for it on the side of what parliament proposes, above what the commission proposes, which are now obsolete, mrs von der leyen. the budget presented by the commission a year ago as a proposal is 5% below the current budgetary framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal which is currently closest to our vision of the multiannual financial framework is the european commission's proposal. we are fully in favour of course - as has already been said by the colleagues who have preceded us - of a substantial contribution to the green deal and to policies aimed at increasing competitiveness and innovation. how could anyone be against it? we also believe that the fight against migration must be supported in proportion to the real commitment of the states which are engaged in it, but also by tackling the root causes and integration policies. but all this cannot be achieved at the expense of traditional policies, with the cuts to cohesion policy and the cuts to agricultural policy which are the beating heart of the europe of the peoples. the concept of the relative prosperity index should therefore be improved and the concept of external convergence corrected. in any event, national contributions cannot be increased. the european union must have the courage to finance itself with its own resources, by finally introducing a carbon tax and by introducing and implementing a truly courageous web tax.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the budget debate is never a purely financial debate, because we are talking about future policy issues. let's remember that we're in the post-brexit period. this is the moment when many people say that something needs to be revised, something needs to be corrected, something needs to be completed. it's just that we have different ways of doing it. the european parliament is very clear that after the united kingdom leaves the european union, the european union should maintain and broaden its scope of action, it should maintain its level of ambition. the program should be consistent with what has been, adding new tasks for the future. but we have a different approach here at the council. some countries want not just a budget cut, but simply a reduction in the activities and scope of the european union. i want to go back very often to the old idea of the british, namely the renationalisation of certain politicians. that's where the slogan comes from: no more money. it is not just about the budget, but that the post-brexit union is simply going to be smaller in terms of its activities. the european parliament says 'no' by a clear majority. no, the post-brexit eu cannot give up its ambitions, because that would only prove that it is not up to the task. the european union must find a way to supplement certain elements and to find the means for new tasks, for example through own resources. i would like to say again that parliament will defend the european union and its ambitions and will not agree to any measures which lead to its gradual reduction.
madam president, commissioner, minister, after two long years of procrastination, a wind of urgency is blowing in the heads of state and government's backs. and it is happy. it is a good thing, because europe is at a turning point in its history; that has already been said. the collective challenges we face are enormous; they require rapid and unprecedented efforts - we all know that here. however, after more than 60 years of living together, the dogma of a budget of around 1% of gdp is not at all challenged. like every seven years, the states are cutting themselves off and locking themselves in apothecary accounts: how much am i going to give? how much will i get, anyway? plus 0.01% over here? i certainly don't. less 0.02% this way? oh, yes, of course! it is a fact that for some countries the quest for the holy grail is the decline of their national contribution. and this obsession is facilitated, even encouraged by our funding system. the current system of financing, which is based on 80% national contributions, is perverse. to satisfy each other, we compete in ingenuity, we introduce complexities and discounts of all kinds. the task of the president of the council is not an easy one, but he has our full support, as does the commission. to square the circle, there is only one battle: the battle of the self. with the own resources, once a hallmark, national contributions will be reduced - this is the win-win solution that the president mentioned earlier. the union will also be strengthened, with more financial autonomy to meet the priorities of europeans. but today, let's just say, it's a tough time. our financial system, stripped of its original philosophy, is in an existential crisis. let us be clear: without reform, it risks taking with it all the hopes we have for our union. ladies and gentlemen, the summit on 20 february will be crucial. it is crucial to gauge the reality of the ambitions of the states before the big face-to-face with parliament. as a negotiator for parliament, i am committed to defending this reform for the good of our union and the european citizens.
madam president, the multiannual financial framework and our draft budgets are normally the financial expression of political choices and priorities. to bring the union budget to 1.1 or 1.3% of gross national income, i.e. €1.1 to €1.2 trillion over six years, is indeed a leap forward. the uk's withdrawal, which represents a 12 billion annual contribution, should lead us to cut back on the budget, to refocus on what is essential, that is to say on concrete projects, at the service of our peoples and our citizens. what can our citizens, what can the rest of the world think of a european union which the united kingdom has just left and which is preparing, not to question itself, but to rush to enlarge to albania or north macedonia? over the past six years, the european union has spent less than 1% of its budget on border control and the fight against immigration. today, the draft mff presented by the finnish presidency and the commission's objectives are to sacrifice our agriculture - minus 17% of the budget devoted to it - and to increase the budget devoted to climate objectives to 25 or even 33%. but painting everything green won't fix anything. three hundred billion euros to add standards, constraints to our companies whose competitiveness is already terribly weakened by the logic of free trade, will further weaken them on the world stage. mrs von der leyen, you say that you want to build this budget with the european citizens, but then we must listen to them. they expect economic protection, they expect control of our frontiers, they do not want own resources which will in fact be a european tax, an additional layer to the tax base of countries such as france, which already have 47% of gdp in compulsory levies. this is completely unreasonable! finally, citizens do not want a european union which, today, in order to hide its impotence, multiplies the lessons it teaches the whole world: lessons on the rule of law for its member states, by making the payment of financial aid conditional on compliance with certain criteria, and lessons on human rights for the rest of the world.
the present constellation of european institutions offers us a tremendous opportunity. we have a newly elected parliament with 60% new members, a new commission with high ambitions and a newly appointed european president. it is indeed unique that we are seeing such institutional convergence at the start of the mff negotiations. i would like to say again to the council that a majority in parliament - with 60% new members, as i said - cannot be taken lightly. the von der leyen commission is setting ambitious targets on climate, on digitalisation, on its geopolitical role. these are priorities which are of great importance for our future, for the future of the welfare state, for our competitiveness. but there must be a means to that end. that is why this budget is so important. i also want to warn you about financial adventures. when i hear some commissioners say that the green deal will be pushed forward anyway, whether there is funding or not, i think that is quite irresponsible. because with that kind of talk, you're driving away - i think - investors you absolutely need rather than attracting them. finally, i would also like to stress that we must ensure that all programmes are performing. every euro spent by the eu must add value to the european citizen.
madam president, what strikes me about these negotiations on the cfp is the lack of sense of history on the part of the heads of state. the european union, as you know, is at a crossroads. and when the economic, demographic and climatic changes in the world force europe to take a leap forward, when the temptation to retreat is growing everywhere, we have heads of state in the european council who are not up to the task and who behave like small managers of a syndicate of co-owners. there are no longer any strong voices in the council, nor any courage to open the way to a europe free of austerity and able to make the most of the promises of this century and to protect the peoples from the dangers that lie ahead. not going forward is going backwards and with a small budget, europe will go backwards for the next ten years because the cost of the cap and cohesion budget cuts will be very high. less cohesion means less growth, less investment, fewer jobs, more fractures and more poverty. i want to conclude by saying that cohesion policy is a policy for the future. of the 2014-2020 programming period, almost €100 billion has been invested in the environment and climate through this policy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr marques, i think our views are quite similar. it is true that cohesion policy is a policy that will contribute to the new priorities defined today. and this distinction between traditional politics and new politics is, in reality, a distinction which has no real basis.
madam president, the budget debate is marked by big interests and is being undermined for the people. the militarization of the european union is being stepped up with funds and mechanisms, countries, sectors and groups are being pushed to benefit more from their competitors in the territory of brexit. the groups are being subsidized in the name of digital transition, to expand the work force, layoffs and poverty. in greece, with the help of european union funds, the new democracy government - in the wake of syriza - is closing down lignite plants, leading to unemployment for over five thousand workers and depriving the country of the possibility of exploiting domestic sources, while increasing its dependence on imported energy for which the people pay dearly. the green deal and the new 'even more reactionary' cap are promoting the profitability of the groups and the elimination of organic farmers by reducing their subsidies. we are not surprised by the class-based anti-people character of the budget, which is why we support the workers' struggle for their own needs against business groups and anti-people politics. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand that you are opposed to the common agricultural policy, that you say that it would benefit someone. do you think that in the new budget, in the new financial framework, we should reduce the money for this budget or would it be better to find, bring money from tax evasion, from economic crime, from vat evasion, so as not to reduce the budget for the agricultural policy?
answer "blue card". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the small and mediumsized farmers are the victims once again, and the groups are the winners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not only a good one for the farmers, but also a good one for the consumers.
madam president, we've been waiting for the council meeting since november 2018. better late than never! we need sufficient financial resources to have a cohesive, solidary, competitive, productive european union, a european union where there is sustainable and environmentally friendly growth. new own resources are the answer. new own resources which must put an end to the logic of the juste retour and which will allow us to have the necessary level for the budget of the european union and which cannot penalise the citizens of the european union. and so there is a very simple principle: whoever does not pay must pay. that is why we are in favour of a financial transaction tax. that is why we also advocate a tax on the big digital companies. in addition, the carbon market, the emissions from that market, and, in addition, at the borders, the carbon market will also be an important revenue source for the european union. i hope that the council will do the right thing and not betray the citizens of the european union, that it will not harm farmers, the poorest regions, rural development and that it will also help to promote growth that is friendly to the environment. that is an obligation of the council, and if it is not respected, we will reject your proposal.
madam president, the truth is that we have been talking about the financial framework for two years and, of course, now that the moment of truth has come, we have not started very well. we have not started well because mr michel has not wanted to come and listen to this parliament. and we are not off to a good start because what we are getting from the council is not very positive. if your discussions are going to focus on how many hundredths we are going to save here or there, what can be saved is the council, because this parliament is going to reject that proposal. what you have to discuss on 20 february is what policies we want to make at european level and how we are going to finance them. and there are many reasons why policies should be made at european level: because the results are better if they are made at european level than at national level, that is, because europe is more efficient; because inequalities are reduced, that is, europe is more united; or because they can only be made at european level and therefore europe is the only solution. and in all cases we win, all of us, all of europe. so, frankly, i do not understand why the council's discussions are still based on false premises. but beyond this accounting debate, what we have and what concerns me is the political debate because how do you intend to carry out all your discussions and all your council agreements? and i'll take an example: the european green deal. how are they going to finance it? because if some of you think that the transition to a carbon-neutral economy is going to happen without supporting our farmers, without supporting our businesses, without supporting our regions and without supporting our workers, you have a real problem. and i say to them only one thing: if we do not have a reasonable budget, the alternative is political irrelevance, economic irrelevance and the failure of the european project.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say to all those fanatics who are now calling for more and more millions for the european union: it cannot be the right reaction, after the british have left us as a great country, to call for more money. a smaller union logically requires less resources, and that is what we should be prepared for. they have not even answered the question whether we now want to transfer more powers to brussels or whether we want to transfer more powers back to the member states. in fact, this question has not been answered since 2016, when, after the brexit referendum's horror, the commission put forward five scenarios for a possible future, and to this day no answer has been given. now, in 2020, after a scary second of over four years, a conference on the future is finally starting. but it does not start at the beginning of the year, but sometime in the middle of the year and will continue until 2022. so the question of calling for more money now is a completely superfluous one, since the answer cannot be given as to where the european union is going. the commission's role in the european union is to ensure that the european union is able to play a leading role in the world economy. they're all lazy to deliver here properly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not prepared, as the representative of a net contributor, to give one more cent to this european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is a debate on our future. its technicality sometimes repels citizens, so i want to put things as simply as possible here, so that it is no longer possible to ignore the issues. the european union's budget for the next seven years is the one that will enable europe to respond to the climate challenge and the social emergency. so it must necessarily be a combat budget. a combat budget is an overall budget that increases at least by 1.3% of gross national income to enable the european union to carry out its ecological transition. a combat budget is a budget of which at least 50% is devoted to environmental protection to preserve the climate. finally, a combat budget puts the tax tool at the service of social justice and the ecological transition, for example by properly taxing carbon emissions, kerosene and financial transactions. these taxes will then be able to feed into own budgetary resources. for every two euros raised by these taxes, one euro would go to the national coffers and the remaining euro would be paid to the european budget. it would be both a victory for political europe and a sign of a willingness to break away from an irresponsible model that is leading us straight into the wall. it is high time we started down this road.
madam president! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the erdf to include the new member states. since the submission of the draft to the commission, in may 2018, parliament has been in a very uncomfortable wait and see position and rightly does not negotiate further on sectoral projects, because it is difficult to talk about rules if you do not know the numbers. the budget is a number, not a statement. it's all in the hands of chairman michel now. he is not here today, so we will not know whether his meetings with the leaders of the member states, known in budgetary slang as confessionals, have brought the positions closer together or not. if they did, there's a chance of success with the extraordinary summit on february 20 and the new negotiating box, but i remember that we never managed to reach an agreement the first time, so we won't know that today. what we do know is that the delay is greater than ever. the 2014-2020 perspective was agreed between the governments on 8 february and with parliament in june. this calendar seems unrealistic this year. however, the worst-case scenario is a protracted bidding process between the institutions. people don't like that, it creates a bad image in the european union, because the beneficiaries want predictability in their investment. this is the greatest advantage of the european budget.
madam president, 'whatever it takes': in 2012, mario draghi explains that the central bank is ready to do whatever it takes to save the eurozone. and the fed is going to put $2.6 trillion on the table. €2.6 trillion over four years to save the euro area. and to save the climate, how much are we going to put in? saving the single currency, of course, was very important, but saving our single planet, saving our single humanity, isn't that even more important? are we also prepared to do whatever it takes to make the green deal a success, a just transition? the commission itself says that between €300 billion and €500 billion is needed each year to make the green deal a success. the annual shortfall is between €300 and €500 billion and, for the moment, what is concrete is a fund for a just transition with €7 billion over seven years. the solution would be to develop own resources to have a very ambitious 'climate' budget, without asking a single euro from modest families or member states. when i was a kid, the corporate tax rate in europe was 45%. today, the corporate tax rate has fallen to 20%, while dividends are exploding. it is time to move on to own resources. a real green pact or greenwashing: it will be decided in the coming months.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who know that i am not only a frenchman but also a farmer and a former agricultural representative will not be surprised to hear me stress the crucial issue of the budget for the common agricultural policy. i believe, however, that what i am saying is in the interests of all europe. i can imagine that in order to finance the new legislative ambitions of the european union, there will be a temptation to make cuts in historical policies. but that would be a serious mistake for three simple reasons. all the world's major agricultural powers are strongly supporting their agriculture and we have a responsibility to be up to the task. the current agroecological transition, which the green pact will accompany, cannot be successful without a cap that provides the means for it. the quality and diversity of our food, the balance of our rural areas and the livelihood of many farmers also depend on the cap budget. these are not small issues. the cap budget must not be reduced. i thank you for listening to me, and i thank you even more for listening to me.
in writing. negotiations on how much of the european pie each country will provide are in their final stages. there is not enough money for all the projects, so the competition for european money is very tough. my country, slovenia, is in a very awkward position because at a crucial moment it does not have an operational government. the cohesion funds are an important resource for our development, and we should fight for them with all our strength, as other countries do. i call on the leaders of the member states to take into account the fact that europe is only as strong as its weakest link. but i am glad that the european parliament has the final say in the decision.
in writing. the negotiations on the eu's multiannual budgetary framework must now be given a boost in the council. the commission's original proposal, which moderately reduced the share of agricultural and regional aid and increased resources for research, training and security, provides a good framework for further negotiations. unfortunately, the council's proposal, prepared by the finnish presidency, does not reflect the position of the commission or the european parliament. first of all, the framework is too tight, 1.07% of gdp. in addition, funding has been cut from exactly where the needs of the future lie: security, digitalisation and the fight against climate change. the cost of brexit to the eu budget is undoubtedly considerable. some of this will have to be covered by increased financing from the member states, some by savings, but the share of own resources will also have to be strengthened in future. in addition to agricultural and regional policy, the new budget must be able to meet the challenges of the future: industrial reform and sustainable growth, in particular innovation, digitalisation, support for the growth and training of smes, and, more broadly, security policy. i would like to highlight in particular the two programmes for 2021-2027 for which i have been responsible in parliament. firstly, the connecting europe facility (cef), which will finance crossborder transport, energy and digital infrastructure: as rapporteur for the committee on industry, i find it astonishing that the council is proposing cuts to the programme at a time when both european competitiveness, a functioning internal market and the fight against climate change require fast, modern connections. secondly, the horizon research programme, where i am responsible for the committee on transport: investment in european science, research and innovation is needed to strengthen industrial competitiveness and to meet global challenges. the eu parliament proposes to increase the programme by 50%. we'll hold on to this.
in writing. the extraordinary european council of 20 february on the multiannual budget 2021-2027 is the first relevant test of eu27 solidarity. negotiating the eu's multiannual budget is always a tough exercise, but never in the last 20 years have tensions between east and west, north and south been greater than they are now. the digital transformation, the green deal, new security and migration needs are new challenges for the eu27 that need to be appropriately funded. the vision of the group of austerity states to finance the new challenges at the expense of cohesion policy and the cap is unacceptable. for increased burdens we need an increased budget, not irrational cuts. bringing eu citizens closer means action, not just words. in romania and eastern europe, the eu is personified by three programmes: cohesion, with visible investment in the smallest communities, the cap, which brings prosperity to millions of farmers, and erasmus+ for young people. these programs can't afford any budget cuts. i welcome the position of the epp in the european parliament that a sound budget is more important than the speed of its adoption. i will campaign for a vote against any budget proposal that would diminish funding for cohesion policy and the cap.
the epp group has notified the president of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement. mr glucksmann, on a point of order.
madam president, yes, that is a point of order. i refer to rule 10 (4) which states that members shall refrain from offensive speech during parliamentary debates. the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. i emphasize: by exterminating the rebels. not the terrorists of the islamic state organization, but the rebels. not to fight, but to exterminate. this call for extermination is an offense. this is a characteristic of fascism and has no place in this house. we cannot allow the little telegraphists of vladimir putin, the man who wants to kill his enemies in the toilet, to import his vile language into our parliament. we may have deep, virulent disagreements, but we cannot tolerate in our midst the apology of war crimes or crimes against humanity. these remarks constitute hate speech within the meaning of rule 10 (4) of the rules of procedure and i ask you to sanction them. it must not pass and it will not pass.
paradoxically, i should like to thank raphaël glucksmann for his speech, the last word of my...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have just voted for a free trade agreement with vietnam which tramples on the environment and human rights, for the sole purpose of satisfying the lobbies which have otherwise given you champagne. you are directly responsible for an ecological disaster which will increase the transport of goods between the european union and vietnam by 20 to 30%, accelerate deforestation, and worsen the development of polluting industries such as leather and steel. but talking about a green deal with tremors in your voice doesn't stop you from voting for such a climate-killing agreement. you are directly responsible for a social scandal that aims to profit from an exploited workforce, caught between the hammer of globalized capitalism and the envelope of authoritarianism. and a state that condones forced labor, bans unions and jails political opponents in turn. the ngos have warned you, you could not ignore the disastrous ecological and social impact of this agreement. if you didn't know, you're guilty of stalking. and if you did, you're guilty of cynicism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament has just adopted, for the first time since the von der leyen commission was appointed, a free trade agreement, the one with vietnam. this agreement is bad for democracy, for workers and for the environment. it is bad for democracy, because this agreement with an authoritarian and repressive regime enshrines the triumph of the arbitration courts which systematically favour multinationals and shareholders at the expense of the people. the two million textile workers in europe will suffer the full effects of social dumping, and the vietnamese will suffer the full effects of social dumping, because this agreement will reinforce their exploitation by multinational companies and a government that has no use for ilo conventions, freedom of association and the right to strike. the agreement is also harmful to the environment because it does not provide for any mechanism to ensure that the objectives set by international environmental agreements are met. not to mention the increase in greenhouse gas emissions that will result from the intensification of this trade. that is why i strongly reject this evil agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this agreement was an extremely difficult one. all the objections which have just been raised here are of course valid, and particularly those concerning the very worrying human rights situation in vietnam. however, we are not starting from nothing, we are not starting from a non-existent situation. we are already trading with vietnam, which is a major trading partner of the european union, to a large extent for the benefit of vietnam, which has a trade surplus with us. the real question is therefore whether we should maintain this status quo or whether we should try to stop vietnam by drawing it to our side and making it adopt, as it has done, environmental objectives, human rights objectives and, of course, also by making it trade with us under rules which open up its markets to us with a genuine requirement of reciprocity. it seems to me that this agreement is a step in the right direction in this respect, and if we had not signed it we would have risked letting vietnam go to its great neighbour, china. is this really the world we want? should europe give up acting? i don't think he did.
madam president, i voted against the draft free trade agreement with vietnam because i believe it will have a negative impact on our economy and on our jobs. vietnam is already flooding us with its low-cost products, as evidenced by the trade deficit of the european union, which stood at €27 billion in 2018. the near-elimination of customs duties provided for in the agreement will inevitably worsen this deficit. it will also encourage our companies to move to this country. vietnam is also a communist dictatorship which does not respect human rights or the environment; so it is hypocritical to claim that this agreement will miraculously make him an example. the european union has once again betrayed the values it claims to uphold.
madam president, the eu— vietnam free trade agreement is the first of its kind by the eu with a developing country. vietnam is not a perfect or easy partner. it has a long way to go with improving human, civil and political rights but, for a developing country, vietnam has made very ambitious commitments in this deal, an arrangement which will bring opportunities for both european and vietnamese workers and businesses. with this agreement, vietnam commits to high—quality rules. on labour rights, for example, it commits to following all core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions. so this agreement is of great importance, also from a geopolitical point of view. this will enforce its reliance not only on china. the country’s government is, however, now clearly committed to reform. the eu needs to continue. it is not an end to agree on the deal, but we have to continue cooperation and dialogue during the implementation process.
madam president, i supported the resolution today and am supporting a trade deal with vietnam because i believe that trade agreements offer opportunity to engage on all areas, such as the environment, human rights and social standards. trade agreements benefit consumers, they benefit companies and they create jobs on both sides. i recognise that vietnam is not ideal in terms of human rights. nonetheless, i think the engagement that the european bloc will have in terms of trade – companies engaging at that level and, indeed, individuals – will certainly benefit. i think it’s important that we have monitoring in place to ensure the effective implementation of all the commitments that have been made in these negotiations with regard to environmental standards, social standards and human rights. so i support a rules-based trade agreement with vietnam because i think that’s far better than having no rules and no trade. we must recognise that we already do trade with vietnam as a bloc.
madam chairman, i was the rapporteur of both these agreements from 2012 to 2019 and i gave up this reporting after a series of false accusations against me by the green faction, including the czech pirate party and their friends in the media, because it was clear to me that it would serve as a pretext to remove or sink both these agreements. which is why i'm glad it didn't. i am glad that the ep has approved both agreements by a very solid majority, and that the ep has recognised its chance to be at the forefront of the free trade campaign at a time when protectionism is on the rise in the world, and that it has also recognised the growing geopolitical role of vietnam in the south east asian region. of course, i supported both of these treaties, and i'm really glad they passed.
madam president, i’m delighted to fully support the free trade and investment agreement with vietnam. as the ppe standing rapporteur for the southeast asian region and having guided the agreement with singapore through this house last year, i’m well aware of the enormous potential these agreements have to boost our trade exchanges with this region, bringing positive effects on growth and employment and in terms of a secure investment environment. the new agreement with vietnam opens new perspectives, especially with the elimination of 99% of tariffs and non-tariff barriers. for example, it will be much easier for eu exporters of dairy and livestock food products, such as skimmed milk, cheese and meat, like pork and beef, to trade there. finally, i welcome the huge opportunities for ireland, in particular, with this agreement and of course in reverse for vietnam. this is a good agreement and i hope it gets into operation as soon as possible.
madam president, the vote on the free trade agreement with vietnam is very bad news. my colleagues explained yesterday why this agreement is in complete contradiction with the will to combat global warming and with the european green deal. they also explained why it was inappropriate for the greens to vote against the agreement, given the human rights situation in vietnam, an authoritarian country where even the ilo rules are not respected. we also rejected this agreement because of its very negative impact on the fight against iuu fishing. since 2017, vietnam has been under a european union 'yellow card' procedure for failing to comply with its obligations to combat illegal fishing. although vietnam has been cooperating with the union for a few months, it is still not in compliance with international conventions on illegal fishing. by voting for this agreement, parliament is weakening the yellow card system and the fight against illegal fishing. moreover, the free trade agreement could lead to imports of products from illegal fishing. i was therefore unable to vote in favour of this agreement.
madam president, i look at vietnam with sympathy and friendship, having been a member of the french delegation abroad, and in particular of the asia-pacific area, for five years. i know the suffering of this people and the struggle they are making to get back on their feet. however, this is true of relations between nations as well as of reality: we must work with objective data and succeed in establishing relations with all the countries of the world. finally, it is our conception of international relations, in principle, not that of the european union, which raises the question of human rights at every opportunity. i voted against this agreement because it does not benefit europeans, because it is still marked by an ideological conception of free trade and because the european customs union has long since ceased to serve the peoples. we must not sign any agreement which would be against the relocation of industrial activities to europe, which would not give our own before helping the development of others. we cannot accept that private arbitration should replace national courts. that is why i voted on the texts concerning the agreements between the european union and vietnam.
while the european commission has just presented its green deal in a big way, you, ladies and gentlemen, have just voted on a list of 'investments of common interest' which includes no less than 32 gas projects. yeah, that's all i got. what common interest are you talking about when you support the development of gas infrastructure, when gas accounts for 20% of global co2 emissions? what common interest are you talking about when you choose to pour 29 billion euros of public money into these climate-killing projects? what common interest are you talking about, finally, when these projects include gas from hydraulic fracturing, which endangers the planet and the health of local communities? you are completely discrediting this parliament by applauding the climate emergency with both hands, while at the same time writing a blank check to the polluting multinationals. the common interest is the opposite of these absurd and useless projects, it is to face the climate catastrophe and give us a chance to respond, starting by leaving fossil fuels in the ground.
madam president, i voted for this resolution. fgm is a form of violence that is often linked to degrading and unacceptable views of women, or to certain islamist sects. a horror that has been imported onto european soil and which scandalizes our societies, since it is associated with mass immigration. inviting people from different cultures and then wondering if they practice different customs is really the lot of the naive. this horror cannot stand the ideological a priori of the joint resolution - it is enough to say simply and clearly our disgust at practices which damage human nature. the second point is to distinguish between what goes against our universal principles and what endangers our continent. six hundred thousand young women are at risk of such practices on our continent, a practice which has been ignored until now. in order to implement a european strategy for defending and promoting the european way of life which rejects any such practice, it is of course necessary to examine the causes. and the reasons are our lack of control over the origins of immigration, our promotion of an outdated multiculturalism that justifies increasingly revolting practices and, of course, justifies our voting for this resolution.
madam president, i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which i voted for, of course. after the adoption of the resolution on the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention in november 2019, i think this is still a strong message that we are sending about violence against women and gender equality. while the un has included the eradication of gender-based violence as one of its sustainable development goals by 2030, it is still estimated that 200 million girls and women worldwide are still subject to female genital mutilation, and that 600 000 women in europe are still subject to it. female genital mutilation is an attack on the body and mind of women. this resolution clearly shows that female genital mutilation is a manifestation of inequality between women and men, and i will be against what mr mariani says: we will not stigmatise religions. as such, a systemic approach to combating this phenomenon, which must be based on prevention and the economic empowerment of women, is needed.
madam president, it is estimated that 500 000 women have been the victims of genital mutilation. if female genital mutilation exists in europe, it is not european at all. it is not found in the history of our countries, nor in their traditions, nor in their religious requirements. there were only a few marginal cases in a 19th century russian sect, again self-mutilation. female circumcision in europe is the exclusive practice of immigrant populations who have not been assimilated and have not adopted european civilization and customs. their development is a demonstration of the migration flood we are experiencing and the lack of integration of certain populations. if we can fight this barbarity in certain countries outside the union, we must do so in those countries and not import this problem into europe, as the istanbul convention suggests. thirty million women worldwide are at risk of fgm. let us protect them in their own country, but let us not make genital mutilation an additional reason for immigration.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution, which i believe is in the right direction, namely the protection of data freedom and consumer protection, and i would like to acknowledge the commitment of the chairman of the imco committee. you know, rabelais said, "knowledge without conscience is only the ruin of the soul", and that's why it seems to me that we have to remain vigilant about technologies related to artificial intelligence. indeed, algorithms are not capable of managing whole sections of society and our daily lives today - i am thinking of public services, claims, banking operations - and that is why i would like to draw your attention to two points where, in my view, the text could have been more ambitious in terms of transparency. transparency is a key factor in building the confidence of our citizens. we can also strengthen this text by ensuring that software will never discriminate against the most vulnerable people. so yes to science, yes to progress, if and only if they are combined with ethics and morality.
madam president, our british colleagues have therefore left the chamber. we owe them good memories. nigel farage thus long symbolised the excellence produced by attachment to a land and an identity, against all those who dream of a great void where nations should drown. so how can we give a negotiating mandate that is structured on something other than the arrogance of the european institutions and that avoids, unlike the resolution, the provocative childishness that denies the sovereignty of great britain? in reality, the behaviour of the european institutions during brexit is an additional argument against any further advancement of their prerogatives: inability to respect the balance between nations, imbalance between objectives and assets... nothing has been done with the tact and the restraint that should prevail in this kind of situation. the brexit debates were a kind of playground; the most unknown and least supported voices in their own countries were lecturing established personalities in britain. this is where arrogance can sometimes lead us, when people who want to be respected simply want to be listened to. for these reasons, i abstained.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiating mandate with the united kingdom is preparing the largest free trade agreement ever concluded by the european union. of course, as always, this mandate is cloaked in good intentions about the european social model and pious wishes about respect for our standards, but we are not fooled, because behind the beautiful veneer, what do we find? the persistence of the free trade ideology that crushes the peoples of europe and destroys our ecosystem, the introduction of an arbitration mechanism that usurps the sovereignty of the peoples of europe for the benefit of private courts, the attachment to the system of greenhouse gas emission quotas as if market mechanisms could respond to the climate crisis and the ambition, finally, of enhanced cooperation in the military field in partnership with nato, a bellicose and outdated alliance. ladies and gentlemen, the british have just left the european union, so everything is as it was before. but what will it take for this parliament to finally learn from this?
madam president, a few months ago everyone applauded the appointment of a woman as head of the european central bank. but make no mistake: it is the tree that hides the forest, as sexism still reigns supreme in the european economic institutions. for those who may doubt it, i have brought here some photos of those who today decide on the economic and monetary governance of the euro area. here is the ecb's executive board: two out of six people are women. the board of governors of the european central bank, even better: two women out of 25 people. the list is still long and our committee on economic and monetary affairs is doing no better, with only 11 women out of 60 members. so there are no women who are sufficiently qualified for these posts, as one right-wing member of parliament in our committee has dared to say? frankly, this is not serious, and such a lack of parity is unacceptable. it is time for this to change, by finally taking binding measures. women will no longer be intimidated or marginalized. we have our full place at the helm of european economic governance and we intend to take it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the trafficking of animals has been rampant in europe for years. it is, according to interpol, the third largest in the world, just behind arms trafficking and drug trafficking. since the 2000s, the rise of pet stores, online ads and social networks, the situation is getting a little worse every day. according to the ngo four paws, around eight million puppies are needed each year to meet european online demand and the market generates more than €1 billion in revenue. the big losers are the animals. most are illegally and systematically raised by organized breeders in undignified conditions. these are females treated in reproduction machines until they are exhausted, these are tens of thousands of puppies and kittens taken from their mothers far too soon, with little or no care, no vaccinations, sometimes raised without regard for their basic needs before being transported across europe in conditions that some simply do not survive. it is high time that our countries have a mandatory and harmonised identification system to counter traffickers. it is high time that the sale of animals on the internet is framed as a first step towards, we hope, their outright prohibition. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
madam president, i would have preferred to respond to this personal attack immediately after mr glucksmann's remarks, but thank you for allowing me to speak, even though the chamber is a little sparse. it would have given me the opportunity to apologise for a blunder, which i sincerely regret, in the very last words of my speech yesterday. as the video shows, i was speaking under the logical pressure of the hammer, which signaled the end of my speaking time. i stopped reading my text and i sincerely regret that i spoke about "rebels" instead of "the elimination of terrorists". however, these are not hate speech and i think in conclusion it is time to recognize that there are no rebels in this region for a long time, but islamists. i leave the final word to the un report which said last june: 'idlib is now the largest dump of terrorist fighters in the world'. i repeat my sincere apologies.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, modernity is not about disposable workers, underpaid, without social protection. this is called a return to the middle ages. all over the world, in spain, belgium and even in california, the courts have come to the same conclusion: digital platforms cheat and exploit the most vulnerable. for the first time in france last week, deliveroo was convicted of covert work. in fact, the court recognized that under the guise of freedom and flexibility, deliveroo was cheating the labor code by forcing its bicycle deliverymen to be fake freelancers rather than giving them a work contract. commissioner, outside this parliament, outside, in the streets of all our cities in europe, these new digital forcibles are looking at us, they are looking at you and they can't wait any longer. what are you waiting for, what are we waiting for to force the platforms to recognize the delivery drivers, to recognize the drivers for what they really are, that is, salaried workers? we must guarantee the same protections and access to collective representation as for all other employees.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress two points. first, one of the most visible consequences of digitalisation in the social and employment field, as we have said, is the emergence of new forms of work, particularly through the development of platforms. in practice, these platforms cover very different realities, which can make our task as legislators more complex. we must strike the right balance between the opportunity for new job prospects and the protection of these workers, avoiding their possible precariousness. in this respect, i think it is a priority to guarantee them decent working conditions and access to social protection in the event of sickness or accidents at work. i have no doubt, commissioner, that you will do your utmost to ensure that this is the case. we must also allow these workers to organise themselves collectively to defend their interests. finally, ensuring training opportunities is essential to ensure the quality of service provision and individual career prospects. the second point i would like to stress is the very poor positioning of the european union in terms of digital skills, as 40% of our workforce currently has little or no digital skills. it seems to me that it is time to update our training software. let's invest heavily in digital skills! there is urgency, particularly in the eighth of the key competences, which is digital competence. why not a digital passport in the european union, which would be visible and on which we have to invest massively.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your commitment and energy in bringing this equality strategy to fruition. it's time to go. in the face of the major changes facing the world and the european union, it is high time that equality between men and women is a reality. equality before health, first. in my country, abortion was legalized in 1974. yet in 2020, there are still women and men in the european union who do not have equal, free, compassionate access to abortion and, of course, to sex education. because yes, the right to abortion is a health issue and all european citizens should be equal when it comes to health. violations of sexual and reproductive health rights are violations of women's rights, they are violations of human rights, they are unacceptable acts of violence against which we must fight without mercy. equality in the face of violence, let's talk about it! we must eradicate them, starting with economic and financial violence. if yesterday we were celebrating women and girls in science, our financial reality is an unacceptable gender pay gap at work, which is getting worse in retirement. this is absolutely unacceptable. equal work, equal pay! men, women, regardless of background, disability, beliefs: equal work, equal pay. it is unacceptable that women should see their pensions hampered by the fact that they have children. the only human being to have won two nobel prizes is a woman. it is unacceptable that women are underrepresented in stem fields. we need equality in careers, equality in access to power. this strategy, as you have said, must be concrete, it must be binding. we have examples in the european union showing that this does not hamper the performance of companies. physical violence must also be combated. the istanbul convention is blocked? until that happens, let's develop alternative solutions. the council will unlock it. this does not prevent the introduction of a directive that cuts all forms of violence and harmonises the definitions of the different forms of violence, by adopting an intersectional approach. i would like to conclude by saying that the simone veil pact was proposed to be based on the existing legislation in all the european countries which participate in gender equality. let's put it in place to pull european legislation up.
mr president, commissioner, minister, as you know, the right to sexual and reproductive health is the fundamental condition for achieving equality. unfortunately, in recent years, there has been a backsliding and a questioning of this right around the world - and often with the support of major nations such as the united states. the european union loses its credibility when it does not speak with one voice. the nairobi summit for the united nations conference on population and development in november is one example. i found it shocking, unacceptable, that member states, poland and hungary, are taking the side of those who are questioning women's rights. commissioner, minister, the new generation has never been more aware of the inequalities between women and men. it is making its voice heard all over the world: in chile, argentina, mexico, spain, france, belgium... because this generation can't stand this injustice anymore. this is what is known as the "equality generation". so let the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration be their moment! let's listen to these girls and boys, these women and men from all over the world who are demanding a society of dignity, a society of justice, a society of equality. that is europe and its values. it is to them that we, as politicians, are committed.
mr president, it is a question of defining the priorities of the european union in the field of the status of women. our delegation will defend the fight against wage gaps in equal work, against cyber violence, forced marriages and genital mutilation. we will also be advocating for recognition of the work of mothers in the home and in domestic work. we will of course not vote for your cartoon resolution which calls into question the sovereignty of states and seeks to impose the istanbul convention. i take this opportunity to point out a very important subject which is taboo for you: the weight of radical islam in the violation of women's rights in the world, but also in europe. in france, a girl named mila, who was bullied in her high school, has been very critical of islam on social media. she received several hundred thousand aggressive messages, including death and rape threats. she was not allowed to return to her school because her safety was not assured there, and she was placed under police protection. after three weeks of detention, she had to move to another institution. this girl symbolizes the daily lives of thousands of women in europe who are influenced by radical islam, spread by non-assimilated populations. the feminists, often so braille, have been completely silent on this subject, obviously taboo for them. our group asked for a debate on this subject in this plenary, but that was refused. however, it is high time that you opened your eyes to the harmful role of immigration and radical islam in the living conditions of women in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i prefer the real to your petty-bourgeois feminism. what are you going to do, not to improve the lives of women, but really to save their lives? genital mutilation, rape, violence, and harassment. every day, a new atrocity is committed against women. so what are you gonna talk about at the united nations? the times you asked the leaders of pro-immigrant organizations to keep silent about rape, because it was the populists' game? the british police refusing to press charges against indo-pakistani paedophile gangs, for fear of accusations of racism? from the prostitution of african teenagers, romanian or albanian, because of your sacred freedom of movement? feminists condemning a teenage girl threatened with death in france for insulting islam? i wonder. will you admit that you let the law of the neighborhood become the only law? that you have abandoned women to their tormentors, just because they were and still are your voters? i'm not even asking you to be feminists anymore. women are for you variables of electoral adjustment. just one thing: remember that you are europeans and that as such you must take up the courage of that civilization which has made women saints, queens, ministers, empresses and warlords. before the united nations, remember where you came from.
mr president, the famous refugee crisis that began in 2015 is definitely not a crisis at all. the massive influx of migrants to the european continent, in addition to being continuous, has become a veritable flood. in greece, annual arrivals have more than doubled in two years, reaching 75,000 new migrants in 2019. on the island of samos, their number exceeds the population. not to mention the access route through the continental border with turkey, where the crossing of the modest evros river is enough to demonstrate the total ineffectiveness of frontex and the obsolescence of the 2016 agreement with turkey. we can discuss and be indignant endlessly about the conditions in which migrants and illegal immigrants live, but that is dealing with the effects of the problem instead of solving its causes. the responsibility for these tragedies lies with all those who, by their political actions or by their speeches, are inciting the whole world to reach europe's shores. on the contrary, all those who opt for a policy of humanistic deterrence, both by means of the measures put in place at the borders and by cutting off all the vacuum pumps in the respective countries, will avoid these tragedies. by closing its maritime border with turkey to stop illegal boats, greece is on the right track and we should help and encourage it, rather than ridicule it. human rights say that anyone can leave their country if they are persecuted, but this principle must not and never will justify turning other people's lives, homes and countries upside down in return. the 21st century will be the century of the right of peoples to self-determination and, above all, to remain self-determined.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, today 75% of children in europe use the internet. the internet is a wonderful tool for opening up to others and to the world, but it is also a place of risk. you are right, commissioner, when you say that we must protect our children, who are particularly at risk because of their age. i am happy about the fight against cybercrime, as well as the fight against violent content, against slut shaming concerning young girls. you're right, i know. however, in your communication, commissioner, you regret that young people only consume on the internet. you are right, but i will go further and talk about the regulation of advertising content which today shows our children a consumerist and particularly materialistic view of the world. finally, commissioner, in your communication you call for a digital for all. you're in charge of improving the conditions of people with disabilities and tonight, not a word! a zero point on that subject. it's a missed opportunity, madam, you should have taken this opportunity to also talk to us about the urgency of creating an inclusive digital world.
madam president, madam commissioner, the emergence of the coronavirus confirms the global nature of health crises. no, viruses do not stop at borders. as you recalled, madam commissioner, the european union has played its role of coordination and support for the member states: recommendations for health workers, organisation of the repatriation of european nationals to china, funding of research up to €10 million to find new medicines and vaccines. we have heard in recent days very critical remarks about the chinese government. this is not the time to lecture or to use a public health crisis as a political issue. the time is now to show solidarity with the chinese people and their doctors who are fighting alongside them. it is also a time to reach out to countries, and i am thinking of africa, where the health system is fragile and will not be able to contain an epidemic.
the commission has already taken action on this. mrs wiseler-lima in french for my french colleague i just wanted to know if you have read a book called la peste, by albert camus.
madam president, a farm to fork strategy, if done correctly and funded correctly, can be of great benefit to consumers and farmers alike. we can see a situation such as: labelling of meat such as beef, details of what the animal was fed, hours inside, carbon footprint, fertilisers used, price given to the farmer. this is an opportunity to differentiate between one type of beef or meat and another. look at free range eggs. people currently go into a shop and they pay more for them. we can have the same thing with beef. the question is: how serious are the commission about this, what money will they put into it? the commissioner mentioned it’s as important as security and defence. i would say it’s more important. i would say it is security and defence. you look at the multiannual financial framework (mff), you look at our priorities. we see a 22 times increase in funding for weapons and death, bombs and bullets. in the mff we are choosing fighting before feeding. we need to reverse that if we want to fund this and be serious about it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the farm to fork strategy can be the mechanism through which several objectives can be achieved: quality food, affordable prices or the fight against climate change. however, the agricultural sector cannot be held solely responsible for the decline of biodiversity or the depletion of natural resources. this is a responsibility we all share. farmers must be seen as part of the solution and not part of the problem when it comes to fighting climate change. the success of the farm to fork strategy depends on whether or not we are anchored in the reality of the field and able to understand what the vulnerabilities are, but also the opportunities in this sector. a highly green policy, which does not take into account the ability of the farmer to adapt to new conditions, will put pressure on both farmers and consumers, who will have to pay more for food. in the end, both consumers and farmers will lose out. i do not want to imagine what a phenomenon like the yellow vests of farmers across the european union could mean. the green deal and the farm to fork strategy have to be turned into opportunities for agriculture if we are to really succeed. however, substantial funding from member states is needed. one thing must be clear: you cannot do more with less money. access to research, to precision agriculture as a guarantee of the sustainability of the agricultural sector must, however, be equally distributed among farmers in the member states.
madam president, from farm to fork, we have to reason with short circuits, family farms, farms on a human scale. from farm to fork, it is about bringing the consumer closer to the producer, and this choice implies a reorientation of the agricultural model, so that farmers can make a decent living from their profession and consumers can enjoy quality products. farm to fork also means implementing measures to reduce food waste, which accounts for 25 to 30% of food production; it is also to reduce the use of chemical pesticides and to facilitate market access for organic substances and products. so yes, the green deal must be a real opportunity for farmers and for rural areas, and they must play a central role in this new economic model that is coming to us, and which is inevitable. and that is why the common agricultural policy must above all support farmers in this transition. the whole point, commissioner, is to give ourselves the means to achieve such ambition and finally go beyond the effects of advertising.
mr president, for decades we have had a common agricultural policy which is not working well at the moment. the european court of auditors is also very critical in this respect. what's the problem? the greening measures we have in the common agricultural policy are being generalised here in brussels and farmers simply have to implement them. the only test is whether the farmer has actually implemented the measure. there is no regard for the actual result. i am very pleased that the previous commission has put forward a proposal to test the actual results, to give farmers the space to do what they are good at, namely to be entrepreneurial and to innovate, to ensure that they are motivated and to encourage that entrepreneurship in order to actually get that greening off the ground, and also to reward the results achieved by farmers in a good way. it'll work. for example, look at how the electric car has become very popular all over europe. that went exactly the same way. what i am very much afraid of now is that with this farm to fork strategy we are going back to the old policy, that we are simply going to re-introduce top-down measures from brussels that a farmer cannot get off his feet with. incorporate the green deal objectives into the common agricultural policy. focus on the outcome. reward for achievement. what we need to do in a farm-to-fork strategy is look at rules that don't work well. it is ridiculous that insect meal, for example, cannot still be used in animal feed. it is ridiculous that there are very few alternatives to low-risk products for crop protection. it is ridiculous that the nitrate directive still favours artificial fertilisers over animal manure. and it's ridiculous that breeding innovations are still not possible.
madam president, commissioner, the proposal for the reform of the cap is being discussed today by the european parliament on the basis of a copy prepared by the previous mandate, which does not correspond to the expectations of this new mandate, which has already voted on the climate emergency. and this emergency is very real. the cap reform proposal is totally out of step with these challenges, and you know that, commissioner. is the commission's 'fork-to-fork' strategy a way of overcoming these shortcomings? however, the cap remains, and must remain, a powerful lever to support and finance the agro-ecological transition of european farmers. so how does the commission intend to bring the current cap reform proposal into line with the new objectives introduced by the european green deal? how is it that one of the most important policies of the european union is decided before the strategy? how could the objectives of the green deal be achieved without mobilising the cap, which today has no clear common objective of reducing pesticides, protecting biodiversity, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving food sovereignty? citizens are counting on us, on our historic responsibility, to ensure that we do not miss the opportunity to transform our food systems sustainably at european level. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, my dear colleague, i understand that you do not agree with the farm-to-consumer strategy, that the cap cannot continue to work, and that we should no longer produce food in the european union. how do you imagine a european union without agricultural products, only imported? how do you think we will have greater food safety if we import from other member states and do not produce here? how are we going to provide for the livelihood of rural farmers when we have a very high percentage of citizens living in rural areas in the european union?
the answer is "blue cardboard". i didn't say i didn't agree. i ask that there be coherence, convergence between this fork-to-fork project and the common agricultural policy. so it's not exactly an opposition; i am simply saying that today i am surprised that a strategy is being put forward without the cap being finalised, or rather that this strategy is having an impact on the cap. one way or the other. as regards alternatives and the risk of undermining food sovereignty, today we must bring the obligations of protecting biodiversity and protecting the climate together, while continuing to produce a lot. and the answer is not more pesticides and synthetic fertilizers; it is the return to agronomy, for example.
mr president, a european food policy is essential if everyone is to have access to healthy, quality food. this policy must include the establishment of a plan to phase out pesticides and the immediate ban on the most dangerous, such as glyphosate; support for organic farming, which begins with the rejection of the reduction of the budget for the second pillar of the cap; reduction of meat protein consumption through the end of intensive livestock farming; the commission has also proposed to increase aid for crops for human consumption. but these changes will not happen without farmers who today cannot afford to live a decent life. because a handful of farms, owning huge areas, actually monopolise a large part of european funds. to distribute these funds better, we propose to take account of the number of assets rather than the area and to introduce a real ceiling on aid. we are fighting to increase aid to small farms by raising the redistributive payment to at least 30% of the budget, as proposed by the committee of the regions. only in this way can we enable our farmers to live well and meet the challenge of the ecological agriculture of tomorrow.
madam president, the days of sékou touré are long gone and the days of french influence in africa are long gone. today, guinea-conakry faces a heavy legacy, a desire to emancipate itself from colonial tutelage and serious difficulties in fulfilling the promises made by the state to the various components of guinean society. at the heart of the constant imbalances between its components, guinea-conakry is the subject of very heavy foreign interference which does nothing to improve the situation. the european nations and the united states may be intellectually opposed to the referendum coming to the country, but guinea-conakry is independent and that nation can freely choose to change its constitution, if that is its wish. today, president alpha condé is the subject of a great deal of criticism regarding his management of public order. yes, violence against protesters is unacceptable, but the violation of public order by protesters, as some documents reveal, is equally unacceptable. so do we simply want to continue to have influence in africa, or do we want to be erased from the face of china, russia or india? why should we be indignant at this constitutional reform, as one of my colleagues has said, when since 2000 more than 10 countries have decided to change their constitutions and some leaders have decided to prolong their stay in power? this resolution once again illustrates our impotence. if we want to play a role today, there is a referendum that must give the people of guinea the opportunity to choose or reject this constitutional reform, and i think we would be honored to make sure that this referendum takes place legally, honestly, but then it is up to the guineans to choose their constitution.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union is a long-standing partner of guinea, a country that has made major progress since the first democratic elections in 2010 that brought to power the current president alpha condé. the country’s stability and prosperity is important for the region, as it is for the european union. since the 2018 local elections, the sociopolitical situation has become increasingly tense. the prospect of a new constitution, raising the possibility for president condé to remain in power beyond the end of his second and last mandate, united opposition forces and the national front for the defence of the constitution and led to frequent demonstrations against a third mandate. these demonstrations have often been severely dispersed by security forces. opponents have been detained, and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression, were not respected. since mid-october 2019, around 30 demonstrators have lost their lives, allegedly killed by firearms by the security forces. the eu has repeatedly called for appropriate investigations to clarify the circumstances of these incidents and to hold those responsible accountable. in such a context, preparations for legislative elections, due on 1 march, only increased the tension. referring to strong doubts about the credibility of the voter list, two main opposition parties declared a boycott on the scrutiny. although eu electoral missions in 2015 and 2018 recommended a thorough review of the electoral rolls, which did not accurately reflect the electorate, such a review was only very partially conducted. the recent announcement that legislative elections will be coupled to a referendum on a new draft constitution presented in december, giving ground to president condé’s intentions, has further divided the country. there is now a clear risk of widespread instability and polarisation, including, dangerously, along ethnic lines. the eu has consistently, together with local partners – the un, the african union, the economic community of west african states (ecowas), the us and france – called for calm and has facilitated dialogue among the parties. the confidence of all in a credible and transparent electoral process is the best way to achieve participation and acceptance of the result. while every country has the right to amend or modernise its constitution, changing the fundamental law should build on an inclusive consultation leading to a large consensus, which is absent to date. holding a referendum months before presidential elections is not in line with the good practices recommended by the african union and ecowas. in particular, the west african region has gained its democratic credentials upon these principles. it is in this context that the spokesperson of high representative borrell last friday called for an inclusive dialogue to avoid further escalation of violence and to ensure conditions for transparent elections in which all parties can participate. only a climate where political and civic space is respected and human rights violations come to an end can create conditions conducive for such a dialogue. in order to reach this, all actors should put the unity and the peace of guinea first. we remain ready to contribute to such a process, working with our partners: the un, the african union and ecowas. the european union remains strongly engaged in guinea, also working with civil society and human rights defenders and with support for the resilience of the population. the guinea crisis should remain high on our agenda.
author. madam president, julie is 13 years old, but she will not be going back to school. for 20 cents a day, she will now make her way to the mine, in the sweltering heat of the malagasy summer. eight-year-old frederic's hands are scalded by the stigma of the mica mines where 11,000 young miners burn themselves to death. they are, after all, only a fraction of the estimated 73 million children around the world who are engaged in hazardous work in violation of international law. it is difficult to blame the malagasy state, whose efforts were recognized in 2016 by the us department of labor. the fault lies with global production chains that are willingly trampling on our laws and values. in this case, 87% of malagasy mica exports go to china to supply us with electronic equipment. our fine principles, which have been set up as treaties, will remain a dead letter as long as this race, which is at least social, reigns supreme, in defiance of ethics and humanity.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in agreement in this parliament that child labour in madagascar must be combated. this situation is untenable and cannot continue. any retreat would be unacceptable. the commission president, ursula von der leyen, has announced a zero-tolerance policy on child labour, but it would be hypocritical to say that without putting sufficient resources into it. the first tool is trade agreements. they must all include the issue of child labour through binding and enforceable chapters on human rights and sustainable development. a second tool is the corporate duty of care. it must be compulsory; several states are asking for it. companies must control their supply and be held accountable, in line with oecd standards. a third tool is the binding treaty on multinationals and human rights currently being negotiated at the un. the council must give the commission a mandate to move forward with this treaty and to achieve its rapid adoption. we need a strong resolution from this parliament: let us get to work.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are dealing with calls into question our model of world production based solely on the economy. making children work to export products as cheaply as possible to europe, with a minimum social, environmental and human cost: this is the ultra-liberal and productivist model that the european union defends and which leads to situations of exploitation of child labour, as is the case in the mines in madagascar. so, is this the economic model the european union wants? making children work? for the identity and democracy group, the future is in pragmatic localism, not globalism without borders. we believe it is time to return to a sensible protectionism which alerts the consumer to the origin of imports of products derived from child labour. how can we talk about ecology in this house when the human being is not respected? how can we continue to allow the import into europe of products of materials derived from the exploitation of child labour? with a europe of nations and intelligent protectionism based on fair trade and localism, this would not happen. with a europe that protects its peoples and nations, with a commission that serves the states and not the other way around, this would not happen. so, colleagues, listen to your people and their vote. it's time to act.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this so-called european parliament wants to present a resolution to the 64th united nations conference on the status of women. in this text, we find nothing about these thousands of young women murdered. nothing on laura, the 16-year-old girl who was slaughtered at the end of a grassy esplanade in sallaumines. sallaumines, it's not in iraq, it's not in afghanistan, it's not in colombia, it's not in the bronx. sallaumines, that's in europe; sallaumines is here in france. a thousand assaults every day in france, 140 sexual assaults every day in france. these tragedies, these horrors, these murders, we know them. you ask us, and i quote, to institutionalize intersectional analysis in all the organs of the united nations and in the european union. what does that mean? you want to label people as one-quarter european, three-quarters single, one-quarter female, three-quarter privileged? you're causing endless imaginary victims with your scraps of paper. you tolerate the fact that abusers still attack. the french will remember. i therefore supported the resolution of our ecr allies and voted against this text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time in three weeks that a resolution on equality between men and women has been voted. at the last plenary session, it was a text on income inequalities between men and women and today, therefore, it is a text on the priorities of the european union for the 64th session of the united nations commission on the status of women. once again, in this text, which was voted by a large majority in this house, i read that the solution to reducing inequalities between men and women is to increase women's pensions and, in addition, to develop the reversal pensions - those benefits which are paid to a widow or a widower when the spouse dies. i have seen that the french colleagues in the renew group, of the republic in progress, voted for this text as we did, and i want to denounce the double talk here: the double talk because these colleagues are voting for this resolution and, at the same time, in france, the government they represent, that of emmanuel macron, is restricting access to old age pensions with its pension reform. stop this double talk if you really want to make gender equality a reality.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, on 18 february, at the first meeting of the european parliament's gender equality network, our president, president sassoli, really touched me with his words when he said that equality must become an instrument for measuring our policies. we totally agree. women's rights, equality for women, is a human rights issue. today we are faced with emergencies that we understand. however, i would like to ask for your support on the advisability of rescheduling an exchange time once the emergency is over. it is essential that this house can express its views on the new strategy for gender equality which was published last thursday. i welcome the adoption of this long-awaited strategy, which is the best way to celebrate international women's day. and i would like to underline commissioner dalli's commitment to protecting and promoting women's rights. i will not go back on what my colleagues have already said. this strategy is very comprehensive. it includes important advances that must enable all women to live their lives free and equal, free from violence, free from stereotypes, free professionally, with the career they want throughout the european union. these women are our mothers, our daughters, our cousins, our sisters, our neighbors. this is our society. women's equality is a social project. a woman is at the head of the european commission. one european commissioner is dedicated exclusively to promoting equality and the european parliament has a large majority on the subject. all the stars seem to be aligned. however, we regret that in 2020 the council still lacks training on equality. the ministers for agriculture, fisheries and employment meet periodically, while the ministers for equality have no specific forum for meeting. it is urgent that women's rights and equality are placed at the top of the european political agenda and that a council dedicated to equality is established.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, women as the key driver of change, this title is revealing. unable to exist on their own, women would therefore need the support of international bodies, as if they were a minority. women are not just about rights or being victims. they are much more than that. she's not a man like the others either. we oppose the undifferentiated egalitarianism to which we are tending, equality of rights and freedom of choice. the european tradition has always given women a central role and no other civilization has celebrated femininity as much as ours. but this place of women that we have taken for granted in our way of life is doubly threatened. on the one hand, immigration and the islamisation of our societies. on the other hand, by the individualism of our liberal societies. unfortunately, these dangers are never denounced by the selective-indignation feminist movements. better yet, they are encouraged. these community lobbies claim to defend women, whereas feminism is above all a liberalism which pushes the individual to emancipate himself from collective structures and values at the expense of ethics. the two are isolated and regressing, as is shown by the innumerable cases of violence against european women. let's talk about change. what has the election of a woman to the commission changed for women? are promises better kept ? does the imposition of quotas or parity make things better? it is time to put an end to this ideological interpretation of the relationship between men and women and to show once and for all that women do not need the protective guardianship of the state or an institution to be free.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, for this speech on women's rights, allow me to address you dressed as rosie the riveter, an icon of the feminist struggle and a symbol in france of the current mobilization of women. this blue work shirt, red scarf and yellow cleaning gloves were worn by thousands of women on international women's day last sunday. we wore them to reject the 16% pay gap between women and men in europe. we have been wearing them for months now, to denounce a pension reform in france, of which women will be the big losers. we wore them to support the underpaid, invisible chambermaids of the luxury hotels. we wore them to highlight the double day for women, who spend almost twice as many hours on housework as men. we wore them to protect our right to dispose of our bodies, which is severely threatened in some european countries, including poland. we wore them to denounce sexual violence and the impunity enjoyed by the perpetrators protected by the circles of power. we wore them to rise and fall, like adele haenel in the face of the caesar of shame, attributed to polanski. we wore them to scream our anger at the unbearable and morbid number of femicides, including 149 in france in 2019 alone. we wore them despite the police crackdown that violently hit the nightly feminist marches held last saturday in paris. we also wore them, even though a french mp in the national assembly called us little assholes. we have worn them with pride, solidarity and combativeness. this weekend, hundreds of thousands of us marched against patriarchy across europe. so be forewarned, we will no longer be silent and we will no longer be waiting for the equality that is due to us. we will continue to sing the song of the women: 'let us rise, o women slaves, and break our fetters. get up, get up, get up!
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would like to start by expressing, on behalf of our group of the european united left, our full solidarity with those who are most affected by the coronavirus outbreak. i am thinking of the most vulnerable, the elderly, those already weakened by illness and who need our protection and care. i am thinking of course of the italian people, who have been severely affected by the epidemic and who need urgent support from the european union. my dear colleagues, crises expose the reality. they eliminate the superfluous to reveal the true face of our society, with its strengths and weaknesses. the coronavirus shows us how the dogmas of the past make us fragile, unstable, vulnerable, in the face of crises that the market is unable to handle. austerity has brought our public hospitals to their knees. all over europe, healthcare workers are mobilizing against the widespread decay of our healthcare systems. and it is in these hospitals, already suffocating, that doctors testify to the terrible dilemma of having to choose between two patients, faced with a shortage of equipment and staff. globalization and free trade have robbed us of our sovereignty. the result, it has been said, is that 80% of the active ingredients in our medicines are now produced outside europe. every global crisis puts us on the back foot. there's a shortage coming and our stalls are completely empty. deregulation allows unlimited speculation in the most vital goods. the price of alcohol gels, for example, has already tripled in a matter of days. so it took until the coronavirus to make the liberals aware of the ravages of the profit race and the virtues of market management. financialization has left the reins of our economy in the hands of irrationality and individualism, while the situation calls for cold-bloodedness, balance and cooperation. stock markets plummet and speculators are out of business, adding chaos to chaos. we must of course learn from the failure of this economic system to guarantee our countries stability, protection and resilience. we'll have to learn from this ordeal to regain control of the mad money that endangers us all. today, in the midst of the crisis, we are all united. but from tomorrow and every day after, we're gonna have to learn to be together again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of course i would first of all like to express my sympathy to all the victims of the virus which is disrupting everyone's lives. mr bruno le maire, french minister for the economy and finance, said yesterday: "there will be a before and after of this epidemic on the organisation of this global economy. we can see how important it is to think about better organising value chains and relocating a number of activities. other these words of our minister give substance to the discourse that marine le pen has been making on localism for weeks and months. but beyond mr le maire's admission, the coronavirus outbreak is for the european union a sign of the primacy of the europe of nations. when the health of the population is threatened, to whom do the peoples turn? to the nations. who can act quickly and effectively? the nations. who controls the borders? the nations. who decides the lockdown? the nations. the nations, not the commission administration, do not dislike it. this is despite the fact that mr lenarčič is making his voice heard. france is running out of masks. on 4 march, she decided to requisition the masks produced in her home. on 6 march, mr lenarčič criticised this initiative by the president of the french republic. even if it is legal, there is a risk that it will weaken our collective approach and our collective capacity to deal with the crisis, he said. in italy, germany, france and throughout europe, people are worried. so let the nations cooperate with each other and be effective at home.
madam president, madam commissioner, on this anniversary of yours, the time will come for the european union to take stock of this epidemic: our responsiveness, our capacity for coordination, our economic sovereignty. but that time has not come. the time has come for three types of political responsibility. the example: strong measures have been taken in this european parliament to limit our travel, which is a major factor in the spread of the virus, and these measures could be strengthened. solidarity: because it is the most vulnerable of our fellow citizens, the elderly, cancer patients, that we want to protect from one country to another and within a country. and then there's the education and communication that we need to do for our leaders and for our fellow citizens. i don't have time to go into detail on this diagram from a recent lancet article. read it. it explains how intellectual and collective protection measures can help contain the peak of the epidemic while maintaining the sustainability of health systems and economies. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue cardboard". prevention of infectious disease outbreaks is based on vaccination. the vaccination efforts are already being funded by the european union, with 10 million from a special fund horizon europe and 90 million from a public-private partnership fund, i.e. 45 million from the european commission and 45 million from the private sector. we can always do more and we may have a responsibility to ask that horizon europe prioritise vaccination. do i have time to answer just one question? on border security - (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, the coronavirus crisis is putting our societies to a severe test. it requires a calm and determined response, free from political polemics. this is a prerequisite for understanding and following the instructions, so that we can stop the spread of the virus. but this crisis also shows our weaknesses. first, there is the worrying situation of our healthcare systems being damaged by the european union's austerity policies. i would like to commend the exemplary work of the health workers, although i regret that they are often only considered in times of crisis. it is also the relationship of our societies to their environment. because we now know that the destruction of natural habitats, deforestation or intensive livestock farming promote the spread of this type of virus. finally, there is the question of our sovereignty in the production of medicines, which is being ignored by a total lack of strategic vision, which has led to the fact that 80% of the active ingredients of medicines are now produced outside the european union. so yes, let us respond together to the urgency of the moment but let us also learn from it for tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the spread of the coronavirus in all european countries is proceeding at an alarming rate. it is wrong to think that italy is a special case, since the data from other countries, such as france and germany, not only show an identical rate of increase in cases, but also nine days behind. i'm afraid not everyone has understood that yet. it is important to understand that italy is not the country most affected but the first to be affected, and that it has already taken drastic measures, which will have to be taken by all unless there is an extremely strong common reaction. thank you for your solidarity and support for the first measures that have been taken but it will not be enough: the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the middle east. we need a concrete, rapid and coordinated response at european level, primarily on health measures. a fiscal stimulus package is needed to address the negative economic impact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the social crisis. we are talking about many billions, to finance interventions to support businesses and families, employees, the self-employed and vulnerable groups such as the elderly who are alone. we need a european consortium for covid-19 research to develop a vaccine and a cure ourselves, to support the creation of a european procurement centre to source and sort materials needed for prevention and treatment, putting to rest any possible speculation and attempts at sabotage. we need to do this quickly, with a european parliament that is back in business as soon as next week. the european union today has the last call to show that it is not just a project of integration, which has seen its glory in the past decades and which is instead doomed to ruin, for not being able to adapt to a changing world, even in terms of global threats such as these. i believe in this project: we must believe in this and fight together with concrete and rapid action such as the one i have just mentioned, to defend the future of europeans and of humanity as a whole.
there is a blue—card request which i’m going to decline because of time purposes, so apologies for that.
madam president, commissioner kyriakides, responding to the emergency conditions caused by the spread of the coronavirus requires bold funding, strong political will and the involvement of all, but not all, citizens of the european union. today we call on the commission and the council to move quickly to adopt exceptional flexibility in the state aid rules so that member states can support the firms affected. in my country, greece, tourism accounts for 25% of gdp and tourism-related businesses are the first to suffer. this is why, especially for greece, it is necessary to have flexibility in the primary surplus side, since a quarter of our economic activity needs support now and not tomorrow. it is also necessary that we as member states show solidarity in practice and not be closed off, for example by banning the export of medical masks rather than encouraging or mandating their production. it is necessary and we can do it, to ensure that there is sufficient medicine and support necessary to deal with the virus. finally, to deal with the impact of the virus, it is necessary to involve everyone; to involve and strengthen national health systems. in greece we need staff for 150 more beds in intensive care units. to involve all the medical personnel in the private sector, strengthening private clinics, even when they have to close after detecting cases. we are here today to honor the nursing staff. but we need to look at the problem as a whole.
i would like to express my sympathy to the families of the victims and my appreciation to all the doctors and nurses who are helping the sick. millions of europeans are now staying indoors, leaving their shopping streets and leaving planes half empty, while shopkeepers are perversely trying to profit by charging 45 euros for a hand gel. the concerns about the economy are great. the oecd therefore speaks of the greatest threat to the world economy since the financial crisis, and that certainly applies to the eurozone: the interest rate is low and can't be much lower. so i'm not looking at christine lagarde, but i'm looking at the heads of government. the support of the economy must come entirely from the public budget to compensate for the supply and demand gaps. support for businesses, but also for people. because let us learn from the last crisis, when people complained that the banks were supported and the people were not. people deserve support too, especially the people with the lowest stock market who have no savings at hand. it is precisely them that we must help by increasing, for example, the income supplement. finally, it is precisely now that budgetary rules must not stand in the way, it is precisely now that coordinated european stimulus must be given, and it is precisely now that i hope for european solidarity in which the countries most affected also get the most. this is the moment when the heads of government must act.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, there are now two very clear dimensions on which europe must act: the health dimension and the economic dimension. on the health dimension, can you tell us how you have gone from a simple exchange of information between the different countries, with the european commission, to common positions? i feel we are still in the phase where you learn from the press what governments decide to do. that is why we support the idea of a european council on this subject, at a distance of course, convened at the initiative of the president of the french republic. i hope that this council will be held today and that it will improve the health response at european level. and now, there's the economic answer. and there are two issues here. the first challenge is to be able to free up cash in the very short term so that companies which suffer supply disruptions but have to pay their expenses and salaries can continue to live and not file their balance sheets. the second element is a longer-term one: possibly a fiscal stimulus package that should link up with the green deal for europe. i do not insist on this, otherwise we ourselves would be incoherent.
madam president, i thank the medical professionals who work to provide a health service. in the face of this crisis, let us ensure that in the majority of european countries we can rely on a fair and supportive health system that allows everyone, regardless of income, to have access to appropriate care. in some countries, such as the united states, this is not the case, since the poorest people have to pay for medical expenses they cannot afford. this crisis is a key moment for our society that must demonstrate solidarity and civility. today, we must be willing to give up certain privileges to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. now is the time to stand together and to care for the weakest among us. tomorrow, when all this is behind us, we will have to reap the consequences of these difficult months. when i see the images of empty shelves in supermarkets all over france, i think of the people who don't have the chance to eat every day or have a roof over their heads or be sure that their loved ones are well. i am thinking in particular of refugees and the homeless, the undocumented and the marginalised of all kinds. let us remember this crisis and show more humanity to those who suffer silently every day.
madam president, in the face of this coronavirus outbreak, we need a real european response to implement coherent rules that reassure citizens and meet this challenge. much has been said about the response to the crisis, but i would also like to draw on this experience to look to our future and see what has not been done. if we are so worried today, it is also because we feel helpless in the face of this crisis. thirty years ago, europe imported 20% of the active ingredients used in medicines. in 30 years, we have gone up to 80%, and these products now come mainly from china or india. we see it today, we cannot remain with a simple doctrine of competition which pushes us to outsource the production of those goods which are necessary for our simple survival in a crisis like this. we need an industrial strategy, we need a health strategy and we need to look to our future together, trying to protect ourselves against the threats that are coming, rather than reacting too late as we are doing today. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are facing a dilemma today on a subject like this. if we want to guarantee the health workers who are fighting this epidemic with courage today, particularly in italy, we must be able to provide them with the resources they need for their work and their commitment.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by distancing myself from the speaker and what he said. it's a disgrace to this house! and i want to make one thing clear: a volunteer has said one thing about what we are experiencing at the eu's external border, using a word: apocalypse. it comes from the greek for revelations, in christianity it's called revelation. and the revelation from the council and, incidentally, from mr weber is quite obvious: first secure the border, and then at some point the people will come. all i can say is no, we're not going to do that. and the revelation i have just mentioned also means that instead of immediately sending the people who are stuck there to the member states, we should follow the call of the cities of solidarity - in germany alone there are 138 cities that would immediately take in refugees - and tolerate, the council above all, inhumanity and violence. they value pacts with dictators more than the lives of the people outside the eu gates. that's the truth. the right of asylum, which was established after the second world war, is being undermined. i would also like to say very clearly to the commissioner that you too must decide whether you want to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would point out that i will not allow any blue cards if i have had to withdraw the floor from the speaker concerned because he has exceeded his speaking time. no, i have documented it accurately, mrs ernst. mr weber crossed the line at 3 minutes 26 seconds, mrs garcía pérez crossed it at 2 minutes 30 30 seconds, and mrs int veld crossed it at 2 minutes 19 seconds. the others were in time. you've overshot the mark by 1 minute and 15 seconds, so i'm not gonna give you a blue card.
mr president, the united states, nato and the european union are competing with russia for energy control, leading to the break-up of syria and waves of uprooted refugees. they support turkey in its invasion of syria, its unacceptable claims to the aegean, cyprus and libya in exchange for its detachment from russian influence. the turkish bourgeoisie is trying to take advantage of the victims of these plans, the refugees who are being persecuted, who are being trapped on the greek islands by dublin and the eu-turkey declaration, by giving a boost to the far-right gangs. the greek government supports greece becoming a prison of the european union, disregarding the mass uprising of the islanders, and is involved in imperialist projects, while calling in foreign military forces like frontex at the border. the european union must now denounce dublin and the eu-turkey agreement and its plans to resurrect it! the european union and the un should be responsible for organising asylum procedures within turkey, with full respect for the rights of refugees, and for their immediate transfer to the countries of their final destination.
mr president, turkey is provoking the european union by using human lives. our first concern must always be the lives of all those on the border. immigrants are not the culprits, they are the victims. and we must also stand with the government and the people of greece, who are doing everything possible to prevent this crisis from getting worse. the greek government is faced with the difficult situation of protecting the border of all using the resources of only one of the 27 states. greece needs our solidarity, it needs the real and direct support of the european union. what is happening is not a greek problem, it is a european problem. that is why my group has proposed the immediate deployment of 2,000 border and coast guard officers, the activation of the union civil protection mechanism and financial assistance of eur 1 billion to help the authorities in greece and bulgaria in managing the migration crisis. and above all, we need to put an end to improvisation and short-term means once and for all. we need a common migration policy for the whole of the european union; a policy that addresses real migration problems, that saves lives, that protects our borders and in which all member states participate equally, that is, sharing the same rights, the same obligations and the same responsibilities with regard to migrants arriving in europe. finally, this parliament must demand that turkey immediately put an end to this escalation which only serves to endanger thousands of human lives and is a cruel and inhumane escalation.
mr president, if there’s one thing we know for sure, it is that after nine years the war in syria is not over. only in the last weeks we have seen one million people fleeing from idlib. and what did the eu do during the last four years? we stopped relocating people from greece. we were not able to fulfil all the promises made to ankara in 2016, of course partly due to the human rights situation in turkey, but also because no eu leader was willing to put money on the table to continue financing 3.7 million syrians living in that country. we failed to set up a real asylum system and we looked away from the misery in syria. finally, last week eu leaders acknowledged the urgency of this crisis. ursula von der leyen spoke at the greek border about greece being the shield that protects europe. a shield from what? the misery of vulnerable people fleeing war? we don’t need a shield for that, we just need to close our eyes – something we have been doing for way too long. it’s time to act, strike a new agreement with ankara, and help the real people on the greek islands.
mr president, greece is once again the epicentre of the european union's wanderings. after suffering the full brunt of an irrational financial organization and the dictates of european agencies, greece is left behind in the face of its old ottoman enemy. today, the european union is content to invite mr erdogan while he is attacking us, using human misery to serve his expansionist and violent ambitions. an ambition served by a conquering islamism which today acts right to the heart of our nations. the role of the european parliamentarians is to stand by the greek people, mobilized to defend their country. this is what the french delegation from the identity and democracy group has done, since our colleagues jordan bardella and jérôme rivière are currently on the greek-turkish border. we cannot accept this turkish aggression, which is all the more cowardly because it is orchestrated by immigrants who have been turned into unwilling mercenaries of president erdogan. commissioner, you want to continue the dialogue, the only language mr erdogan understands is the balance of power.
question with a blue card. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i ask you: how do you feel about the fact that the greek government is not asking for fair relocation of refugees throughout the european union, that the european leadership came and said take some money but did not say we want to share it... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, in view of the enormity and complexity of this drama, simplifications are not enough, nor is it enough to point out the guilty. the first priority is the victims, the thousands of human beings who are being hounded on the greek islands in hellish conditions, and we must demand, without any ritual of indignation, immediate and medium-term responses from those responsible. i would like to make one thing clear: greece is not a third country. greece is us. it is the european union and its border is ours. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. and that is why greece is calling for solidarity. but that does not mean that we are endorsing the brutal practices of greek neo-nazis with xenophobic violence, nor are we accepting the unilateral suspension of the right of asylum, nor the unilateral invoking of article 78, which requires the involvement of all the institutions and also of the european parliament. the immediate need is for humanitarian corridors, for mandatory relocations for unaccompanied minors, but also for vulnerable people, and, of course, for the asylum, migration and integration fund to be mobilised. but in the medium term: the pact on migration and asylum, which we await with binding solidarity and shared responsibility... (the president withdrew the floor).
blue card questions. what are you talking about? i share mr kofod's analysis of mr erdogan, and i do not think that many people here want to defend what mr erdogan is doing. i just have to ask mr kofod a question: all this blame on the eu system and us not being able to find solutions - what is the alternative, mr kofod? what is it that the id group wants to propose that can resolve this unfortunate situation, if not some form of european community?
mr president, i am disgusted with this. greece and the european union are in total illegality. article 2 of the treaty provides that the union is founded on respect for human dignity and human rights. article 78 states that the union shall respect the principle of non-refoulement, in accordance with the geneva convention. and here is what is happening today: suspension of the right to asylum, pushing back at the borders, use of weapons. so, in addition to being inhuman, all of this is completely illegal. but these boats of migrants that are being tried to sink are the sinking of europe, ladies and gentlemen! i am also disgusted by this agreement with turkey, which we denounce and which is coming back to us like a boomerang. finally, i am appalled by the sham of european leaders who want to welcome isolated miners today, when three months ago no country responded to greece's call for help. our leaders are a bunch of cowards who play the extreme right by pretending to fight it. by donning their military uniforms and closing the borders, they are feeding fear and preparing a way for him to come to power. this is the best way to fight the far right: by staying aligned with those humanist values that we believe in, by telling the truth, by taking responsibility instead of throwing yourself away by writing a check to erdogan. enough now, let's return to our founding values of solidarity and humanism!
mr president, commissioner, five years have passed and europe is facing a new migration and humanitarian crisis. we expected it, we knew we had to find solutions but, unfortunately, we waited for mr erdogan to remind us of our inertia. commissioner, we have no more excuses. we have to do something. calls on the council to stop ignoring parliament's position. let him take responsibility and come back to the negotiating table. i ask the commission to propose a new european pact on immigration and asylum as soon as possible. there's no time to waste. greece (greece of the economic crisis, greece of the migration crisis) has been teaching lessons of humanity for years. but as you can see, like atlas, it can no longer shoulder the responsibility for 27 countries on its own. i'll finish in greek. greece does not need donations. it needs the solidarity of its partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, humanely or not, with or without understanding of the situation, we have just spoken of a tragedy which is nothing compared to what will happen in a few weeks or months at the most, when the compromise reached between russia and turkey will be shattered by reality. at that time, one million, two million, three million people will want to cross into turkey. the situation will become totally untenable. we, the european countries, must prepare ourselves, because the union as such cannot. but we, the member states, can. we must prepare to organize a "no fly zone" over idlib to protect these populations, avoid a catastrophe and move towards a peace agreement.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first like to express, on behalf of our group of the european united left, our sincere condolences to the victims and their families affected by the epidemic. i also address these words to those whose work, which was constantly denigrated, is now vital for all. ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crossroads, facing an unprecedented health crisis and facing an economic and social crisis. a europe that protects, a europe united in diversity, a europe of solidarity - these are the slogans that the european union has been proud to use. either we finally give them a concrete meaning, or they will be swept away and the union will collapse with them. a europe that protects first would look after its essential workers. a french nurse in ehpad relayed the heartfelt cries of thousands of european nurses. she said, "we want masks, fucking masks!" without protection, our grandparents die by the hundreds in the ehpads of the vosges, île-de-france, madrid or milan. before we applaud the nurses, the cashiers and all those on whom our lives depend, let's help them. we should not wait for the goodwill of companies, but should order and produce the health protection we need. a united europe, then, must ensure a coordinated health response. but when italy stops all non-essential production, the french government threatens companies that want to suspend their activity. the result: deliveroo delivery men, airbus technicians, construction workers, many employees today who continue to work their asses off in sectors that are not essential, even until now, the gardeners of the european parliament whom i met this morning. when spain borders, the netherlands plays the herd immunity card. while germany is testing its population en masse in accordance with who recommendations, other states are waiting passively for patients at the gates of their hospitals. viktor orbán, for his part, took the opportunity to claim full powers in the deafening silence of the european union. the czech republic and italy are even fighting over supplies of masks. this is the sad face of a deeply disunited europe we are seeing today in the face of a crisis that will not spare any member state. the solidarity of peoples should, however, give a reason for being to a europe which has never been united by competition. let's put in place a common health plan, list the industries that are essential and protect the other workers. let us share our production of sanitary equipment, and finally define clear guidelines and a common strategy to anticipate the lifting of the lockdown in all european states. this is how we can envisage a way out of the health crisis on our interdependent continent. otherwise, the epidemic will come back like a boomerang. finally, a europe of solidarity would do everything possible today to protect the poorest and most vulnerable in the face of the economic crisis that is coming. the immediate setting up of an emergency fund thanks to the work of the regi committee, which i would like to commend, is a step in the right direction. the suspension of the stability and growth pact is shaking the obsession with austerity, but many other taboos will have to fall, starting with monetary policy, which must serve states and citizens rather than banks. the old recipes of neoliberalism must not survive the virus. it is not these old dogmas that we must protect, but the peoples of europe, whatever the cost.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the group of the european united left, how can we not share, first of all, our thoughts with the victims, our tribute to the carers and all those on the front line, and our parliament's call for solidarity in the face of the economic, health and social crisis which is hitting the peoples of europe hard? in the face of the storm, european states owe themselves collective and disinterested assistance. we know that joint health planning is essential to protect us all. but let us be clear: all hope is lost as long as our assembly is left to contemplate, almost in a state of hypnosis, the debacle of european government coordination. our role today must go beyond that, we must first be clear about the causes of the disaster. how is it that in the joint resolution before us today there is not a single word, not a single mention of the responsibility for the budget cuts in our public health systems? how can we discuss the health crisis without clearly acting on the dark record of austerity? 100 000 beds closed in 20 years in france, 14% of the intensive care beds in europe disappeared in 10 years. yes, dear colleagues, austerity is killing! and we in the european parliament should turn a blind eye? the overwhelming of our health care services doesn't come out of nowhere. the european commission recommended member states to reduce their health expenditure 63 times between 2011 and 2018. the liberal governments could not have asked for a better pretext, moreover, to justify the destruction of our hospitals. we should have recognized this evidence to draw political lessons from it. today, therefore, it was our duty to express our firm rejection of any austerity conditions for the benefit of european funds such as the european stability mechanism. the result is terrible. while its people are dying, italy does not know whether to accept this poisoned gift from the union and i am ashamed of the embarrassed silence of our assembly in the face of the impossible dilemma imposed on the italians: sink or surrender. this taboo conceals another, equally absent from our debates, namely that of public debts, which the liberals are using as a sword of damocles to weigh down the peoples of europe. i can't believe you haven't seen this little music coming in, being sung by the employers' unions and the governments that serve them: the crisis is expensive, we're going to have to make an effort, we're going to have to work harder. honestly, we don't need to listen to the song until the chorus because we already know it very well: the people will have to pay for the crisis, and especially the poorest who are already suffering the full brunt of it. your homage to all the professions on the front line will then sound very false when you ask them for sacrifices. as if the rollback of social rights and austerity were the only way forward, as if this debt were inexorable, insurmountable, condemning us to tighten our belts for decades to come. rather than remain prisoners of this logic, we should remember the words of the illustrious prisoner albert camus: "what i am interested in at the moment is to escape from the mechanics, to know if the inevitable can have a way out". and we know the way out. first, by saying that the cost of the crisis must be shared fairly, by calling on the big fortunes, the multinationals and tax evaders to contribute, and then by claiming the need to use monetary policy to avoid the use of austerity. why should we rule out any real debt pooling? why should the european central bank be prevented from directly financing the states, as the bank of england has just announced? why refuse to raise the question of the gradual cancellation of the debts of the crisis, as has already been done in the history of our continent? it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to break all these taboos. it is the only way to ease the strain on the epidemic today and the climate challenge tomorrow. but all these issues, and i regret it, you prefer to ignore. this is what a strong parliament should have defended in order to weigh in on the current debates, which unfortunately it too often ignores. let us not be such dazed spectators and let us have, yes, let us have the courage to overturn the old dogmas that have led us to disaster.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to believe that the text we are voting on today is the most important of the mandate. why? because i firmly believe that this resolution is the result of the european people, that in this terrible crisis we have succeeded in finding - through this text - the general european interest. this text is neither nordic nor latin, neither eastern nor western. it's not owned by any of our political families. it is only for the carers of bergamo, madrid and mulhouse that we have called for a european health strategy. it is for cashiers, bus drivers and families that we want a sovereign europe to produce its masks and protective equipment. it is for our jobs, our smes, our very small businesses that we are asking for more money from the european investment bank. it is for the democrats of this continent that we defend the rule of law in hungary. finally, it is our french, italian, slovak and dutch children, those who will enter the labour market in the next three or five years, whom we are protecting and want to invest in together. investing together by raising debt together without pooling past debts. that's what our people tell us too. mr president, this empty chamber is a little misleading because this institution is always filled with the aspirations of the peoples of europe. we are here representing a hundred political parties from all over europe, we are the people of europe, elected by the europeans, and we have an agreement. i do not want to prejudge what will be voted in the next few weeks but we have reached an agreement. so why does the european union seem so divided today? the european council is against the tide of european public opinion which agrees with the main principles of this resolution which we are about to vote on. i have only one message, mr president, and it is addressed to the members of the council. ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government, you were looking for an agreement, look no further, it is there and it brings together all the ambitions. it is the expression of the european people, efficiency, democracy and our values. so listen to parliament, listen to these citizens, listen to the meps. we have not acted like party leaders here in negotiating this resolution, we have taken our responsibilities, so it is your turn to live up to that commitment.
mr president, when it comes to health crises, unpreparedness is deadly and indecision is guilty. and when it comes to denouncing nationalism and populism, the european union showed, at the beginning of this crisis, unpreparedness and indecision. washing our hands is not enough when our health systems are crucified and our economies are in tatters. when societies are faced with crises of the magnitude of the coronavirus, they actually have an alternative: myth or fantasy. myth is about a collective imagination and shared principles. fantasy, on the other hand, distracts people's attention from dreams whose european history is full of brutal awakenings. first of all, i want to think about the ravages of the doctrines of the european union and its zealous servants. in france, it is this government that presents social security budgets that are undergoing a continuous decrease and which were still required, in 2020, to save 4.2 billion euros, of which almost one billion on hospital expenses. the €3 billion the european union is offering the member states will not compensate for the damage to budgetary savings in recent years. so austria and denmark propose their own deconfinement strategy. well, right now, the commission wants to present a unified plan, not to fight the coronavirus but to gain credibility at the expense of the nations. germany decides to close its borders at the outbreak of the crisis, so the european commission protests to defend the free movement of schengen rather than human lives. with the recession and the financial and economic crisis looming large on the labour market, the commission is forced to suspend all regulations as they would worsen the recession. so what is a financial architecture that has to be torn down and removed with every crisis really worth? the european commission is taking advantage of the people's disquiet to continue its ideological agenda: accession of albania and macedonia to the european union, continuation of the enlargement of the union, pressure to increase the contribution to the european budget. the peoples will look at those who have lulled them into fantasies and draw conclusions. tpe-smes with a localized scope will remember that they cannot enjoy privileged access to the markets of their region because of european rules. large companies unable to adjust their workforce without social disruption will remember that the union is the economic entity that protects and supports our national champions the least. our farmers without fixed prices and quotas are cursing the unbridled free trade which they were sold as profitable. the countries which could benefit from the european solidarity mechanism cannot do so because they know that it is not the people who will judge its effectiveness but an administration in brussels. national diplomacies must now prevent the floods of migration that will inevitably follow the crisis. meanwhile, the foreign service is proving ineffective on the ground in libya and turkey, where the future coronavirus migrants will come from tomorrow. it is the myth of antigone, european if anything, which should guide our action. you know, antigone, he was willing to be sentenced to death rather than obey the wicked laws. sophocles put these words in his mouth: "i do not recognize as a friend one who loves only in words". our european commission would do well to ask what happened to creon and its city.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has been witnessing a great deal of solidarity between the member states for weeks. however, i am concerned that in some member states - including those with political responsibility - the impression is given that countries such as china and russia are still helping more than the european union and our member states. we should all be more aware of where solidarity is already being shown today - with doctors, with ventilators, with protective equipment and with billions of dollars - and we should all be taking the lead and effectively countering this false news of the supposedly large amounts of aid from some countries outside. and we should not have the same old argument here in parliament: some are demanding money from other countries without any conditions, while others are rightly afraid that a troika will dictate conditions as in the last crisis. but if we agree within the european budget, that is to say within the european institutions, on a common plan for the reconstruction of europe's member states and of europe's economy, then that would be a joint approach in which no one is overruled, no one is overlooked, no one is given anything, but where we could agree together on a common path. and this common approach would therefore also be useful to ensure that national measures in one member state do not directly counter policy in another member state. and secondly, i would urge that we maintain the necessary protections for our citizens, but at the same time restore as much personal freedom as possible as quickly as possible. and an important building block could be an app, which is what we are calling for in our resolution. and it's very important to me that we make sure that this app is developed in a coordinated way across europe, that it's compatible in all member states, that cross-border traffic is really possible. and if we decide today or tomorrow that the data should be stored as decentrally as possible, this should not lead to google and apple blocking the project, compromising or taking over or gaining access to the data, but our democratically elected commission and our democratic member states will certainly guarantee better data protection than these companies.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, pedro sanchez is right and you are right when you say that we need a real marshall plan if europe is not to fall into a crisis worse than that of 1929. the first marshall plan, it was up to 4% of the gdp of the countries concerned, 4% of the gdp for several years. today, no country alone can finance a truly massive recovery plan, no country alone can find the necessary resources. and if they are financed by debt, the stimulus packages will be too weak and short-lived. that is why europe is the solution, it is at the european level that we can find new resources. we have to remember what roosevelt did when he first came to power. the country was devastated. roosevelt, to create millions of jobs, decides to triple the federal budget, he's going to triple the federal budget in a few years. but roosevelt is a solid man, he wants a balanced budget, and to have a balanced budget, he creates new resources. it creates a federal income tax, it creates a federal income tax on the richest. obviously, the first year, it doesn't work and roosevelt takes on debt, he bounces for a few years. but then, because his stimulus package is so massive, those taxes pay off and the budget is balanced. we have to do the same, we have to move very quickly on new resources. when i was a kid, the corporate tax rate in europe was 45%. today, it has fallen to 20%. the tax on profits was halved while dividends, on the contrary, doubled. we must make progress on this tax, create a european tax on profits, fight against tax evasion, put a small tax on financial transactions. today, some countries are blocking new resources, because it is a general budget for msf. but these same countries are asking for faster progress on the green deal. they will not block if these new resources go to a marshall plan for climate and jobs. so, mrs von der leyen, do not be afraid, mrs von der leyen, be roosevelt, and i will not be afraid of you, but i will be with you. we need a marshall plan for climate and jobs.
in writing. instead of rebooting the savings of the french, why not focus on advertising expenditure to save our tpe? some traders, artisans, restaurateurs, hoteliers or self-employed workers suffer dramatically from the lockdown triggered by the french government's unpreparedness. while the brussels commission talks about a €3 trillion plan, the amending budgets actually voted in the european parliament on 17 april are 1000 times smaller. brussels dreams of billions of dollars printed in luxembourg or frankfurt, but who will pay the bill or the platinum guarantees? instead of raising taxes on the french, or even taking 10% of their savings as the imf (international monetary fund) might advocate, it would be wise for the states to focus on non-essential spending. advertising spending is €100 billion in the media in europe and 8% of insurance company turnover. an exceptional 40% contribution to advertising expenditure could be a path to explore, identifying tens of billions of euros. very small businesses with 20 or fewer employees should receive our support as a priority.
in writing. the european union is facing the most serious health crisis in its history. every day, across the union, healthcare workers are bravely adapting to the evolution of a deadly virus, which was still unknown in december. in addition to the health crisis, there is an economic crisis of an unprecedented scale. this historic situation calls for a historic european response. with this resolution, the european parliament is showing that it is up to the task. we have reached an ambitious and unprecedented agreement across national borders and political divides. the european union is committed to solidarity by calling for european bonds, guaranteed by our common budget, which will enable the countries most affected to continue to finance themselves. climate ambitious, by placing the european green deal and climate neutrality at the heart of our recovery strategy. finally, we are ambitious about our values, condemning the authoritarian excesses of the polish and hungarian governments, which are using the crisis to flout the fundamental principles of the rule of law. parliament is leading the way. heads of state and government must be able to live up to it, so that these health and economic crises are not compounded by a political crisis. it's about the survival of our union.
for the greens/efa group dear colleagues, for the past three months, nurses, doctors, nursing assistants, cashiers, sweepers, garbage men, delivery men and, recently, teachers have been putting their lives on the line to ensure the continuity of ours. for the past three months, european citizens have shown a huge wave of solidarity: help for isolated elderly people, food donations, the making of masks, shared childcare. there's no such thing as initiative anymore. for three months our citizens have been taking their responsibilities, but they are impatient - and rightly so. because in the meantime, what are the european leaders doing? i have heard you, mr michel, and i welcome your statements in favour of a joint response and a reduction of differences within the european union. but the reality is that when we look at the action of the heads of state and government, when it comes to implementing this solidarity at the financial level, they are lagging behind. they procrastinate. they are locked into the logic of each for himself. for more than a decade, some have raised the question of solidarity in moralistic terms, as if the european union were divided into two camps: the camp of the member states considered to be virtuous and, on the other hand, the camp of the member states considered to be sinners. of course, the public administration of the greek, italian and spanish governments has not always been without fault. but it was the successive dutch governments that set about waging a veritable tax war against the rest of europe. it was the german government that defended a car industry that cheated all the way. it is the scandinavian banking supervisory authorities that have allowed the biggest money laundering networks to develop in the last decade. at the same time, greece, italy and spain were taking far more than their share of the refugees, thus saving europe's honour. there is no doubt that within the union all member states have things to be ashamed of and all member states contribute something to our common prosperity. so let's put these moralizing arguments behind us. what is at stake is the very raison d'être of the european union, a project launched 70 years ago with solidarity as its cornerstone. this solidarity is motivated by our common interest: to ensure lasting prosperity for our fellow citizens, to regain the capacity to face together the existential challenges of our time. it is therefore in our common interest to jointly design, finance and implement our economic redeployment strategy. and this, following a very simple principle: from each according to his ability to each according to his needs. it is through a common loan that we will be able to finance this great project and it is through a common european fiscal justice that we will repay it. parliament has understood this well: the re-launch and ecological transition of our economies require a real community leap forward. if we fail this test of fire, that will be the end of monetary union and, eventually, of the european union. european citizens have done their part. it is up to you, european leaders, to do your part! if you fail to rise to this historic challenge, who can forgive you?
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, looking back over the past few weeks, i do not think that europe has excelled in its timely and coherent response to the pandemic. but we can make up for that in the coming weeks with the discussion on the multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan. as regards the recovery plan, we shall vote tomorrow in parliament on a text which gives clear indications of what is needed. the text will also be supported by my group. and there's a lot of money at stake. that's normal too. the scale and gravity of this crisis require a substantial budgetary foot. but this often ignores the things that don't cost money directly but can make a substantial contribution to fighting the pandemic and certainly to economic recovery. president von der leyen, among others, has already stressed the importance of the internal market. that importance cannot be overemphasized. the internal market plays a crucial role in the recovery of economic activity and employment. secondly, investment. of course they're important. private investment, but also public investment. i think it is high time we said goodbye to a very rigid eurostat rule on the accounting of public investment. it's really holding back the economy. a third point which is gaining in importance every day is what i would call the need for geopolitical protection. we see international groups and investment funds raising billions every day in the international capital markets. they do this, of course, to strengthen their liquidity, but it is clear that they are also building a war chest. i think we need to take some pretty strong measures to prevent hostile takeovers. temporary measures, but still. finally, we must be determined to break the spiral of fear and uncertainty, which will be the main factor in the recovery in the weeks and months ahead.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european union is at a crossroads. will it continue its self-destructive course of austerity and cutbacks and fail as a project? or will it become a genuine community of solidarity, 75 years after the end of the second world war and 70 years after the schuman declaration? but while the european population, suffering from the virus, has been waiting for a clear political signal of unity and solidarity, the member states have been fighting among themselves for weeks, mr michel. and in this period, those who have been the first to pay the price in recent years for the cuts in public services - with poor wages and miserable working conditions, with insufficient infrastructure - are keeping society going. and these workers, mr weber, not only deserve our thanks, they deserve better working and living conditions. as a result of the eu summit, the european stability mechanism is now lending €240 billion to member states, initially without conditions, but in the form of loans. i wonder, mrs von der leyen, what will happen when the debt rules come back into force? are the member states that use the european stability mechanism heading for another debt crisis? and what will the commission do then? will it then recommend cuts in health care, cuts in social security, cuts in infrastructure, cuts in pensions? will public property be privatized again? and is it threatening those who are already bearing the brunt of the corona crisis with decades of austerity because, in your speech, you explicitly referred to the european semester process? and that means nothing more than cuts and privatization in public services, a halt to foreign investment in the infrastructure needed, and also a halt to the task that the great european union is actually facing, namely mastering the digital transformation and the green new deal. instead, it is time to abolish the stability and growth pact once and for all. we need a social investment drive and we need to reverse privatisation and the cutting of public services. we are faced with the big question - we are all faced with this - of how to achieve economic and social recovery in the european union. the commission has been given the thankless task of finding the square of the circle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it needs a bold eu budget, fed both by substantially higher contributions from the member states on the one hand and by real own resources on the other, i.e. collected through a european digital tax, collected through a comprehensive financial transaction tax and, yes, also collected through - i repeat this - a wealth tax on the richest 1% of the european population. the rich and the corporations must do their part in the reconstruction of europe. the commission has therefore decided to set up a fund for the reconstruction of the region, the amount of which and the financing arrangements for it are still unclear, despite what it has said. the funds are then to be channelled to the member states in the form of grants or loans. if there is credit, then that in turn increases the likelihood of a debt crisis in the future. corona bonds, on the other hand, would have been a proper first step to then, in the next step, find a way to an ecb that directly supports the public finances in the eurozone. but there's a lack of courage on all sides of this house. the eu must decide which path it will take: continued austerity or solidarity. my group has made a clear and unequivocal decision: we want to take the path of solidarity with the people of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, time is free but priceless, you cannot own it but you can use it, you cannot keep it but you can spend it. once you lose it, though, you can't get it back. the time: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i share the democratic choice to anchor it in the multiannual budget, but it needs to be made clear - and i ask you, mr von der leyen, to make it clear precisely - how to anticipate it. i would ask you to reiterate that those who still enjoy the privilege of the rebates have a moral duty to give them up, whereas it would be unfair to ask the most affected states to increase their net contributions. the alternative exists and this parliament is reiterating it: new own resources from the digital giants, polluting emissions and financial transactions, to launch a major reconstruction plan based on transfers of lost funds, ready by summer. timing and courage: just like our doctors are in the aisle every day, your choices and your non-choices will save lives or take lives. there is no more room for tactics and selfishness if we are to get out of this crisis together. this is the moment of truth.
president of the european council. mr president, i would like to thank you very briefly for the messages that have been delivered. just a few points very quickly. firstly, whatever the extremist, populist and demagogic critics say about europe, the history of the european union is a history which has revealed an unprecedented added value in the history of humanity in terms of prosperity, rights and freedoms. we must not cease to recall this european achievement, whatever the demagogues and populisms. second point. we have all said it, each one of us in our own words, our own sensitivities, our own approaches: we are faced with - we feel it - again at a crucial moment. it's the responsibility of a generation to live up to it. and indeed, mr weber, i share your view: this is not the time to compete in legitimacy. the european institutions are democratic: the european parliament, which directly represents the european citizens, and the member states, represented by governments, who each week face political accountability before their national assemblies. it seems to me that this legitimacy must also be respected, and of course the commission must be a driving force, a political driving force to fuel the dynamics of this european debate. be assured, however, that i, for my part, will do everything i can with my colleagues in the european council to ensure that we not only do not fight a futile battle at institutional level, but that we are mobilised, with our hands folded, on the issues that are now on the table: what is the amount needed for the mff and for the recovery fund, how is it to be financed, how is the borrowing and the subsidies to be distributed to ensure that there is this capacity to forge a political compromise that is useful for european citizens, how is the digital agenda to be successful, how is this climate agenda to be successful? because those problems that were there before didn't go away afterwards. on the contrary, they must be levers of hope, because europe has shown that we have the talent, the intelligence, the resources. our main resource is the citizens of europe. it is our responsibility to rise to the occasion, and you can be sure that i am taking the hand that this parliament has extended to the european council and i am pleased to be very committed, very mobilised to work with you and to ensure that we can meet this challenge successfully.
mr president, since the beginning of this crisis, the european union helped where it was needed. we enabled medical personnel, doctors, to help where their support was most needed – medical equipment, treatments to be allocated to those countries and those regions where they were most needed – and for eu funds to be allocated in the most flexible of ways to tackle this crisis wherever they are needed. the european commission proposed good measures and parliament agreed. now we need to prepare for the future. and in order to make the best decisions, all institutions of the european union have to be involved. members of the european parliament come from all regions of europe. they are close to the citizens and they know best the situation on the ground. this is why today we say we want the european parliament to be involved in the creation of the recovery fund. we want the european parliament to be involved in the planning, in the adoption and the implementation of this fund, because we believe this will make the recovery fund a better fund. everywhere in the world, the government proposes budgets and the parliament adopts those budgets. we are presenting today a resolution on behalf of five political groups, which represents a large majority in parliament, where we say we demand an ambitious recovery fund, which is composed of loans and grants, which help on the ground, which make a real difference on the ground. and we want this, not to increase the burden on member states, on countries, we want a serious repayment plan. and in order not to increase the burden, this should be based on own resources. we are ready to work on this basis and we are ready to work also for a future-oriented multiannual financial framework that does not forget the priorities which we had before the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would also like to begin by thanking the many, many doctors, nurses and, not to forget, my very esteemed colleagues, the parents out there. yes, the parents who have to take care of their children at home for months, who have to teach, who do not all have a 500-square-meter garden in the back of the house, to whom we also owe a special thanks today. i think in times of social distancing, it's more important than ever that we come together. i thank you, madam president, for the objectives you have set out. i think it will be irreversible for member states to put a lot more money into this because the challenges are simply much greater. it's a pity that mr. michel had to leave early. the minimum 2% of the own resources ceiling is therefore important. i think it is crucial, even today, that we also serve the goals you have described with the right mechanisms, with the right tools. you have spoken about digitisation - absolutely right. we need a new mobility. we need to invest in where it makes sense, in artificial intelligence. and i think i will not forget - and i thank the european commission again today - the path you have taken today with your guidelines to gradually open up the borders and to strengthen tourism in a particular way will help us to get up and running. i would like to say to all of us, good luck in the future.
mr president, we heard again that unprecedented action is needed, that we are in a deep crisis that we’ve never seen before. but now we need the solutions. and too often, europe has been over-promising and underperforming when it is about solidarity and help to each other. and this time, we can’t do that again. certainly not because action is postponed – the plans are postponed week after week. well, only the expectations are rising with that. so we expect a plan, and we as a parliament are guiding the way. we are showing, that with five political groups from the different sectors of the political spectrum that we are offering solutions. and this is already co-signed by members from romania to germany, from italy to the netherlands, from spain to belgium. this shows that we can overcome our differences and that we can find solutions that make sense, that make political sense, that make economic sense. what we are proposing are bonds. and with these bonds, you can finance a recovery and transformation fund. and that is very important. we don’t want to go back to business as usual. we want that these are being covered by own resources and these own resources are not only covering the interest, but are also covering the entire repayment. that is what we call real mutualisation, and that is what we are looking for. and the investment should go into digital, in the green new deal. and if you look at all the programmes that need to be democratically checked, we make very clear that it should go to alignment with the paris agreement. it should deliver on our biodiversity targets. it should deliver on gender equality. and it should go to those people that are being hit hard by the crisis, being people in poverty, being women and being also workers, consumers and families. and last part: we also say that the state aid rules need to be in the same line. and there already, i say to the commission: last friday, you prolonged state aid without any conditionalities until the end of the year. that’s a bad signal. let’s make sure that we put all the money together and work in the same direction and really recover and strengthen a new economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to tell the truth. too many businesses are at risk of closing down, we are at risk of a social catastrophe, and the european union is lagging behind. while you are sitting in your ivory tower, playing with your calculator with trillions of dollars that will not exist, the european construction is being shaken not by the eurocritics but by those in your country, president von der leyen, who want to cripple even the ecb. the package of measures approved by the council at the eurogroup is not much: too little, too late and with too many shadows still cast over the future conditionality of the esm. we need the recovery fund, we need it now, we need it to be substantial and as much as possible to the bottom. no more loans on loans, which have turned europe into a pawn shop. no more trade surpluses, no more aggressive taxation and no more reimbursement of national contributions. yes to our own resources, if they are used to demand more from the giants of the web and finance, from those outside europe who do not respect our social and environmental standards. but no, and no more, new taxes on small and mediumsized enterprises, which will already pay the highest price. to overcome this crisis we need a totally new europe. don't defend yesterday's news!
mr president, we cannot, in our debate, ignore the decision of the german constitutional court, which claims, more or less, the right to substitute itself for the court of justice of the european union. this is a very serious decision. no european people can accept that european law is dictated to them by the constitutional court of another member state. will we have to wait for 27 judgments from 27 national courts for each act of the union tomorrow? i say to you, my dear colleagues, that to accept this is to accept the beginning of the end of the union. europe needs a great plan of recovery and solidarity geared towards cohesion. it also needs a european central bank, a genuinely european one, not a bank which is to be subjected to the ordenungspolitik of berlin. the pressure exerted by this judgment before the european council to actually limit the scope of the recovery plan is unbearable. it cannot be accepted by anyone - not even by angela merkel, who must get out of the current ambiguities. and that is why we call on the european council to overturn this judgment with one stroke of the pen and to make solidarity and cohesion prevail, as called for in the joint resolution which i will support.
mr president, the european union risks being seriously weakened as a project useful to citizens if it is not able to offer solutions. the solutions must be economic and social. when the economy weakens, resources are mobilised and debt is collected. nevertheless, when human rights weaken and shrink, who pays the bill? human rights are more threatened in the eu today than yesterday, and there are still political prisoners who should be released immediately: from julian assange to catalan pro-independence leaders. today, amnesty international is once again calling for the release of jordi cuixart and jordi sànchez. does the european union also have a plan to save democracy where it has been badly damaged?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when you build a house, you don't start by deciding what color the roof tiles should be, but you have to talk to an architect about what the house should look like, and you have to lay a proper foundation. what i am missing in the debate at the moment is precisely an answer to the question: what is the european added value that we can provide - in addition to what the member states have already started to do - so that things do not end up contradicting each other but actually fit together. that must be topic one. then the topic must be number two: we have to ask ourselves: what are the right tools for this? i'll be honest, i don't hear anything new from them. we've been talking about these things for many years. i cannot imagine that the hiring of a few tax officials will suddenly secure the financing of the european union. we have to be honest with each other. a ftt, with fewer and fewer member states wishing to join, cannot be a sound basis for financing. and so i'm going to address this for many more topics. we have to be realistic about things. and thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, i have the feeling that the resolution is also about how to make as much money available in the member states as quickly as possible, without conditions. that is not an answer, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are opening a barrel that we will never fill again. the time-limited, thematically clear-cut approach is the right one. we should decide that tomorrow and nothing else.
mr. president, the truth is that negotiating this resolution has been quite a challenge, because the chance of failure was high. but we have an agreement. and so i want to begin by thanking all those who have been negotiating for their constructive spirit, because we are all driven by a common objective: to save the dignity of the european project and to save people. this resolution is especially short - and that is also quite a challenge, knowing this house - but it sends very clear messages. first to the council. if this parliament has managed to get five political groups to agree, the council must do the same. the second message to the commission. we have heard the proposal; do not be afraid to propose a massive mobilisation of public money, because you will have the support of this parliament: a powerful financial framework, which invests in future policies and a recovery plan with massive investments financed by european debt. we are talking about two billion euros to reactivate demand and also to transform our model of society. and transformation also means making the tax revolution, because that's the only way possible. is it urgent to have it as soon as possible? yeah, but it's more important than ever to get it right, because we only get one shot at this. and that's why we insist so much on contingency planning, because we can't let the urgent distract us from the important. and finally, a message to the citizens. we are aware of the seriousness of the crisis. we know how bad things were done in the last crisis and it's not going to happen again. we're determined to do whatever it takes to rescue people, because, in the end, that's what it's all about, people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am still a little bit hungry in relation to the presentation by the president of the commission and the proposals she has made to us. last month, colleagues, the european parliament largely adopted a resolution to respond to covid. we had taken our responsibilities. we have made solidarity a prerequisite, and an essential one, for the european union to rise to the challenge and to be able to help all europeans. this solidarity is a requirement. in this same house i was pleased with the quality of this resolution, because the european parliament had listened to the european people, because we were offering the council turnkey solutions. i did not find in the president's speech the provisions which we had already proposed in the last resolution. we have based this resolution on the principle of solidarity, and we are also basing this resolution on that principle. the council agreed to this. but i would like to recall a phrase by robert schuman, which everyone quotes here: europe is a matter of solidarity, yes, but it is a matter of de facto solidarity. solidarity in practice, my friends, also means supporting the member states most affected by the coronavirus, whatever the national judges may say. they're loans, they're transfers. i did not fully understand the president's speech today. solidarity in fact is a recovery and transition plan that lives up to expectations, with recovery leaps, a european green pact, and european sovereignty too. solidarity in fact is a new resource of its own. i also do not have much information about what will be done with these new own resources. i would say to the council and the commission: do not be afraid. we can't have a hand that's trembling now. we are being watched by our national colleagues, our national parliamentarians, but also by our national population. this parliament is aware that things are not easy, that we will have to work on solutions. but in this house we also know that history is a relentless judge and that it often holds back weakness and betrayal, and i hope... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery fund will be essential to recovery. this fund must be able to issue securities, to finance itself on the markets and to have at least eur 1 500 to 2 000 billion, but above all it must work by helping european companies to make up for losses, not just by issuing loans. the european budget must be used to guarantee and support the fund, as must european taxes on finance and large corporations, but an agreement must be reached so that the fund can be activated immediately, without waiting for long negotiations. and the union's weekly budget should also be amended to reflect the new situation. we propose to add a 'covid impact index' to the criteria for allocating european funds, a tool to be used to temporarily increase european funds to the most affected areas. we would like to see the european cofinancing rates increased to 90-95% where necessary, using this indicator. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the history of europe teaches us that every crisis can be turned into an opportunity if it is handled properly. today, 70 years after the schuman declaration, we have the opportunity, the burden and, above all, the honour of formulating an unprecedented response for all our citizens, in a word, to unite europe. let's show the world what we can do together!
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the new multiannual budget and the reconstruction programme must also address this historic challenge. i would like to make three comments on this. first, because of the crisis, we must not lose sight of the post-corona future. priorities such as investments in research, digitisation and innovation-driven implementation of the green deal must play a very special role in the new budget despite or precisely because of corona. secondly, it must be ensured that a reconstruction fund, which will be closely linked to the new budget, is not used by member states to plug budgetary holes. the funds must be used to stimulate the economy and public life, and care must be taken to ensure that this is done. thirdly, in order to ensure all this, we need, on the one hand, transparency and we need the democratic right of this house to have a say in the use of funds. i understand the impulse to act quickly in a crisis situation and to make decisions as flexibly as possible. but i think that in the present situation it is particularly important that the sums available here be subject to parliamentary, democratic co-decision and subsequent monitoring of how the funds are used. i therefore appeal to the commission and the council to take account of the european parliament's voice and influence.
mr president, the european commission should have tabled a proposal on 6 may to renew the multiannual financial framework and to offer this house a powerful recovery fund. the commission did not do so and is presenting itself today with some notes, while some say that we will not have a formal proposal until the end of the month. i would like to tell the commission that this is clearly unacceptable. and, unacceptably, this parliament has come together in a resolution which will have almost unanimous support, calling for a swift response, a response of solidarity and a european response to this crisis. it should have a recovery strategy of at least two billion euros, with a fund financed by community debt, and which should be channelled into the real economy mainly through direct transfers. and this parliament also says - and i want to stress this - that the commission should refrain from presenting us with a proposal full of phantom multipliers, because this takes away a lot of credibility not only from the commission but from the european project as a whole. and i would ask the commission finally not to wait for the council to put a proposal before this house, and that the parliament united reach out to the commission to negotiate together with the council afterwards. we will take back the best ways of working from the last legislature.
mr president, i have to tell you that after the intervention of ms von der leyen, i see only business as usual, and i hope that i’m wrong. but i have also seen the first documents circulating in the commission – and it’s business as usual: it’s old tricks, it’s repackaging, massive frontloading, and then a multiplier – i have seen that the commission will use a multiplier of 45! even jesus in the new testament was not capable of doing that: a multiplier of 45 when he multiplied the fishes and the bread. but the commission is on that track, and that’s not, i think, even the opinion just of the commissioners. that’s typical, in bureaucracy, of how it works. ms von der leyen explained today how they are going to do it: they are going to increase the headroom a little bit and ask more guarantees of the member states. well they should not think about doing that. all our member states will be in deficit. all our member states will be in debt. you cannot increase the national contributions of the member states by asking for more guarantees in the future. what we need to do is create a new headroom, and a new headroom that is new own resources. that is not an invention. the financing of the european union was always based on own resources, on vat, on customs duties, and what we propose now is a digital tax and other taxes against pollution. it is because of the rebate we gave to margaret thatcher that in the 1980s we started to stop with these normal democratic finances and that we started to ask for contributions from member states. well it’s a good moment to stop that, definitely, and to create real financing for this union. so the problem is not so much, mr president, where we are going to spend this – in politics that’s easy. the most important problem is how we are going to fund it. i ask the commission – mr šefčovič, tomorrow in your meeting – to ask for new solutions as we have described here in this resolution.
my dear friends, you know, we know, that the budgetary question is never a purely accounting question. it is above all political. but in times of crisis, the budgetary question becomes even more the determining question of all the others. europe's political impotence in the face of the pandemic has a name. it is the lack of resources that binds our hands. since we are not masters of our recipes, we are not masters of our actions. no member of parliament in this house should consent to such a democratic ousting. europe cannot remain a fiscal and budgetary dwarf. we must urgently equip ourselves with our own resources, that is, we must actually arm ourselves politically to face the challenges of the time, namely the climate emergency, the social crisis and the necessary transformation of our economy. we need our own resources to finance a reconstruction plan, and to restore fiscal justice, including taxing financial transactions and carbon emissions. is the european union meant to exist on the world stage with the means to finance a just and united transition? without our own resources, the answer is no.
mr president, this month of april 2020 was the month of tears: europe was united by death. in lombardy as in belgium, in spain as in alsace, europeans spoke with one voice: they were all crying. and in the meantime, they were waiting for the voice of europe. on 24 april, the council concluded, with charles michel saying: 'we have welcomed the common roadmap for recovery'. this may seem an indecent statement, but unemployment, poverty and extreme poverty are on the agenda everywhere, without any serious plan to boost growth. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (ceecs) is a very important one. this road map, what is it? special funds with their administration and bureaucracy. we have no doubt that some will be useful but the method will always fail. it will sin because it is making redirected funds into new funds. it will sin because it will never have the necessary flexibility. it will sin because it will have been thought up by the same minds that have locked the european union into this technocracy.
mr president, every crisis is a warning sign, and this crisis is no exception. the european union emerges from this experience with the evidence of its fragility. today is the time to act. and to do this, we must use the means of genuine solidarity. but i believe that in this debate on the budget and the recovery plan, we must first ask ourselves what the ends are before we consider the means. we're doing a lot of big words and a lot of big numbers. but what is the use of the money that the european union has put in? where is he really expected? how can we be of service? this is the question which i believe we must begin to ask ourselves in the debate ahead. we also need to be able to react quickly and in this respect i am surprised that we are spending so much time talking about the mff when we are expected to have an urgent recovery plan. what business leader today can claim to be able to build a seven-year strategy plan when we are still in the total confusion that this crisis is creating in the european economy? finally, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be expected to build a european union which rethinks its relationship with globalisation. and this is the long-term challenge we have to work on: to build a europe in which we can once again produce what we need, to build a europe in which it will be possible for european countries to give masks to their nurses and medicines to their patients. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are here to do. this is a major challenge for the future of europe as a whole and i hope we will rise to the challenge.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us be clear that the same solidarity must be reflected in the policies of the european union and the recovery plan that is coming. solidarity means looking at ecological and social justice. in european jargon , that means: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive. that's very important. solidarity also requires a major investment plan based on euro bonds, as we are asking for here, dear friend maroš šefčovič. but i would also like to stress very strongly that we must have fair and solidary taxation within the european union, because that too is essential.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the last few weeks and months we have had a rather halting discussion on european solidarity. i think in the long run we have to agree on how we're going to handle the issues of this thing, so that every time we hit a small crisis or a major crisis we don't somehow start over from scratch, from zero, and try to build something that we've never seen before. the template that we actually have in the background is the budget template. it distributes the burden fairly. if you look at the german share, it is 30 times larger than the bulgarian share, and i think that can be described as a solidarity move. the finnish share is twice as large as the bulgarian share, even though we are also a rather small country. so if we manage in the future to build the necessary brakes, the necessary resources, on the same principles as we have done in the budgetary question, i think we will do better than we have done this time.
mr president, i would like to mention a taboo subject in this great house of parliament: the decision of the german constitutional court of 5 may requiring the ecb to justify its decisions in the light of the european treaties. i don't want to get into a financial debate here, or even a legal one. i would like to stick to the principles of this decision, this ultimatum. with this specific tradition which in germany enshrines the power of judges, the magistrates of karlsruhe acted as sovereignist whistleblowers. they came to reaffirm that the eu is not a federal state and that the states remain masters of the treaties and their national interests. as if nothing had happened, the commission mechanically reaffirmed the primacy of european law over national law. 'as if nothing had happened': this is how the eu behaves when it is concerned with the accession of kosovo or macedonia, when the health crisis turns into a drama in italy. you are like the wrong-way driver on the highway, who keeps going at full speed, ignoring the warning lights that come in front of him.
the fact that mrs von der leyen has presented the new recovery fund here in this house, mr president, mr vice-president šefčovič, gives us hope. it's a cash advance. an investment fund based on the green deal priorities. a fund commensurate with the needs of the member states. however, this new super-weapon, which has been delayed for some time, should not necessarily burden countries such as my own country, greece, with additional debt, countries which have already been hit by the debt crisis and have lost 25% of their gdp over the past decade. it should make it possible to support the economies mainly by means of subsidies, 'mostly grants', as we say in our text, which we shall be voting on tomorrow by a large majority here in the european parliament. combine it with all other available financial instruments, the european central bank's quantitative easing, the european investment bank's investment programme and the very low-interest loans of the support mechanism, as well as with indirect needs of national health systems that must be financed. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. and i would like to conclude by saying this: we are all in the same boat. if the single market does not work, if our businesses are not reinforced with liquidity, if we do not keep our societies together and if we do not face the wave of unemployment that is coming, none of us will be saved, nor will we travel, nor will we buy, nor will we have technological equipment, nor cars, nor tulips.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, in just three days, almost a million citizens have already signed the letter from avaaz saying that they are counting on you to make this climate and jobs budget a success. as rapporteur for the budget, i think that one of the solutions to having a very ambitious budget is to create a tax on financial transactions. when i bought this phone, i paid 19% vat. nineteen. i'm not sure. for basic foodstuffs, vat is only 5.5 per cent. but even the poorest families have to pay 5.5 percent to contribute to the collective effort. on the other hand, those who buy shares on the financial markets pay 0.0%. zero to the nearest zero. because they're poorer than the poorest? no, of course not. the creation of a financial transaction tax is urgent. the barroso commission proposed this project back in 2011, and it can now generate €57 billion. the text is written, it is only necessary to move forward politically. despite brexit, despite the crisis, a financial transaction tax could bring in €57 billion. so, what are we waiting for? that's ten times the digital tax. mrs von der leyen, it is time to put finance at the service of life. it is time for financial markets to contribute to a 'climate and jobs' pact. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the id group. mr president, imagine the government of a member state of the european union restricting fundamental freedoms with a new law on the state of health emergency with very nebulous contours. imagine a government that tries to control information through an official platform that tracks so-called fake news. imagine if in this country the constitutional judges were appointed unilaterally by the political power, with no recourse to appeal. imagine that in this member state, as recently as yesterday, a new law had dramatically restricted freedom of expression by introducing internet censorship, with no possibility of appeal. such a government exists, but not in hungary. this is emmanuel macron's france. and there's no one here to be moved by it. so some in the european institutions are enraged and trembling when they see viktor orban having the strongest electoral legitimacy in the last european elections. they are angry and they are crying because a country does not bow to the dictates of the moral left. they are enraged and they are angry, so they are imposing, once again, another debate in the midst of a health crisis, another debate on hungary, which will be just as sterile, just as useless, just as ineffective as the previous ones. the state of emergency provided for in the constitution is implemented in a similar form in other european countries, it was approved by the hungarian parliament, no abuse was found. the real reasons for this persistence, as we know, are hungary's rejection of the european union's insane migration policy. this rule of law is now being used as an instrument to impose the rule of judges against the will of the people.
as i have already announced, before i give the floor to mrs delbos-corfield, i would like to open the first round of voting. we shall vote on the second package of amendments on discharge decisions. the vote will take place in accordance with the same procedure as yesterday. the first round of voting will be open from 9.30 a.m. to 10.45 a.m. all votes today are by name. members can see their votes and the results of the votes in the document published today on the plenary session website. the results will be announced at 1:15 p.m. the vote will take place today at 12 noon.
we now continue our debate on the council and commission statements on emergency legislation in hungary and its impact on the rule of law and fundamental rights (2020/2620 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – ms jourová, the commission, the parliament has been scrutinising the different exceptional rules put in place by many member states during this crisis, and they all have in common that they have frozen, for a short period, some of our fundamental rights and liberties – one of them being the essence of this european union, freedom of movement. but one government, and only one, in hungary, has framed its state of urgency with no ‘sunset’ clause. today, in hungary, the government has extensive powers with no clear definition and for an indefinite time. let us not be mistaken. this has no necessity efficiency-wise. this has no sanitary basis. and this is turning its back on democracy. we all know what has happened in hungary for 10 years. even more this last year and even more these last weeks. we are fully documented. files are piling up on your desk, on my desk, as a rapporteur, on the desks of many people in this parliament, of civil servants, in each of our institutions, in permanent representations. they are all aware; time of awareness has gone. we have our eyes wide open. we know about the attacks against freedom of the media. we know about the continuous judicial reform. we know about the discriminatory measures. we know that today in hungary you can have five years of imprisonment because the government considers you have spread fake news. we all know that yesterday one man was taken into custody for an opinion he posted on facebook. freedom of thinking is under threat now in hungary. we know that it is easier to live in hungary if you are male, if you’re white and if you don’t question the government. why, then, do your legal services in the commission feel, guess, that there is no legal ground for infringement? why then do member states make a very clear statement without spelling out loudly the name we are talking about. there are gradual, very clear rules that can help us for a resolution under article 7. these tools exist. why are we not using them enough? we want hungarian citizens to stay european citizens, but we do not want them to be second-rate citizens with not exactly the same rights as the other european citizens.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is always ready to rewrite its own history, but rarely to learn from it. taking the memory exercise seriously today would, however, allow us to learn from past policies in exceptional circumstances. to cope with crises, governments have often taxed the wealthiest: a tax on companies profiting from war in france in 1916, an exceptional contribution from the great fortunes in germany in 1945. the current level of inequality and fiscal injustice is not the natural course of things. as we now face one of the worst crises in our history, how can we not bring back those who continue to enrich themselves excessively? today, the people who are profiting from the coronavirus are amazon, netflix, carrefour or sanofi. let us tax their extraordinary profits rather than make the people of europe pay for the crisis. history also shows us that paying off an unsustainable debt cannot be the horizon of a people. that is why more than half of the war debt of the federal republic of germany was cancelled in 1953. greece should have been treated in the same way by the european union. the debt is neither legitimate nor refundable. the only viable solution is to organise its pooling and cancellation through the european central bank, unless we want to impose unprecedented austerity on all the peoples of europe. in the face of the coronavirus and the climate challenge, heads of state and eu institutions have a unique responsibility: not to miss history and finally to give a new meaning to the word solidarity.
mr president, if it is true that we are celebrating an anniversary, then perhaps it is time to share the cake. today we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration and it has been 70 years since europe has been talking and acting. in words, it's solidarity, and in deeds, it's competition and each for himself. it began with robert schuman in 1950, who explained to us that solidarity was going to be at the heart of the european construction and who, at the same time, laid the foundations for the europe of markets. more recently, in france, president macron, who had just been elected, gave us a grandiloquent speech at the sorbonne on europe, in which he repeated the word solidarity thirteen times, and at the same time, on the recommendations of the european commission, he began to break, break public services and break in particular the public health service, which we see today how essential it is to solidarity. all over europe, the story is the same and it is high time to listen to the citizens, their anger, the anger of the citizens who can no longer stand this game of fools and who, everywhere, rightly demand their share of the cake.
mr president, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration, you boast of celebrating europe with great pomp, but what europe are you talking about? are you talking about the europe which, in 2005, flouts the french and dutch 'no' to the smoking european constitution? are you talking about this europe of free trade agreements, the latest with mexico, which has forced our farmers into unfair international competition? are you talking about this europe that has fallen asleep in the face of erdogan's blackmail, showering turkey with billions of euros from the pockets of european taxpayers? are you talking about this europe that has left greece alone to protect our continent from the invasion of migrants? are you talking about the europe whose first reaction to the virus was to warn the european countries that re-established borders and whose impotence threw italy into the arms of china? the europe you celebrate is the trojan horse of a populist front which will always prefer the misery of the end of the world to that of its own street corner, as evidenced by your obsession with integrating albania and north macedonia in the midst of the health crisis. the real europe will be built without you and your chimeras, but with the peoples, the nations and their sovereignty, which are its beating heart.
in writing. no to the construction of a 400-seat bar and a second european parliament in brussels, using the buildings in strasbourg, the official seat of the european parliament. since 1958, strasbourg has been the seat of the european parliament because it is a symbol of the franco-german reconciliation initiated by schuman. for strasbourg, the parliament is 11 000 jobs and 637 million euro a year. yet in 1993 a second parliament was (badly) built in brussels. cathedrals last a thousand years, but this building will soon be destroyed. the demolition was postponed after the european elections to avoid any scandal. the reconstruction will cost at least €0.5 billion. the project provides for 900 seats for members, 200 more than the 96 turkish members, and 940 seats for bars for members and their staff, compared with 1 260 seats in the meeting rooms. all the anti-strasbourg people are hiding these pharaonic spending coming, promising less co2 and 616 million euros by selling the strasbourg parliament and firing its staff. the reverse strategy, which would be to concentrate activities in strasbourg, was never considered. for the covid-19 outbreak alone, the eu has given 775 million to the maghreb. democracy is not for sale.
in writing. the idea of a united europe was to avoid another war. and so it has been. the european union is a peace project and a united europe has lived in peace and without war. the strength of europe is also the strength of estonia. but what we need is a strong and united europe that knows what freedoms mean and how easy it is to lose them. in today's and tomorrow's world, it is important that estonia's foreign policy acts every day in pursuit of two main objectives. these are ensuring estonia's security and increasing its welfare. it is important that estonia, with its geopolitical position and history, maintains and contributes to alliances with countries that share the same values as us. estonia's allies are primarily in europe and the rest of the democratic world. the eu has a long history of supporting the baltic states in their efforts to achieve the goals of the european union. there is no better environment for ensuring estonia's security and well-being. anything that weakens european cohesion should be avoided now and in the years ahead. but this is being done by other forces in a different value space than we are.
in writing. – on 9 may 1950, the schuman declaration launched the political and economic construction of europe. its central genial premise was that europe could be peacefully united by concentrating on concrete step by step measures to enable convergence between its national economies via the establishment of a single common market. national and regional interests would be taken into account in a detailed give-and-take, creating a shared european acquis. though very successful, this approach was fundamentally rejigged in the 1990’s, following the collapse of the ussr. rapid deepening and enlargement became the order of the day, sometimes run in a hegemonic manner. the deepening such as with the eurozone but also schengen was left half done. fast enlargement has led to spreading political and economic divergences within the union. now, union members find themselves increasingly unable to agree on concrete sectoral policies, for which the union has at least partial competence. among them: migration; long term union budgeting; eurozone financial management; dealings with russia and the us; a containment and recovery strategy vis-à-vis the corona virus pandemic; and soon possibly a final solution with the uk post-brexit. robert schumann would not have been amused. we have gotten far away from the strategy he set.
in writing. the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration is approaching. he was talking about the creation of a community in europe, but not the kind we see today. the modern eu has little in common with the ideas of a politician who is based on christianity and who regards the existence of nations as something self-evident and necessary. any politician who silently bypasses the real politician's ideas not only violates his vision, but destroys the fruits that have come from the agreement according to his concept. let us remember the words of the true father of the european community on this occasion, and perhaps they will once again touch the conscience of european politicians. schuman warned repeatedly of the dangerous consequences of deviating from christian values, of the elimination of national communities, of the domination of institutions and the economy over genuine human relations. among his many warnings, he said: "beware of those whose charms lead us into passivity. the ones who want to lull us into a false sense of security. beware of empty promises from security companies. step by step, they try to introduce what the healthy spirit of the nation rejects. their ultimate goal is clear. they are trying to extinguish religious life in countries and in people. out of love for our children, we want to prevent this from happening. the attitude we take should not be based on resistance, but on the fact that we cannot betray the spirit of our people. in the debate on the future format of the european union, another of schuman's comments is worth recalling: "democracy will be christian or it will not be at all".
we now move on to the next item on our agenda, and what is on the agenda is, as you know, the statements by the council and the commission on the use of computer applications for tracing and tracing contacts in the fight against the coronavirus (2020/2634 ((rsp)). i would remind you that in this debate, as in previous ones, there will be no 'catch the eye' procedures or 'blue card' questions.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to address the european parliament on an issue so closely related to the covid—19 pandemic. the work on covid—19 contact tracing applications fits within the more general work to ensure a safe return to our normal social and economic activity as quickly as the circumstances allow. contact tracing applications can help restore life in the european union as we used to know and appreciate it – the unrestricted movement of people, goods and services – while upholding the highest health and safety standards. they would support the revival of our tourism, aviation and shipping industries. we have followed with interest the statements and declarations coming from the european parliament, especially the resolution on eu coordinated action to combat the covid—19 pandemic and its consequences. as you are aware, the commission presented its recommendation on 8 april 2020 on a common union toolbox for the use of technology and data to combat and exit from the covid—19 crisis. all member states welcomed the initiative and there was overall agreement that this technology is a key element in the mix of measures for the exit strategy. on 9 april, the european data protection board also issued its guidance on this subject. when the ministers responsible for telecommunications and digital issues held an informal videoconference on 5 may, they reached consensus on the need to ensure the interoperability of national applications. at this point in time, we have national solutions – some already working, some under development. to save time and effort, work on interoperability should take into account the progress already made at the national level. we must also make sure that, irrespective of the technical solutions adopted, these apps are trusted enough to be used by our citizens in large enough numbers. this will not happen unless the apps can be used on a voluntary basis, ensure adequate protection of personal data and privacy and avoid the stigmatisation or any potential misuse of the collected and stored data. there is a need for a joint shared approach and common standards in developing such apps. these apps should do nothing more than trace contacts. malfunctioning of the app could potentially change the life of our users, so the efficiency of the application should always be checked. it is also important to mention that there are sizeable regional differences between digital services across and between the different member states. we must ensure digital inclusion in every part of europe. bridging this gap will not happen without investments, interconnectivity, technological and human digital skills. in this respect, the croatian presidency is working on the council conclusions as our answer to the commission communication on shaping europe’s digital future. the issues include the resilience of our digital infrastructure, the importance of reliable data availability at the european level, the urgency of implementing our e—health initiatives, the importance of improving the digital aspects of our education, our security, of our networks and data. all these aspects will be covered in the council conclusions.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would also like to thank you for including this debate in today's plenary. the current pandemic knows no borders. data and technology can help us in the fight against coronavirus and in the gradual lifting of restrictions and the restoration of the free movement of people. contact tracing applications can play a role in this endeavour. the commission adopted the recommendation on 8 april setting out the principles and showing respect for fundamental rights and, in particular, the right to privacy and personal data protection and the prevention of mass surveillance and stigmatisation. it was followed by a common eu toolbox developed by the member states with the support of the commission and complemented by commission guidance on the respect of privacy and data protection. our guidance sets key principles. national health authorities or authorities responsible for the crisis management should be the controller. the installation of an app on a user's device should be voluntary. if proximity data is used, it should be stored on an individual's device and only shared at the initiative of the user. for contact tracing there is no use of geo-location data, only proximity data based on bluetooth. only the personal data that is necessary to meet the purpose of the app can be processed. the identity of the user of the app will not be disclosed to other users. the personal data should not be kept for longer than necessary. timelines should be based on medical relevance. in addition, the app should only be used during the crisis and be deactivated, at the latest, when the pandemic is over. the deactivation should not depend on de-installation by the user. the data and the entire application should be protected through state-of-the-art security techniques, including encryption. and finally, data protection authorities should be fully involved and consulted in the development of an app and should keep its deployment under review. the purpose of contact tracing applications is to help break the chains of infection and save lives. however, this will only work if citizens know that they are safe and that their data and privacy are fully protected. citizens must have the certainty that the applications will be used exclusively to fight the pandemic. these are the prerequisites for the development, recognition and use of such applications. i insist on this: there must be no doubt. these apps cannot be used for mass surveillance. individuals will and should retain control of their data. this is the foundation of the accuracy and effectiveness of these applications in containing the spread of the virus. it is therefore essential to identify the least intrusive solutions that fully respect the requirements of personal data protection and confidentiality as defined in european union law. it is also essential that we have a coordinated european approach. this european approach is clear. these apps must be voluntary, transparent, temporary, cyber-secure, using temporary and arbitrary identifiers, rely on proximity data, bluetooth technology and not on geo-location. that means no tracking. and they must be interoperable across borders, but also across operating systems. as for the two different approaches referred to as centralized and decentralized, both can be compatible with privacy and data-protection rules, and both need to follow high standards of data security. from a data-minimization perspective, the decentralized approach is preferable since less data would be stored on the back-end server than under the centralized one. regardless of the approach chosen, we should strive to have a common approach to ensure interoperability of the apps. the commission is working with member states on this issue as a top priority, and i am pleased that guidelines on interoperability for approved contact tracing mobile applications in the eu were adopted yesterday by the e-health networks of member states and published on the commission's website. i cannot stress enough how important interoperability will be for the cross-border movement of people in the union and for many sectors, including tourism. we should also ensure that national health authorities are able to adjust the epidemiologic barometers of the apps and to obtain the necessary aggregated information to monitor the efficiency of the measures taken. the commission also firmly believes that the process regarding the selection of the apps as well as their functioning, should be transparent. the technical specifications and the source code of the apps should therefore be published. some member states are using manual tracing together or instead of tracing apps. their tracing modalities need to be in line with personal data protection rules as well. we will also be attentive to this. ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the member states have begun to introduce the first stages of the deconfinement measures. this is why we need a coordinated european approach. we must act together with responsibility and solidarity to stop this virus. mr president, i thank you for this opportunity to clarify the lines of force announced by the commission in collaboration with the member states. i am of course listening to the remarks and observations of the members of your assembly.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is certainly good news that border controls in central europe will now be largely lifted from this weekend and fully lifted by mid-june. the single and free europe must not be pushed back a hundred years by this pandemic. but what is important now is that citizens use their slowly regaining freedom responsibly. and as a professor of hygiene from denmark told us this week, it's just that hygiene and distance are not everything in life. but without hygiene and without distance, everything we do now is nothing. that's why it's all about keeping your distance and washing your hands. europe can, and in this case the member states can, of course, make it easier for citizens to exercise their freedom and enjoy it by providing them with digital support if they are at risk of infection. and that is why, commissioner, you have quite rightly pointed out the conditions which are also of particular importance to my group. we believe that this app will convince many citizens if it offers them something - if it offers them security, if it offers them information and if it is useful to them. it must work all over europe. so it must be operable. the member states are called upon to do this because the health systems of the member states are still organised differently. and it has to bring a few other things, namely no geolocation, anonymity, the use has to be voluntary. it needs to be protected against any kind of cyber attack. and it must be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed. health care is a sovereign task. but in this case it is the responsibility of the citizens themselves that we must take into account. so i hope that this app will be available soon.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, are contact tracing apps a silver bullet against the virus? today, there is no evidence that apps can contain a disease, but there are serious fundamental rights concerns, and therefore the app must be truly voluntary, with no incentives to use them and no discrimination against people not willing to use them or who cannot use them. entry into a country should not depend on using the app. freedom of movement is a fundamental right, not a prize for downloading an app. apps must only be used for contact tracing with no access for commercial players or law enforcement, and data should be stored in a decentralised way. this is important because, especially in exceptional times, interference with fundamental rights must remain proportionate, necessary and limited in time. governments now have a chance to show that europe can lead the way in countering this pandemic without compromising on fundamental rights. so why is it that only a few member states fully involved their data protection authorities? what are they afraid of? we can’t accept any ideas to install systems of surveillance via contact tracing apps or by using location data, drones, or by openly debating to discriminate on the basis of so-called immunity passes? let’s be honest: there is nothing like a silver bullet. even a fundamental rights-friendly app can only be an addition to physical distancing, masks and more tests. technologies and the crisis should never be used to destroy our common values and democratic principles, but let us explore how technology can help to better protect people.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, while we can understand the health security objective behind the development of a number of tracking applications, i would like to mention a number of areas of uncertainty that persist around both the exploitation of this personal data that will be collected and its destruction. first, as regards their exploitation, how can you guarantee us the complete confidentiality of the data collected? who will exploit them? you mentioned health authorities earlier, but what is their composition? are they medical? if that's the case, fine. are they political authorities? if so, that is a real problem. finally, as regards the destruction of the data collected, who will order the destruction? that's the first question i'm gonna ask. second, how long? what sanctions are also provided for? as for the delay, we want it to be done immediately after the end, the extinction of the epidemic. and then, who will control these destruction operations, in order to preserve the individual freedoms of our compatriots, as well as of course all the confidentiality of this collected data?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this crisis once again shows the failings of your system. among them, lack of resources in hospitals, medical equipment, dependence on china, destruction of industrial fabric. those who told us there was no magic money are the same people who sacrificed our public health services on the altar of austerity, following the 63 commission recommendations, which were aimed at privatising and cutting spending. 63 recommendations later, the health care providers and hospitals are cracking down. 63 recommendations later, we count the dead. so, modern harpagon, instead of fixing what they broke, presents a miracle cure: contact tracing apps. the people who have accepted and respected the lockdown are still being asked to sacrifice their freedom. the guarantees you give, the commission gives, on the protection of privacy are not convincing. no credibility, while in hungary and latvia these rights are suspended. and while our smes are dying, the gafams across the atlantic are growing. should we also give them our data via these applications? you want to save lives, mr. reynders. well, test the citizens en masse, give extra resources, learn from your mistakes, invest in public hospitals instead of playing witch-trainers with our freedoms. and that, i wish i didn't have to say it 63 times.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, member states are preparing to phase out the containment measures and at this stage, which is clearly not without concern, the use of technologies and applications for alerting, preventing and tracing contacts will make an important contribution to the fight against the coronavirus. european citizens who voluntarily choose to use them expect full respect for the rules and principles on the protection of personal data, as well as respect for private and family life, respect for the principle of non-discrimination and freedom of movement. clear and transparent information campaigns on their operation, use and storage will therefore be essential to ensure that the purpose of helping to combat the pandemic and alerting to potential risks of contagion is understood. in italy, the italian government announced the launch of immuni, an app that will allow the tracking of proximity without collecting personal data that can reveal identity, where you go or who you meet, so a valid tool aimed only at the responsible use of data for the protection of public health, without undermining fundamental rights and individual freedoms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the extreme crisis requires that we return to normal life as soon as possible, and this is helped by tests, protective masks and, of course, tracing apps, so a digital solution. it is also clear that we must work together in europe, and that means that we must quickly come up with the standards we need in the future. the commission's recommendations were very commendable in terms of data protection and interoperability, but at the very beginning of this development, interoperable apps with the technical specifications were lacking, and this ultimately leads to fragmentation. i have to ask myself why the council itself has not come up with the idea of saying: we must also work together in this crisis and perhaps also set a shining example of cooperation here, and therefore more work must be done on the council's attitude. the eu must take the lead here, especially in such an extreme crisis. we need to act together, also digitally, and also look at the efficiency of all these tracking apps from the perspective of what's really efficient and what's moving forward.
mr. speaker, perhaps contact tracing apps combined with testing can help us live with the coronavirus. there are four conditions for fundamental freedoms. it has to be temporary, transparent and therefore open source, decentralized with storage on the phone, and voluntary. access to the app cannot be denied to anyone who is unable or unwilling to use it. we can't let the apps become immunity passports. in addition, the apps must work across european borders. that is what europe needs. that was agreed yesterday. they must be strictly observed. finally, let us not forget why it is so difficult for minister de jonge and the other countries to develop the app. we're depending on silicon valley to develop the apps. google and apple are the gatekeepers of our phones and therefore essential to our health. so let's also look at how we can develop a vaccine against the dependence on big tech companies.
mr president, i’ve heard some people refer to this app as a so-called ‘deconfinement app’, as if the app is going to reopen the borders. well, let me tell you something. it will not. we need a range of other measures. what will open the borders is a common european approach and interoperability. that is what will open the borders. what we are seeing is member states going in all directions again, with not just 27 national apps, but even a range of regional apps. now that is a barrier to free movement. national governments are presenting the app as a silver bullet against the pandemic, but not only is it not a silver bullet, it’s also not going to solve the problem of politicians that they have to reconcile health concerns and economic concerns and are just hoping for this app to be the answer to that dilemma when it’s not. but we do need full transparency on the decision—making – and not just on the technical aspects, but also on why governments choose a particular model, why they choose particular providers. where are the political and commercial interests? finally, i agree with everyone who said it must be strictly voluntary. not only does that mean that it should not be mandatory, but there has to be a legal ban on making downloading the app a precondition for entering public spaces like public transport or schools or gyms, or indeed crossing the borders, because freedom of movement in europe is a fundamental right.
mr. speaker, colleagues, contact tracing apps are being presented to us as an absolute necessity in the face of covid. but nothing is less certain. bluetooth, for example, is not effective in detecting who has been exposed to a risky contact. its detection range is well over five feet and it detects neither walls nor floors. but, above all, this system endorses the democratically deadly idea that in the name of the greater general interest, populations can be accustomed to an additional incursion into their private lives. so let's be clear: not only is mass surveillance not the answer, it is a proven danger to our fundamental freedoms. some say this is a temporary measure. but recent history has shown that our democracies are failing to restore the freedoms they suspend in times of crisis. every step back is final. so it is our responsibility not to give in to fear or emotion, and to stand firm in the face of the deceptive sirens of greater security offered by this technology.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, health is a common good, a public good, a global good, a european good. we are defending ourselves collectively during this epidemic by our reasonable and respectful behaviour, as we do in this house. we welcome the efforts of the european commission to fund research to develop treatments, vaccines and tests. the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in its resolution of april for a european health response mechanism and we collectively called for the strengthening of health agencies, closer cooperation between researchers and the restoration of our european sovereignty. we must not allow third countries to make us dependent on their research and production of medicines. we can't let the gafams take over our patients' medical records. we cannot allow the healthcare industry, sanofi or others, to bid on human lives and seize the chance of a cure in the name of profit. let's negotiate the price of the drugs together. i agree with you, commissioner, let us make the european medicines agency the focal point of coordinated clinical trials. this will prevent them from competing with one another. let's make the agency for disease control and prevention the heart of a network of european laboratories of excellence in public-private partnership. we can do this if we are determined, united and united europeans and if we include a specific programme for health in the multiannual financial contract.
madam president, we approve of the allocation of large sums of money to pharmaceutical and medical research. however, we are concerned about the accelerated privatization of health and life that is being set up by a number of large global oligopolies. we therefore draw the commission's attention to the need to finance independent research, whether academic or public, in the face of the concentration of research in the hands of large pharmaceutical companies. we draw the commission's attention to the need to ensure a pricing model that encourages relocation and autonomy of our pharmaceutical and medical industries and ensures access to the common good of health for all. finally, we warn the commission against the drift of the patentability of life which is providing undue rents to industrialists capable of sterilizing research, capable of excluding from the scope of prescriptions recognised medicines, used for decades, and who, finally, are, in favour of the pandemic, providing clearly undue profits to the global pharmaceutical oligopoly.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam president of the commission! chancellor merkel's promise was clear: there will be no eurobonds or corona bonds. what's the next move? it is now agreeing to a so-called reconstruction fund with a volume of 500 billion euros. the super-large, first credit, then tax-refinanced gift-giving pot for the european commission. the eu has been denied its own borrowing for good reason, but this does not seem to bother anyone in the general madness of these days. and now you, madam president of the commission, come here today and demand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. that is, i want to make it very clear, completely wrong. the price to be paid by the citizens of the union for this madness will be gigantic. you throw money around, not yours, but the taxpayers' money, like there's no tomorrow. what you're doing is completely irresponsible. it's voodoo economics, free of knowledge, that you're imposing on the citizens here. it is both monetary and fiscal harakiri. most people still do not understand this because they are preoccupied with other things and because they are not used to thinking in such large numbers. you take advantage of this with your absurd intentions, which you also praise as hypocritical as they are false. there will be a bitter awakening. i call on the governments of austria, the netherlands, denmark and sweden to refuse to give their consent to this madness.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have indeed a very deep crisis in europe, and we need to react to that. it’s a big moment of responsibility, of thinking together, that were joining hands and we’re thinking of how to get together out of this crisis. this parliament, with a broad majority, has shown a way forward with a substantial recovery fund, a strong mff – a strong budget – and a green deal that helps the economy while addressing the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis which have gone nowhere. i’m very glad to say that greens all over europe are actually supporting that, so i’m afraid mr weber, dear manfred, that it is a bit cheap to hide behind the greens when we actually have a strong support, also public support from the austrian greens who are supporting our position and the position of this parliament. maybe it is rather your best friend in vienna who is causing the problem. but i’m glad to see that you’re also ready and willing to convince them, and try to convince them, and i am glad we can join forces there and try indeed our common job to convince governments all over parties, all over. because that is what we need to do now, because i do believe that the commission proposal is a very big step forward and we welcome the focus that you’ve put on grants to make sure that no member state is left behind in this crisis. the overall volume might not prove sufficient in time, but in any case, what we need to make sure is that we don’t lessen the ambitions on the mff because we also need to think further ahead. you have mentioned – colleagues have mentioned – conditions attached to the fund, and i would urge us all to not repeat the big mistakes of the past and force countries into austerity and blind market ideologies that have never worked, and will not work. instead, we need to make sure that the money is well invested into projects that will help in the long term, that create jobs and that save the one planet that we have. to be meaningful in the long term, both the recovery fund and the mff need to incentivise the social and ecological transformation of our economy and promote gender equality – a big problem we’ve seen in this crisis. they also need to follow our minimum common rules such as the rule of law and democracy. some governments think that they can do it all alone, but i think they should think again. they have all benefited as much as and even more than other member states from the single market, from freedom of movement and some, unfortunately, also from a bit too lax tax rules. europe needs a strong step ahead. it needs courageous action like that of schuman 70 years ago, and this parliament has shown it is ready to do its part. i hope the member states will follow. (applause)
i am very impressed with the way in which our citizens and our businesses are dealing with this crisis, which is very deep, in a flexible, resilient and efficient way. we must set an example and our measures must be effective. in other words, if we grant loans and/or grants, there must be clear conditions attached to them so that the money goes where it is needed most. we must also bear in mind that there are many measures that can be taken that do not require immediate financial assistance. strengthening the internal market is absolutely essential in this crisis and we must ensure that our business fabric is protected. international groups are raising fabulous sums with which they clearly do not have the best of intentions. we must create protective mechanisms against this. the main issue now is how to spend the money, but of course there is also the question of financing. and i think it is very important - socially speaking - that we do not let the people who work and save bleed in those funding efforts. we must also be aware that there are limits to the way in which we can rely on the european central bank's facilities. sometimes we have the illusion or are given the illusion that it is endless, but of course it is not, if only because of the adverse effects that are clearly visible and becoming. in the context of these consequences, i call for a long-term debate to be held. the contribution of the big internet giants to the revenue in europe is too small, far too small, and they should make a proper contribution. this must be done efficiently, preferably at oecd level, but it is certainly up to europe to take the lead in this area.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mrs von der leyen, for months we have been warning you: this crisis is not a parenthesis, it is rooted in years of off-the-record policies that have exhausted our health systems, destroyed our industrial fabric and unraveled our social protections. you keep talking about generations and the generational pact, and i am precisely of that generation which has suffered the ravages of the liberal policies of the european union in recent years, which have increased inequalities and destroyed the planet. the recovery plan you are presenting today should have been a clear break with these dogmas of the past and i regret that it has come to a halt. you first suggest that austerity and rigorousness are behind us, by suspending budgetary control, as they were at the beginning of the crisis, but you are rushing to bring them back through the back door with the european semester, by making state aid conditional on compliance with a path of return to budgetary balance in which the right wing has already rushed. understand: more and more austerity. of course, not everything is to be thrown away, obviously. we welcome the creation of own resources, such as the plastic tax or the carbon tax, which, in addition to having laudable ecological objectives, will partly lighten the burden on the states. but how can we accept that we refuse to tax the ultra-billionaires, the very wealthy and those who have benefited from the crisis, i am thinking, for example, of the hypermarket sector whose profits have increased by 35%? we also welcome the embryo of european solidarity that you are trying to establish, by allowing the states most affected by the crisis to benefit from increased support. but, frankly, let us be frank, this does not change much in the overall equation: it will always be the states that will pay the majority of the bill and therefore, in the end, the peoples of europe. now on the recovery fund: €750 billion is fine, but it is about a third of what our european parliament, from the right to our left, had asked for two weeks ago. and then, of the additional 500 billion which are presented as direct subsidies, it is very unlikely that the own resources, of which you have not mentioned the amount you hope to receive, will be sufficient. it will therefore probably still be up to the states to borrow more to repay through the european budget. and frankly, what an irony to call this fund a new generation fund, when it is precisely these generations that are going to be asked to pay the cost of this debt that is going to be added. your plan, in the end, hides a central tool that could allow us to avoid austerity for all: the cancellation of our debt from the crisis and the possibility for the ecb to lend directly to the states in the form of perpetual debt to protect them from market speculation. let's free states from the burden of debt so that we can take the time to calmly decide what direction we want to give our societies in the face of the climate crisis and inequality. it is absurd to discuss today the fastest way of getting rid of the myths of infinite growth and budgetary equilibrium. the question is which horizon we want to go towards. for us, it is clear: not one euro of public money should be used to eliminate jobs, as renault in france, not one euro of public money should be spent to keep a productivist system in a state of disrepair. greenwashing, which is the unconditional rescue of outdated industries, is precisely the practice of your generation and past generations. instead, we should make public support conditional on social, ecological, wealth-sharing, job-preservation, dividend freezes or ecological conversion measures. our group in the european united left proposes this alternative path in our plan for the crisis. a radical transformation of our model will be all that is needed to emerge from the crisis and make our societies resilient to the shock ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen, what we are hearing from you right now is that some of the elements of your proposal give us a lot of hope: we refer to non-recourse transfers, which overall exceed loans. the issuance of long-term european government bonds; and i think that's really the acceleration of a green digital transition that we've been calling for. but now the hardest challenge begins: we will see how the council game goes, where some countries will try to impose austerity policies. by the way, don't call these countries frugal, call them selfish! today president conte announced a strategic plan for the future, starting with the revival of investment. the 5 star movement expects a lot of help from europe to do this, and we hope that the plan you have presented today will help us to do just that. for decades europe has refused to change its ways and it is regrettable that only a catastrophe such as the one we are experiencing has brought out what ideally matters: the spirit of european solidarity is at work. are we writing history? i might! we hope that this is a real turning point for the citizens of this old but resilient europe.
mr president, i welcome president von der leyen to the european parliament, and thank you for your proposal. dear colleagues, today is an important day, because the citizens of europe expect help and support from the european union, and today we can tell them help is coming. we are creating a package. the european union is delivering. this is a new instrument. the support which it grants will be concrete. it will make a difference for people, for companies, for regions and for countries. what are the next steps? today is only the beginning. we need to create the best recovery package possible, and for this, the european parliament needs to be fully involved in this recovery package. the colleagues here in the room, they are coming from all regions of europe. they are in direct contact with the citizens. they know exactly what the needs on the ground are, what hospitals need, what companies need, what people need. this is why we say the european parliament has to be fully involved in how the money of the recovery package is being spent, but also in how the money of the recovery package is being paid back. the involvement of the european parliament will ensure that the recovery package is the best recovery package that we can jointly and together create. this recovery package will have an impact upon the future of the citizens, and this is why this house, which represents the citizens of the european union, needs to be involved in all aspects. we also need to see the whole picture. president von der leyen was speaking about the budget as a whole. we need to create a recovery package which supports the people and the economy to come out of the corona crisis, but we should also not forget about the old priorities of the eu budget. we should not forget about farmers, about students. we should not forget our new priorities: the green deal, the security of citizens, digitalisation, and we should have enough reserves to respond to still unpredictable crises that will, for sure, occur in the next seven years. these are the principles of our work. we are ready to work with the european commission on this basis, and we expect the commission to work with the parliament on this basis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen, the world is watching us today. the european union is looking to us to see whether our union, founded on fundamental values, the rule of law and a social model that is unique in the world, the result of decades of social struggles, is able to survive the crisis we are experiencing. his proposal is ambitious and seems to provide a response, finally adequate, to the level of the challenge: we shall study it in depth, but 750 billion, of which a significant part has been lost to promote recovery, seems to finally answer the european parliament's call for common solidarity, which we have been calling for from the beginning in this house. i would like to take up the words of president sassoli: we will support you, we will support this effort as long as you maintain that ambition. that is why governments today must be consistent with the need to support a new generation of europeans. so today we need speed and simplicity, because europeans can no longer wait.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is a major step forward in terms of the loan it proposes. however, i will be direct: frankly, we are still wondering where the money is to finance this recovery, but we all know where the money is. that money is at google, at amazon and at facebook. this money is with all these multinationals that practice tax optimization. let them bear the burden of this loan. the same goes for the big chinese industries that pollute and have nothing to do with our standards. let us finally have the courage to use this weapon of our own resources and let us do it now, not in 2024. once that money is raised, we can give this project a new lease of life: clean cars, well-insulated homes, a return of our offshoring jobs. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this virus is not only spreading death, it is spreading despair. let us avoid fatalism and give europe the greatness to which its citizens aspire. i thank you for this proposal, our demands are complementary.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for its proposal, because this is creating room for an investment plan, and an investment plan that europe badly needs and which should also come from europe, not only from the member states, because we do know if we leave it to the member states, we will get an imbalance that is bigger and bigger in this internal market. what we see already: half of the state aid is coming from germany at the moment, just showing the imbalance, and that is why we need a european investment programme. and that is why this is so important, and i would like to thank you for that. it’s really also being thanked by all the different political greens, and we do hope that from the other political families, including my government in the netherlands, that they are seeing how badly needed such a new modern investment programme is. but this for the commission also means that we need to be sure that the investments are going to the green deal and digitalisation. and that is there in words, but really it now boils down also to how to put it into action. and there i have one question to the commission. we are talking about eur 750 billion now. but in state aid, we are talking about more than eur 2 000 billion, and there – still – the support is without conditions. european commission, madam vestager, make the rules to also condition the state aid, because conditions are needed here but also for the national investments, and then we can prosper and get to the new economy that europe so badly needs.
mr president, let me start in dutch, because i think that is important. i welcome the proposal from the european commission. in the last crisis europe waited too long to react, so the fact that there is a proposal now seems to me very important. and of course, there will be talk about the ratio of grants to loans, the amount of it, the way the money should be spent, but the fact that the proposal is there, i welcome that. and also because it breathes the atmosphere of "we're all in this together, let's put our shoulders together and let's get out of it together". and of course, much of this proposal stands or falls on its own resources. much has been said about the digital tax, and i welcome that. part of the ets. but the bottom line for me is that in the end, the money is well spent. and i do have one concern. my main concern is the fact that we're now entering into debt that is unavoidable in this crisis, but it's unclear how and when it's going to be repaid. and my concern is that, if we don't get own resources because if one member state opposes, we won't get them in the end we will have to use our european budget to actually repay this debt, having less money at our disposal to do actual politics and policies. therefore, i would like to see a real commitment from the council that we will get own resources in time or that we start a repayment plan within this mff already. we need clarity for this program to work. and then let me say one thing to madame garcía pérez. i've just said in dutch, my mother tongue, because i think it's important, that we need to shoulder this proposal all together, that we're all in the same boat, and that we need to work together. but if you propose making this a matter of 23 against four, we won't succeed. you will push those four countries into the arms of the extreme right if you say: let us do this without unanimity. count on the pro-european forces in those countries, among which i include myself, to get this done, but we will have to do it together. (applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam president, mrs von der leyen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think she's already left us, i see. first of all, i want to thank you for coming here. i believe that if the european executive is to put forward a plan, it is right to do so in the place of european democracy, here in the european parliament. i thank you for this gesture. i also congratulate the commission on the proposal it has made. i think it is appropriate in its scope and also in its purpose. i'm a little disappointed in your lack of courage in the matter of equity. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i think that the situation in the council has something to do with the negotiating room that can be created. i would have liked you to state clearly which own resources you support and which you propose to the european parliament and the european council. you know, you have a lot of support here for this, and it would have been clear where the brakes and the brakes would be in this case. another point that concerns me is: where does the money go? i think we need to be clearer about our priorities. innovation, social and ecological change, the hydrogen economy, digitisation, strengthening social systems - i don't read enough for that.
mr president, 540, 1 800, 2 400 billion euros, what a pain in the ass for the future generation! when that much money is on the table, it's not about economics, it's about power. and we fear that the health crisis will be used as a means to advance the federalist agenda, to impose a european tax, to advance a project of european economic government, to break with the rule of unanimity; but we fear even more that this plan is the impossible dream of returning to the world before. there will be no turning back. we must prepare the world of tomorrow, the world in which future generations will live with the prospect of imminent health or ecological collapse. the world we want to prepare for is a world where quality is more important than quantity, where equality before tax is more important than free trade, where the privilege of the internal market, the preference for products of origin, must be guaranteed in all its dimensions. in short, the world beyond is a world which must break with the idea of infinite mobility and endless growth. this foolish use of the world has prepared the crisis in which we find ourselves. beware of the political and social collapse that is coming in the next few months.
mr president, madam president, european solidarity is essential in the face of this unprecedented crisis. the mutual aid and respect for parliament are therefore welcome. this is a major step forward, i could even call it historic, if it had been more ambitious, if we had concrete guarantees to move forward on the path of a real transformation of our economies, of ecological transformation, without the risk of returning to the path of the flight forward. madam president, your plan is vastly undersized and underconditioned. it will not solve the social problems that suffocate so many of our citizens, nor will it be enough to meet the paris agreement, nor to combat the sixth extinction of species. you talk a lot about the european green deal, but forgive me, perhaps it is a french bias: i am wary of fine speeches, i prefer deeds. we need a lot more money for climate. you said yourself that inaction would cost us a lot more. so why not take massive action now? we die from the air we breathe, we fear the water we drink, we get poisoned by the food we eat. today these masks are disfiguring society. what after, what tomorrow do we choose, what is the place of the human and the living in our choices? and finally, let's listen to the climate scientists, the cancer scientists, the farmers, the environmentalists, the health care workers, the youth, rather than those who talk about austerity, deficits and growth. enough, this crisis is historic, our response must be truly historic.
in writing. the economic recovery plan presented by the european commission to deal with the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic is largely inadequate in scope and completely wrong in method. the current economic situation is much worse than expected. this is a total and unprecedented crisis, and the european union is the one that is largely absent. today, more than ever, division within the union is the rule. it's every man for himself. the structure of this union must be completely revised, according to a model based on a european alliance of nations to save europe from the european union. the proof, if need be, is that the franco-german proposal is opposed by the four so-called 'frugal' countries (some of which are in fact champions of tax optimisation) on the one hand, and the eastern european countries on the other, which will try to safeguard the european subsidies they enjoy, particularly through the agricultural and cohesion policies. i would remind you that france is a net contributor to the eu. as the union's creditor, it has more say than any other state.
mr president, allow me to speak at this opening to refer to the resolution tabled by the far right on the debate we are about to have on the death of george floyd, which uses this death to accuse our political group and france of incitement and violence throughout europe. we know that hatred and slander are the hallmarks of the national assembly, but i hope that we can count on the support and condemnation of this unworthy defamation by every republican force. this abject maneuver actually masks the chilling acts of white supremacists and racists who are entrenched in the ideology of the far right and the national rally since its founding. we are proud, on the contrary, here, to be the heirs of communist resistance fighters who gave their lives against nazism, while your political formation was founded by a former ss man to keep this ideology alive in the war. violence is your business, on the far right: that of the police violence you cover, that of the fascist groups you cover. your violence reminds us of the bitter certainty that we feel: where there is no justice, there is no peace. so we will continue to march against racism and against you, with justice and peace as our horizon.
mr president, under pressure from the banking lobby, the commission is asking us to vote by emergency procedure to postpone the tax transparency measures which we so badly need to combat tax evasion. this contempt for parliament, which is being called upon to express itself in haste and without going through a committee on such an important matter, is, i believe, and we must say this firmly, unacceptable. our group will of course vote against this emergency procedure and calls on all the groups today. this detestable practice is symptomatic of the importance which the european commission currently attaches to the fight against tax evasion. the health crisis has a good back, because it is really just a pretext to delay again and again the implementation of the tools that would finally allow progress. the commission therefore considers that there is an urgent need to wait. it is urgent to wait and do nothing to combat tax evasion. yet member states must now, right now, spend billions of euros to save their economies, to save jobs, to save businesses and it is now more than ever time to recover the hundreds of billions of euros lost to tax evasion across europe. the money powers will always find good reasons to postpone any regulation to the greek calendar. the urgency today is not to make their work easier. we, ladies and gentlemen, are the ones who make european law, not the european lobbies. finally, it is urgent to start resisting the lobbies and acting in the interests of the european people.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, it is the honour of our european parliament to open this plenary session with this debate and, on behalf of our whole group, i thank you for it. a tragic event has become a major political event. the chilling eight minutes of george floyd's murder have mobilized hundreds of thousands of people around the world to push back against structural racism and police violence. and our outrage this afternoon speaks to how these acts offend the values we share, and that is why we stand with this movement and the victims of racism and police violence to give a concrete answer to the demands for respect and equality. in the face of this event, we must also look with lucidity at our history and we must see that this event refers to centuries of black domination in the united states and inequality of conditions in europe. let us remember that our european history has always oscillated like a pendulum between barbarism and civilization, that it is in europe, despite reason, despite the enlightenment, that the worst theories of racial hierarchy were born to justify conquests, to justify slavery, to justify colonization and to justify the holocaust. so if we want to eradicate evil, there is a whole mental continent that we must continue to deconstruct and there is also a whole system of economic violence that we must fight because, as we see, social inequalities continue to intersect with racial inequalities. in this work we have to do, mr president, symbols, like memory, are important, and that is why we must proclaim from this european parliament, as our resolution demands, that slavery is a crime against humanity, and together, make an act of civilization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the brutal murder of george floyd has raised a wave of outrage, anger and protest around the world. what happened to george floyd is unfortunately not an isolated incident and in the face of the violence of racism we cannot remain indifferent. we must be frank and unhypocritical in our approach to this phenomenon and we must oppose all forms of racism, the most obvious and violent, but also the less obvious and therefore more insidious. and the reference is to that racism which hides behind compassion or which hides behind a charitable approach or even a display of moral superiority, betrayed by a utilitarian conception of those who have black skin. all attitudes that offend human dignity. in the fight against this phenomenon we still have many battles to win, from the cultural one against all forms of prejudice towards social groups to the political one, to guarantee to everyone the full enjoyment of rights in matters of work, education, health, justice and political and social participation. this is the response to all the unequal treatment that is expected from the european institutions and the member states.
mr. president, listening to all of us, we are all anti-racist. i'm glad to hear that. racists are always others. but george floyd's face is a mirror that reflects the one who looks at it; and the concentration camps in which millions of jews were exterminated 75 years ago are in europe. racism is not cured by laws alone; racism is not cured by propaganda; racism is not cured by tearing down statues; racism is not cured by insulting police officers; racism is not cured by closing your eyes; racism is not cured by racism. only when every church, every mosque, every synagogue, is my church, my mosque and my synagogue, will we have cured racism. racism is cured by education and culture. racism is the oldest pandemic that humanity has ever suffered. we have been suffering from this pandemic for centuries and the day has not yet come when we have decided to definitively quarantine those infected by racism, invest what is necessary in designing a vaccine.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, the exploitation of the death of one man, however tragic, to impose the false idea of systemic racism in europe is immoral and scandalous. to debate in this chamber the tragic death of george floyd is to bring to our continent subjects, struggles and concepts that are foreign to it. racial segregation is contrary to the spirit of our continent and of france in particular. rather than unbutton statues and rename streets, as has been done a few hundred metres from this parliament, i prefer to celebrate the history of my country. rather than condemn our ancestors incessantly, i would like to remind you that european civilization was the first in the world to abolish slavery when it was practiced everywhere. rather than accuse the police of racism, as in france, i prefer to support them in the face of the many barbaric attacks, which are becoming more and more violent. rather than classify people by race, i prefer to recognize only citizenship. the variable geometry outrage that mourns the death of a man because he is black, but never revolts against anti-white racism, is unjust and scandalous. it is all racism that must be condemned.
madam president, madam president of the european commission, all lives matter. to deny that and to say that the life of only one race matters - that, my fellow leftists, is racism. to say that one race is to blame for everything is also racism. to say that only one race matters, again, guess what, and that's racism. you can choose, colleagues, which thesis you defend. either you have to respect all life, or you're inherently racist in protecting those. and moreover, when you use one death and one tragedy to amass political capital - that, gentlemen, is hypocrisy. and that's been a long-standing policy of communists, leftists and anarchists. and i remind all of you who wear these t-shirts that when you wave the flag with the sickle and hammer - the red flag - you should think about how many human lives have been lost by communism and bolshevism all over the world, who are so glorified. when you justify vandalism, that too, your honor, is racism and hypocrisy. and i have something else important to tell you. when my ancestors fought against turkish slavery in bulgaria, they fought honestly with guns in hand, not robbing shops and stealing shoes and clothes. blaming the origin is unfair, dishonest and unjust, gentlemen. blaming one race is an extremely vile political act. you're also trying to make someone feel guilty about where they came from. no, that's not gonna happen. i'm not ashamed of my origin and my nation. on the contrary, i am proud of the ancient and great nation to which i belong.
madam president, george floyd died when he was stopped by three policemen in minnesota and three weeks later, statues of winston churchill and charles de gaulle are being defaced and here we are, i hear you accusing all of europe of racism. but what happened to us? you don't fight injustice with another injustice. we cannot do justice to george floyd by accusing all the police and gendarmes in europe. justice begins with refusing amalgamation. every year, police officers and gendarmes give their lives for our security and peace and they don't have the right to say a word here. do their lives not count? racism is not fought by feeding dangerous fiction into the powder keg of resentment. how can we say that europe is pursuing policies of structural racism in all areas throughout our countries? i will not allow the immense effort of citizens who, throughout europe, contribute to the most generous educational, social and migration policies in the world to be insulted, and this is not a theoretical question, because by entering this spiral of resentment, you add to the reserves of violence that have long been accumulated by those who dream of fracturing our societies. racism will not be fought by reviving racial divisions. the history of europe is made up of greatness, but it is also made up of weaknesses, as is the history of the world, but our civilization has for 24 centuries formed the idea of the universal. have we forgotten this by voting today a resolution that separates black lives from others? a genuinely european parliament should have only one fight: every life counts.
madam president, this month we have seen thousands of people taking to the streets demanding justice for the killing of george floyd. a police officer pressed his knee into mr floyd’s neck for a breath-taking eight minutes as he lay pinned on the ground in handcuffs, and mr floyd’s killing is not an exception. he’s one out of many unarmed black men who has died at the hands of law-enforcement officers. people are rightfully demanding justice for mr floyd but also for all the other innocent lives that have been taken before. the call for justice against institutional racism is not new, but the movement is stronger and broader than ever. young, old, black, white: everyone is demanding systemic change. the call for racial justice quickly moved to europe too. this highlights that racism is not exclusively an american problem. also in europe, racial discrimination against people of colour runs deep in our institutions and societies. black lives matter, and that means we have work to do as well. and lastly, our healing cannot succeed without acknowledgment. we need to recognise the injustices of our dark colonial past and how it still influences much of today’s society, and especially the lives of black and brown people. the protests fill me with hope and together we have the momentum to change.
madam president, can you imagine what it does to a mother’s heart when your daughter asks you every day, ‘mama, i don’t want to have my colour. i want to be white. can you make me white?’ can you imagine? well i can, because it happens to me. i have a beautiful black husband and two beautiful coloured children, so this debate is a very important one. let the death of george floyd be a game-changer. let us fight against racism, online hate speech, discrimination, all together and harder than we did in the past. europe is the most progressive continent on human rights, on values, but ms von der leyen, over the last days, i was a little bit disappointed. today you made a very strong statement, but these last days the commission and the council were too silent. that’s why we speak out loud today, why we vote a strong resolution, to come out and speak and not speak but to act, so that every child of every colour can grow up safe in europe. black lives matter. (applause)
madam president, the death of george floyd on may 25 in minneapolis is outrageous and it is normal. she's part of a list, a very long list of black people who have been killed by the police in the united states for decades, and for which justice has not been done in most cases. yes, on many levels, there is structural racism in the american system, but systemic racism also exists in our european democracies, our societies. european citizens suffer daily in their access to housing, education and employment because of the colour of their skin, their origin, their supposed origin or the origin of their parents. there is not enough diversity in our institutions, hardly any, and we see it in this parliament. there is not enough diversity in our administrations. but most importantly, some of our fellow citizens suffer every day, suffer every day during police arrests. they suffer from police violence sometimes, from frequent checks, and our governments continue to ignore the systematic nature of these incidents. there have been deaths like george floyd's in france, germany, belgium and elsewhere, and there will be more if we refuse to face this problem and dare to ask the question of these daily arrests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted that we are having this debate today. in this assembly, too often, neo-fascist or neo-nazi parties, although incredibly small in number, take advantage of any debate to pour their hateful rhetoric on the other. today's debate is therefore very important in reminding our fellow citizens who are victims of racism in europe of a crucial fact: we meps are here for them! we're here to counter this divisive discourse. we are here to speak louder than the mini-trumps, the half-bolsonaros, the ventriloquists of le pen or the salvinis with their feet on the ground. voting after voting, debate after debate, resolution after resolution, we will not allow a comma, not a word, to be left to racist and xenophobic ideologies. the european project is built on reconciliation with each other, europe is the best shield against the racist far right. at the heart of our identity, we recognize the pride and strength of our diversity. no to racism, united in diversity, we are stronger, we are more beautiful.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, the resolution before you contains the text supported by all the parliamentary groups in the committee on fisheries, which reiterates the fundamental principle that michel barnier strongly advocates in the negotiations: there can be no agreement with the united kingdom that does not incorporate a long-term, balanced, sustainable agreement on fisheries, allowing reciprocal access to waters and resources between the partners that are now the european union and the united kingdom. this is a major economic and social issue, with tens of thousands of jobs at stake. this is a challenge for our territories which live off this activity, this exceptional know-how, and which could be weakened by a no-deal exit. finally, it is an ecological issue because the common fisheries policy has enabled us, for years, to implement a fisheries policy with the british that respects biodiversity. we must maintain these common rules, and it is in this spirit that we wish to continue to work, and i would like to thank the whole negotiating team and all the members of parliament, our colleagues, for having incorporated this position into this important text.
madam president, four months is the time we have left to reach a partnership agreement between the united kingdom and the european union; it is short. it's short, but it's possible. i am sure that like the european peoples we represent here, the british people want us to maintain strong and mutually beneficial ties, that they want the planet to be preserved tomorrow as it is today, that the rights of workers are protected, that the health and food security of all is the focus of all attention. i have no doubt that the british people are committed to protecting their personal data, i know, because they keep saying it, that british companies, like european companies, hope to be able to continue their industrial cooperation and trade, because it is in everyone's interest. what we are voting on tomorrow is a strong political signal. the signal that we are defending the interests of all europeans who elected us and who count on us: our farmers, our fishermen, our businesses, our citizens. a strong signal of unity among the representatives of the peoples of europe on what constitutes the basis of a fair and balanced agreement, which it will be up to us to ratify, since on this side of the channel, it is our parliament that will have the last word. no one wants to add the negative consequences of a lack of agreement to that of the covid-19 pandemic, no one is responsible for the epidemic we are experiencing, but we have a shared responsibility to avoid adding crisis to crisis. we have little time, but we have a path, the path laid out in the political declaration that the europeans and the british negotiated together, signed together, and which alone can save us from wasting more precious time. we shall vote tomorrow and tomorrow will be the 18th of june, the anniversary of the appeal made by general de gaulle from london when we were united in our struggle. i ask our british friends to live up to this common destiny, to this community of values which has made us great, to be ambitious together.
madam president, a people has chosen, a country has left the european union. it is now a reality, and boris johnson has just said it again, he wants to get a deal without delay. the choice of the british has shown that when the people want it, the people can. he has shown an extraordinary ability to take charge of his choices beyond pressure and manipulation. that is also true of boris johnson. refusing to back down, he lied to the prophets of doom predicting the ten plagues of london on his country, in case of confirmation of brexit. better, it is the european union today that is worried about competition in all areas of britain, finally freed from its shackles. while it is clear that a fair deal is needed, we also understand boris johnson who will use his free hands, as he says, to tackle the ills that his country is going through, the same as ours. in immigration, for example, no more ideological muzzling, only foreigners with a guaranteed job paying more than £30,000 (€35,000) a year will be able to knock on the door of the country to work there. of course, not all problems will be solved by a magic brexit. france is not britain either, but the direction is the right one, that of a country that is no longer submissive, but a friend of europe, favouring its own without isolating itself from others, preserving identity and not programmed dilution, the choice of cooperation against that of suggestion, the choice of the europe of nations against that proposed by the eu of cold and contemptuous technocrats so well embodied by michel barnier.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has launched a reflection on the future of europe, which it envisages as a direct dialogue between itself and the citizens. it is true that the treaty of rome and its signatory countries were full of hope for the european project, but all this seems so far away. what if the crises we are experiencing were to become the swan song of this federalist and technocratic europe? the european union falls from charybdis to scylla: health failure in the face of the covid-19 pandemic, failure around the issues of borders and unlocking, failure to date also of a consensus on the recovery plan. but let us not be mistaken, chess is not new, unfortunately. so what is the future for europe? to decide where you're going, you have to know where you're coming from. europe's roots, culture, wounds and greatness are not a negotiable legacy, globalisation has made our continent a land of passage and repentance. the peoples are attached to their land, their country, their nobles. the ultra-liberal dogma has been lived, federalism must be seen as one of the lessons of the past. the europe of the nations, which we call by our vows, will be a path of hope for the peoples who wish to regain their sovereignty at last.
in writing. we are living in historic times that are driving historic changes in all of us. the global coronavirus pandemic needs to clearly and unequivocally reshape our thinking and our attitude towards such entrenched, sacred-cow dogmas as national sovereignty. the pandemic has shown that it knows no borders and no time zones, and that effective responses to it can only be deeply integrated and coordinated. when we talk about the future of europe, one of the first and most important questions to ask is: how long will we allow such a deep gap between the public health systems of the member states? what european community has a citizen who is three times more likely to contract a hospital infection than a fellow european citizen who lives just a few hundred kilometres away? when we think about the future of europe, we need to be able to answer the question: is it normal that in an eastern european member state, due to the protocols in place and the differences in the quality of care, a european citizen is less likely to be diagnosed with cancer in time than a citizen in the west? i don't think he's all right. i believe that an enlightened, solidarity-based european community cannot tolerate these profound differences. i think it is unacceptable that the european union can and does shrug its shoulders at such situations, leaving the organisation of health care to the member states. it is therefore necessary to review the competences of the member states and to define minimum quality standards in the field of public health. i'm working on it! i'll take that.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the members of the european council, in their joint statement on 26 march, underlined that the covid—19 pandemic constitutes an unprecedented challenge for europe and the whole world, requiring urgent, decisive and comprehensive action at eu, national, regional and local levels. they pledged to do everything that is necessary to protect our citizens and overcome the crisis by preserving our european ways and way of life. members of the european council also welcomed the commission guidelines on the screening of foreign direct investment and called on the member states to take all the necessary measures to protect strategic assets and technology from foreign investments that could threaten legitimate public policy objectives. in the words of the leaders, this will contribute to the eu’s strategic autonomy during the crisis and afterwards. it is clear that the european union will not get out of this crisis by closing its doors to international trade and investment. many european companies are fully integrated in the global supply chain and a significant share of our employment is made possible thanks to international trade and investment. global trade and investment will therefore remain fundamental for europe’s recovery and growth. the european union needs to diversify and solidify its global supply chains to ensure the continuous flow of goods and services and to be better prepared for future crises. however, at this time the european union also needs to be particularly vigilant to ensure that we preserve those assets that are crucial to our security and that are part of the backbone of our economy. this will directly affect our capability to recover fast. the economic crisis resulting from covid—19 has weakened many european companies who have seen their stock prices fall. the danger of predatory takeovers by foreign companies, in particular those in state hands or with strong state support, is very real. the eu’s openness to foreign direct investment therefore has to be balanced with adequate tools and protection. eu rules already provide a framework to guarantee the protection of legitimate public objectives and ministers for the internal market and industry regularly discuss the competitiveness of the eu economy and in particular its industry. the discussion focused on strengthening the european strategic economic sectors and value chains and, in this context, also the protection from foreign takeovers. ministers have welcomed the new industrial strategy for europe that was presented by the commission in march. they support the action announced by the commission to reinforce the eu’s strategic digital infrastructures, to develop synergies between civil, defence and space industries, to secure the supply of pharmaceuticals and their ingredients, and to broaden eu access to raw materials, to give just a few examples. at the informal video conference last friday, 12 june, ministers from the internal market and industry also discussed the commission’s communication on the recovery plan package adopted on 27 may. they welcomed the measures proposed by the commission to strengthen eu resilience and strategic autonomy across key technologies and value chains, while preserving the benefits of an open economy. ministers also welcomed a new european strategic investment facility under investeu to support european resilience and investment in strategic industrial chains, notably those linked to the green and the digital transition. the ministers took note of the commission’s intention to propose a reinforced foreign direct investment screening mechanism, which would help the eu to protect its strategic assets, infrastructure and technologies from foreign direct investments that could threaten the security of the public order. the existing fdi screening regulation was already a priority file for the three institutions during the past legislature. this regulation was agreed very swiftly and in a very consensual manner by the co—legislators. our collective engagement in this dossier has made the eu better able today to face the challenge in front of us. as you know, a significant and increasing number of member states already have a screening mechanism in place and many others are accelerating the creation of their national contact points. the cooperation and exchange of information among member states and with the commission about potential foreign takeovers affecting our security or public order has increased sharply. the commission is regularly analysing and reporting on investment trends in an expert group, as foreseen in the regulation. moreover, the upcoming commission white paper on an instrument on foreign subsidies will be a good opportunity to address the issue of state subsidies from third countries that have the potential of further disrupting the level playing field in the eu single market. the examples i have just mentioned show how institutional cooperation has improved the situation on the ground for our companies. finally, allow me to reiterate that the council and the member states will take all the necessary measures to protect strategic assets and technology from foreign investments that could threaten legitimate public policy objectives.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this debate today in the european parliament is extremely timely, protecting europe’s strategic sectors from foreign takeovers in a post-covid world. and i think we all realise that the current geopolitical context, the global economic environment, is probably the most difficult in recent history. openness to trade and investments and to a rule-based multilateral order, they are all being challenged. so today, the european commission has adopted a white paper, which launches a public consultation on ideas for future rules to make sure that foreign subsidies won’t undermine the level playing field in europe’s single market. right now, as we start to rebuild from the damage that the coronavirus is doing, we need the single market more than ever. foreign investment is an important source of jobs and growth and very much welcome in europe, but when foreign governments give subsidies to support investment and operations in the single market, that can affect our level playing field in several ways. to give you a couple of examples: if businesses are being subsidised that are already in europe; if businesses are being helped by foreign subsidies to buy european businesses; subsidies can help foreign companies to outbid rivals in public tenders and some subsidised companies can even get access to money from the european budget. in this white paper, we produce three different modules with three different ways to deal with these situations. module 1 is a general market scrutiny instrument to capture all market situations where foreign subsidies would distort the single market. the competence would be shared between member states and the commission and if a subsidy is found to distort the single market then redressive measures could be imposed. or if the subsidy investment or economic activity has a positive impact that outweighs the distortion, the commission could decide not to pursue it further. and this is what we call the eu interest test. module 2 specifically addresses distortions caused by foreign subsidies facilitating acquisitions of eu companies. the commission would be the competent supervisory authority and a transaction could not be closed whilst the commission’s review is still pending. here, commitments might be accepted to allow for the acquisition and also here an eu interest test could be applied. module 3 addresses the issues that might arise in public procurement and sets out a mechanism where bidders would have to notify any financial contribution received from third countries. the competent authorities would then assess whether there is a foreign subsidy and whether that has made the procurement procedure unfair. the bidder would be excluded from the procurement process on this basis. finally, we also propose to look at access to eu funding in the context of foreign subsidies, both when eu funds are implemented by the member states and when they’re implemented by the european commission directly. obviously, these are complex matters. so, we are launching a public consultation. it will be open for 14 weeks until 23 september. and we hope to get a wide range of views and suggestions and this obviously is the best possible way of starting this consultation by getting the views of the european parliament.
member of the commission. – madam president, as my colleague, executive vice-president commissioner vestager, has said, the debate in the european parliament this evening is very timely, for the reasons that she has just outlined, but also, we are living in a global public health challenge that is having profound consequences on our economies and on our daily lives. the covid-19 emergency has exposed our vulnerability in many respects, and one of them is the resilience of our strategic industries in their capacity to respond to the vital needs of the european people. we all agree that investment, including foreign direct investment (fdi), will play a central role in our economic recovery in each member state, but foreign direct investment will also contribute to bridging the gap of domestic financing for the eu’s economic recovery and future ambitions, including greening our economy and making it fit for the digital age. in addition, foreign direct investment turbocharges research and innovation. foreign—owned firms account for a quarter of business in terms of r&d in france, germany and spain, between 30% and 50% in portugal and sweden, and more than 50% in austria, belgium and ireland. but foreign investments should not happen at the expense of our own internal security. this is where our fdi screening regulation plays a very important role in addressing the concerns when foreign investment may put european security or public order at risk. the commission is closely following developments in the european union, and at the end of march, we issued, as the council president has said, special guidance to member states on the protection of europe’s strategic assets, ahead of the full application of the fdi screening regulation in october 2020. it reminds member states of the interdependencies that exist in the european single market. it calls on all of them to seek advice and coordination in cases where foreign investments could, actually or potentially, now or in the future, have an effect on public order or security. those member states that have screening mechanisms should take full advantage of that and use them, and those that do not should certainly put them in place as soon as possible. europe has a strict and unique system of state aid control and transparency in place, but there is increasing concern that some third countries do not shy away from intervening in our markets with massive amounts of subsidies, and such third—country subsidies will then distort the european union’s internal market. so investors receiving such subsidies could aim to acquire eu companies and could, thanks to their state financing, outbid other companies, including european companies. as executive vice-president vestager said, the commission has today adopted a white paper, which launches a very important public consultation on the ideas for future roles to make sure that foreign subsidies don’t undermine the level playing field in europe’s single market. i look forward to hearing your views.
we now continue our debate on the council and commission statements on the protection of strategic european sectors from foreign takeover in the post-covid era (2020/2663 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, china is not the only state on a shopping spree for companies weakened by the impact of the pandemic. yet, it is definitely the proverbial elephant in the room in this debate. it leaves no doubt that our china policy could do with a healthy dose of realism. we should not adopt the approach of president trump, who acts more like the proverbial elephant in the china shop. the white paper on foreign subsidies gives good options, but actions speak louder than words. actions such as the pioneering countervailing duties levied on imports of fibreglass stemming from chinese state-subsidised companies producing abroad in egypt. but more can be done: a china taskforce, to speak with china with one single voice on all different levels; secondly, we can beef up our fdi screening instrument; thirdly, we can move forward on the instrument for public procurement. if we are to keep up public support for our trade policy, we must equip it with the tools to enforce fair competition.
the economic effects of the coronavirus crisis must not be used to make profits at the expense of weakened companies. millions of jobs in europe are already dependent on the whims of foreign investors. the employees of apollo vredestein and tata steel can speak for themselves. they're fighting against decision-making at board tables, far away. the rules on foreign investment need to be revised, with a clear definition of what strategic sectors are. are these only the factories that make medical devices, for example, or are we prepared to secure other strategic sectors for our continent? we cannot stand by and watch companies with unfair subsidies seize the crisis to make a bargain. it's up to all of us to protect jobs and businesses.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam executive vice-president, commissioner, dear representatives of the council, dear colleagues, in december 2019, president ursula von der leyen announced that the commission she will chair would play a strong geopolitical role. the white paper on foreign subsidies which you are presenting today is a real step in this direction, and i welcome it, especially in the current context where the european commission is working intensively on crisis management, in particular through the temporary framework on state aid. in the annual report on competition policy, for which i am rapporteur and which will be voted on tomorrow, we call, together with my colleagues, on the european commission to strengthen competition policy in the context of globalisation and to ensure reciprocity with third countries in the field of public procurement and state aid. our view is clear: we must adapt our rules to the present situation in order to fill two legal gaps. first, our state aid rules do not apply to non-european operators, who have full access to our single market, and lastly, neither eu antitrust nor merger control rules take foreign subsidies into account. imagine, ladies and gentlemen, a football match where the rules of the foreign team playing at home are much more lenient than those of the home team. no need to watch the game, because without being a spectator, you already know in advance who will win, but in a totally unfair way! the covid-19 crisis has alerted us to the need to preserve our key sectors to achieve a resilient europe. hostile takeovers of companies weakened by the crisis cannot be commonplace, on the pretext that we have not been able to prevent them, and i welcome the ways outlined today by the commission, which will make it possible to investigate and prevent this type of predatory behaviour. however, there is still a long way to go, and i hope that the public consultation will answer these questions, in particular: what is the distribution of powers between the commission and the member states, what freedom for the member states which already now readily accept foreign investment or the purchase of their national treasures by heavily subsidised foreign companies? one thing is certain, if we want this to work, we must stand together, otherwise our trading partners will play on our diversity more than our unity.
- i'm not going to. but may i make it clear that the european parliament has never closed its doors, but that we are the only international, multinational organisation which has continuously continued to work in a multilingual and remote way and has demonstrated its capacity to act as the european house of citizens?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the port of piraeus, the airport of toulouse, alstom. up until now, everything in our house was for sale. the commission is finally responding with this white paper. the screening of foreign investment is indeed vital, but it is not enough. i will tell you the story of a french plant, gerzat, the last plant in europe capable of producing oxygen cylinders for our hospitals and firefighters. a year ago, the anglo-american management of luxfer decided to close this factory, despite profits increasing by 55%, and here we are today totally dependent on the united states or turkey to produce this. luxfer is the name of an abandonment of solidarity and an abandonment of sovereignty. so, ladies and gentlemen, we have a 2 000 billion euro arm: public procurement. we need a buy european act today. we can't just sit here, unable to produce any tissue or basic medicines. the european citizens would not forgive us for this, and they would be right.
in writing. in the face of the covid-19 crisis, the commission presents a series of measures that are totally inadequate. the national rally meps, on the other hand, propose concrete measures: an immediate €50 billion solar plan and a major awareness-raising campaign for local tourism; the abolition of tax and social charges for 2020 for companies in the tourism sector that have achieved less than 70% of their usual turnover; the abolition of the cfe for 6 months; the acceleration of the procedure for reimbursement of partial unemployment; the obligation for banks to grant loans guaranteed by the state; the contribution of insurance in the event of loss of business; assistance and advice in bringing establishments and activities up to health standards; assistance in training staff on the new health protocols; support for the adaptation of enterprises to the new situation: local customers, promotion of local products; the extension of the terraces on the public road in connection with the mayors, at no additional cost; the automatic renewal in 2021 of all concession contracts.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i would like to express my deep concern here today. under the coalition agreement which brought it to power, the israeli government is considering annexing part of the occupied west bank. this annexation would be illegal, dangerous and the poisonous fruit of a power struggle. but here in europe, despite all the things that divide us, we are united in one certainty: that force does not give all rights. what unites us is the conviction that the force of law must always prevail over the right of the strongest. i say this with great friendship for israel because friendship imposes duties. i say this because i place my hopes in the wisdom of israeli democracy. i say this, as my country did when it saw the united states go wrong in 2003 by starting a war in iraq for the wrong reasons, a war that had so many negative consequences. a friend's job is not to keep quiet, but to warn someone who is about to go wrong. we all know in europe that we make peace only with our enemies. you, israel, have the power for yourself, so serve him for peace. remember what itzhak rabin said: only a strong people can make peace with its enemies. because you are strong, be just!
mr president, commissioner, with the covid-19 crisis, the member states and the european union have been responsible for many violations of the rights of mobile workers. the sudden closure of the frontiers has left the most vulnerable of the vulnerable, migrant workers from third countries, alone, facing the abuse of certain employers: without social security, without resources and in unsuitable housing conditions, sometimes without the possibility of returning home. as much as nationalists dislike it, these people are essential to our economy, to our agriculture, to the building of our countries, and this treatment is not worthy of european values. on european soil, the equal rights of all must be proclaimed once and for all. this resolution is a step forward, but we still have a long way to go. it is time for europe to move from exploiting these migrant workers to recognising their contribution to our economy and food sovereignty. it is time for equality of rights to become a concrete, real and verifiable reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak to you about yasmine. yasmine picks up the melons, apricots and peaches that we like to eat at this time. yasmine works 260 hours a month, and she gets paid in bits and pieces. she has days without a break, so when she wants to eat, she has to hide in the bathroom. yasmine is sick, she has multiple sclerosis, because of all the years spent working in these conditions. moreover, she is not even covered by social security. what i am talking about is the daily life of hundreds of workers, seasonal workers, workers who come from spain and sometimes from guinea and colombia, who are posted to france, germany and elsewhere to pick fruit and vegetables. the covid-19 crisis has exacerbated the difficulties experienced by these exploited workers who, often, have been housed during this crisis in conditions of extreme poverty, conducive to the spread of the coronavirus. the exploitation of these men and women must end. it is unacceptable and it is high time that the european union guarantees the respect of the rights of these workers and repeals the directive on posted work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, seasonal and crossborder workers are an indispensable category for many sectors of activity. during the covid-19 pandemic, their shortage has put the very existence of many farms in the european union at risk. at the same time, however, in many countries they have found themselves in difficult situations that have endangered their lives and social security. commissioner, the european union must find mechanisms to impose on the member states of destination the obligation to ensure safe working conditions and to guarantee adequate wages for the work done. the accommodation must meet legal and reasonable living standards and social security must guarantee them effective protection in the event of illness, including in the event of a pandemic. it is also necessary to set up telephone lines that are available in several languages of the european union countries, so that workers have the opportunity, once again, to check their rights and obligations, but also to complain about abuses or breaches of their employment contracts.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the initiative of this resolution on the protection of seasonal frontier workers in the covid-19 crisis. we don't find out the situation with this crisis, but it has amplified it. the principle of free movement of european workers within the european union is an essential right, but it must not be contrary to the principle of equal treatment between them. the coronavirus crisis has unfortunately revealed the existence of abuses and breaches of european legislation, which each member state has the responsibility to enforce. i would therefore like to stress the need to ensure that seasonal and frontier workers have effective social protection and adequate health and safety conditions. finally, i would like to stress the major role of the european labour authority, the labour inspectorates and the rapid and proper transposition of the revised directive on posted workers.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, deforestation in the amazon continues to break records, causing legitimate concern even in our own parliament. tropical forests are the first to be affected by deforestation, both man-made and natural. while your commission is debating this, we are seeing a decline in agricultural land in europe. in france, they now represent only 54% of the territory, while artificial soils are increasing, representing today 10% of the metropolitan area. whose fault is it? to you and your farming model. if there is any criticism of the brazilian government's assessment of the situation, this cannot distract you from your own responsibilities. how can you be indignant at the practices of third countries when european imports are encouraging imported deforestation? europe is the leading continent in terms of imported deforestation. the european union has direct influence on the import of soya products, palm oil, cocoa and rubber. as for land grabbing, the causes are clear: agricultural globalisation. for the past 20 years, soybeans have been one of the main drivers of deforestation, particularly in the amazon. between 70% and 90% of the world's soybean production is used to feed livestock. it is then bought by the agri-food industry and the large retailers. this intensive model is one of the pillars of your treaties, the latest of which is the infamous and shameful mercosur treaty. how can you be concerned about deforestation in brazil when you know that the mercosur treaty encourages this practice? this is shameful! that is why the dutch parliament voted against this treaty, and i welcome that. the european union wants to import more than 300 000 tonnes of meat from south america at much reduced customs duties. and here again, your europeanist vision is damaging both to producers and to the environment. so you are a necessary link in the chain of deforestation, you have to admit. how can you be concerned about this situation when so many of you are slavishly signing the free trade agreements that are causing this deforestation? let us get out of the many free trade agreements that the european union has ratified, let us defend another model geared towards localism, let us stop importing the products of daily life that are cheaper than the product of the next farm, let us stop this excessive liberalization and let us return to a model that is really ethical.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in may 2019, 739 square kilometers of the amazon rainforest disappeared. that's the equivalent of two football fields every minute. this is the highest level of slaughter in a single month of may since the brazilian government introduced a satellite monitoring system that measures this particular slaughter. deforestation of the brazilian rainforest increased by almost 30 percent between august 2018 and july 2019. in all, 9,762 square kilometers of rain forest were cleared to make way for farmland over a 12-month period, an area the size of cyprus. so it's a wild ride, the forest disappearing. in addition, in the first four months of 2020, the number of cuts increased by 55% compared to the same period last year. in total, 1,202 square kilometers of forest were destroyed between january and april. that is an area more than two and a half times the size of the city of gothenburg, sweden. that's the largest area of land cleared at this time of year since the measurements began in august 2015. this slaughter is continuing because of the need for more agricultural land, to be able to grow more palm oil which we consumers in europe use. we're a major contributor to this carnage. the eu's green deal, where we now want to change fuel laws for example there will be more green fuel for our vehicles includes a large component of palm oil. so the need will increase further. the eu wants aviation to use more environmentally friendly fuels. this will mean an additional increase in the demand for palm oil. we're clearing the rainforest at an ever-accelerating rate because of the decisions we make here, the background of which ordinary people on the street can barely understand. in sweden, we like to beat ourselves up because our public transport is environmentally friendly, for example, because we use environmentally friendly fuel in our buses. it's not environmentally friendly. it contributes to the destruction of the amazon rain forest. so while we are beating our chests and claiming that we are environmentally friendly and good in sweden driving our public buses on environmentally friendly fuel, the amazon rainforest is being cleared and the indigenous people are being formally evicted from their former homes. it's a cynical scenario. the eu needs to review its strategy urgently, because it is completely misguided as it is at the moment. the eu's need for palm oil to produce biofuels will contribute to even more deforestation in the amazon rainforest, which is very much the lungs of the earth. this can't go on. the eu must take greater responsibility.
madam president, what we are witnessing in the amazon is unfortunately a foretold tragedy, it is an attack on the environment and an attack on indigenous communities, who are being decimated first by the occupation of their lands and now by the abandonment to which they are being voted in the context of the covid-19 pandemic. in brazil, we have a president, jair bolsonaro, who is a promoter of absolutely criminal activities and actions. we're talking about a country where its president is against his people and indigenous people and is against protecting the amazon. the commissioner has come to say that we are in favour of this protection, both of human rights and of the amazon, but he also says that he will continue negotiating the eu-mercosur agreement and that in that agreement he will press for these rights to be respected. let's be very honest and very honest! this agreement has been in negotiation for a long time and there is absolutely no pressure! in fact, the brazilian authorities are behaving in exactly the opposite way. it's that the more the agreement goes forward, the more the amazon is destroyed, the more indigenous communities are attacked. and in that sense, i want to appeal to the european commission: listen to the voices of the brazilian people, listen to the voices of those who are the lungs, the defence of the lungs of the amazon, who are the indigenous peoples, listen to our voices and put an end to this agreement. we must stand with the people and not with the multinationals.
madam president, commissioner sinkevičius, the images of the destruction of the amazon rainforest haunt the collective memory in the european union. they may have gone off the screen, but the destruction is there, and the brazilian government is now legally encouraging land grabbing aimed at over-production of soy, over-grazing of cattle, over-exploitation of the forest for rubber production. you know, all these products, to be produced in such large quantities, that means they are available in the markets and that is where our strength lies. as the european union, we have the single market and we must use our power to lead the way. it is very important that we actually check the conditions in our trade relations with the mercosur countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. under no circumstances should we encourage practices that encourage governments to break climate rules and contribute to climate change. the commission's initiative for a legislative proposal in 2021 actually sets conditions so that products which do not comply with environmental criteria do not reach the european market, and i would like to thank you for that, commissioner. but you know the amazon is next door -- it's here. the whole planet is one neighborhood, as the covid-19 pandemic has sadly proven. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected. for us and for our children.
madam president, i would like to begin by paying tribute to chico mendes, who was murdered in brazil more than 30 years ago for having once defended the amazon rainforest and the seringueiros. since his murder, hundreds of indigenous people and trade unionists have been murdered in brazil, four just, five even in the last four months. i would like to see more than just denouncing bolsonaro and the brazilian government and pointing out the culprits. of course they have their responsibilities, but let us not forget - it has been said and i want to emphasize this point - that deforestation, that these crimes against the planet, biodiversity, life, that the taking of indigenous lands, that their own genocide, all this is also our responsibility. it is to import soybeans to feed our herds and animals in general, it is to import palm oil and fly our planes that this forest is destroyed. that said, the area of a football field is being destroyed every second right now in brazil, half of the global deforestation is happening in the amazon. we have to face the facts. i'll just quote a man of the church. four centuries ago, bossuet said: god laughs at men who lament the effects and cherish the causes. it is time to look at our own responsibility, not to be mere passive spectators or even accomplices, but to realize that we are co-authors of these tragedies. you have said that, commissioner, and we support you on this point, we must immediately change our laws, we must make sure that the duty of vigilance governs our international agreements, we must end free trade agreements as they are. yes, europe must remain open, but we must stop both mercosur and everything that is destroying the planet now.
madam president, i am shocked to witness the latest surge of deforestation in the brazilian amazon. 2020 is on course to become the most destructive year ever for the amazon. this coincided with the corona pandemic, whose epicentre moved to brazil. i was dismayed by the statement of the environment minister, ricardo salles, who wanted to use the fact that the whole world is looking to the pandemic to deregulate and simplify environmental legislation. so, indigenous people are among the hardest hit, not only because they are losing their land due to illegal logging and land grabbing, but also because of the pandemic — their death rate is twice as high compared with that of the rest of the population. european companies are also responsible, through their financing of the big landowners and their exploitation of land for food and meat production. this has to end. consumers need to be alert and we need to stop the dangerous mercosur deal.
the commission has already done so. the minister of the environment of the bolsonaro government made the following proposal in one of the recent cabinet meetings: "now that the media is only talking about covid, we must use this moment of calm to change all the regulations" "regulations that so far prevent mining and agriculture in protected areas". this attitude of the bolsonaro government is outrageous! it would be absurd - and yes, it is our responsibility, mr durand - if we as the eu were to conclude some kind of trade agreement with this government, which has been shown not to believe a word of its promises under the sustainability chapter of the agreement. that's our responsibility too. we must include instruments in our trade policy to prevent crimes against indigenous peoples and the environment. social and environmental standards in international agreements must be made binding and enforceable. what would happen in reality if we ratified the mercosur agreement? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. he's laughing at us. so, commissioner, you do not have to present a trade agreement to us in this house. we also need a comprehensive supply chain law to address the black sheep among european companies that profit from the deforestation of tropical rainforests through imports.
madam president, commissioner, i can only agree with what my colleagues have said about the situation in brazil and the issue of deforestation. i can only join those who have criticized the bolsonaro government on the lack of respect for human rights, the lack of respect for workers' rights, the lack of respect for its territory in relation to this deforestation. and i can only agree with what pascal durand said earlier, namely that we are jointly responsible as europeans. our co-responsibility if we continue to go straight for the wall with trade agreements which have today proved their inability, i say their inability, to enforce the question of environmental law. so, commissioner, when you say that the sustainable development chapter, which is now mandatory in trade agreements and in mercosur, but not merely mercosur, in all trade agreements, when you say that this tsd will be able to regulate, well no, commissioner, this sustainable development chapter does not regulate anything, it organises discussions but it does not sanction non-respect for the environment. so what we are asking you for is not marketing, it is not new language, it is coercion, it is sanctions and therefore trade agreements, yes, but trade agreements, which are new generation but really new generation, which actually allow sanctions to be imposed on countries, such as brazil, such as other countries, which do not respect these rights and we are also asking that there should be a duty of vigilance for european multinationals and that when they invest in countries which do not respect human rights, which do not respect environmental rights, they, wherever they are, should have the possibility to lodge complaints. these complaints must be filed and must be respected, it is the right of humanity. today, we have indigenous peoples who are being exterminated in the amazon, we must give them the right to file a complaint against multinationals who do not respect anything.
madam president, the deforestation of the amazon is the result of a policy as degraded as these vast areas of deforestation which continue to grow every year. the appropriation of wooded areas by private individuals can be described as zero-level politics. yes, i say zero-degree politics, because the actors of the degradation of the amazon forest know very well that they can count on the complicity of the current government and its president. the commission also found that the exporting producer had not provided any evidence that the exporting producer had been in a situation of financial difficulties. at that time, a voluntary approach had succeeded in limiting the damage, notably by strengthening the brazilian environmental protection agency and creating a fund to support forest conservation projects. this policy also breaks with the commitments made by brazil at the copenhagen climate conference. what can be done? i am very sympathetic to the ways in which the commission has been working this morning, but i have my doubts as to their effectiveness. the duty of vigilance of our importing companies on a voluntary basis is very good, but is it enough? the same applies to the policy of dialogue or political dialogue. yes, we must do it out of conscience but i do not think we will get very far. do you think bolsonaro will move? let us remember that he is part of the group of men who, at international level, enjoy considerable support and who, with the bible in their hands and the destructive rage in their bellies, are preparing to eliminate one by one the multilateral acquis, these acquis which are essential for the structuring of our planet, whose very existence is threatened. you understand where i'm going with this: simply the eu-mercosur trade agreement, which, if left unchanged, will be welcomed by bolsonaro as a bonus for irresponsibility.
madam president, what is happening in the amazon cannot leave us indifferent. the amazon rainforest, vital to the lives of indigenous peoples, the lungs of humanity, an extraordinary reservoir of biodiversity, is being destroyed. it is the victim of an industrial agriculture model, including intensive soya cultivation. it is responsible not only for deforestation but also for the pollution of rivers and streams with pesticides, the destruction of the habitats of many animal species and the land grabbing at the expense of farmers. at the same time, bolsonaro is dismantling environmental protection, promoting illegal logging and violating the rights of indigenous peoples. this is not just a brazilian problem. when europe imports gm soybeans, when it negotiates a free trade agreement with mercosur, when our banks or our companies finance this destruction, europe is complicit in this ecocide. climate change and the current crisis show that now is the time to act. deforestation continues to worsen despite the proliferation of international initiatives. the european union must show leadership and take strong and concrete action. tomorrow will be too late.
madam president, this is a message for each and every one of us: i would like to ask ourselves collectively what we are doing here to build the world of tomorrow. a more just world, a more united world, a world that puts people and the environment back at the centre of every action we take for our survival. what is the point of all this if we accept that at the gates of europe, at the gates of french and european guiana, right next door to us in brazil, a far-right government is allowing a criminal plan to be carried out in cold blood to destroy the amazon rainforest on a massive scale? criminal against indigenous peoples, criminal against our common heritage of global biodiversity, criminal against future generations. words are no longer enough. we have said it a thousand times and our warnings have been repeatedly smashed against the wall of the arrogant cynicism of this far-right president. because you figure, while we were locked down to stand together against the coronavirus, well, in brazil, in may, in a few days, that's the equivalent of 115,000 football fields that were criminally set on fire voluntarily. so not to fight deforestation is to become complicit in a crime against the future of humanity. we dream of an afterlife, but to live, our future needs to breathe, and that breath comes from two lungs: the blue lung of the ocean and the green lung of the forest. we dream of a world after but from today our destinies are linked, no matter where on the planet we are, the time has come to intervene. fifty years ago, a scientist warned us about the effects of a butterfly's beating in brazil. if we do nothing, soon there will be no more butterflies and there will be no more humans.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. many people in the european union expect and expect political wisdom and foresight from this german presidency of the council. never since the eu has this been more necessary than today. but what you are delivering here has nothing to do with intelligence and foresight, but a lot to do with ignorance, infamy and ideology. unfortunately, you are not the noble guardians of the european idea that you are so fond of being celebrated for. you are actually their gravedigger. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the ideals of europe are based on cultural identity, enlightened reason and individual freedom. but they trample all that underfoot. you want to replace europe's cultural identity, its christian-jewish roots, its beauty and diversity with a multiculturalism that is ultimately without culture and without contours. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you do not want to see this, you are ignorant and you overlook the real interests of the people. they feel, by the way, first of all that they are french, italian, polish, hungarian or german and only then that they are european. the enlightenment-era reason demands a policy based on scientific knowledge and respect for the law. your chaotic and mindless monetary and fiscal policies ignore all this, and with 500 billion for the green deal and 750 billion for the recovery fund, you finally leave the basis of sound decisions. this is disgraceful. the most serious problem is the ever-increasing restriction of people's freedom. what you're doing with the green deal, with debt consolidation, with the insane excesses in spending, that's the exact opposite of liberalism. mrs merkel is giving away 500 billion in a very casual way to celebrate the french president and other mediterranean friends. mrs von der leyen spontaneously adds another fabulous 250 billion to the sum. it is not your money, but the money of the taxpayers who will have to pay for this mine. it is state paternalism in its most intense form. all of this is driven at its core by socialist ideology. it is a violation of freedom. and then you, mrs merkel, say that germany must not only think of itself but be prepared to take an extraordinary step of solidarity. do you know that the average wealth of germans is much lower than that of the french, spaniards and italians? are you aware that the home ownership rate in germany is not nearly as high as that of those countries and that germany has a much higher retirement age than all the mediterranean countries? what kind of absurd concept of solidarity do you have, madam chancellor? you, mrs merkel, and you, mrs von der leyen, have for some time now been, together with the president of the ecb, mrs lagarde, a triumvirate of economic horror. instead of using the german presidency to turn the tide on this fatal course, you are even increasing the speed of your political speculation. you are not only doing europe as a whole - and the eu - a disservice, but you are betraying the european idea by your course and are criminally neglecting the future of future generations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, ms merkel, i think i can tell you on behalf of the broad majority of this house: a warm welcome to the european parliament. (applause) es ist sicherlich ein ort, wo man die schwierigkeiten der europäischen union wahrnehmen kann, wo wir aber in einer sehr großen mehrheit alle daran arbeiten, dieses europa für die bürgerinnen und bürger besser zu machen – auch wenn wir uns manchmal darin unterscheiden, wie wir dahin kommen wollen und was das genau heißt –, und ein ort, an dem wir noch härter daran arbeiten müssen, die vielfalt der europäischen union besser zu repräsentieren – in diesem haus. deutschland übernimmt die ratspräsidentschaft in sehr schwierigen zeiten. denn die corona-krise ist auch für die gesamte europäische union zur historischen prüfung geworden. zu beginn der krise drohte die union in nationale einzelteile zu zerfallen: schlagbäume waren zurück in europa, das vertrauen der bürgerinnen und bürger in das gemeinsame europa hat dramatisch gelitten. aber die krise ist auch eine chance, endlich das solidarische europa zu bauen, das wir so dringend brauchen. es ist nun auch an ihnen, frau bundeskanzlerin, und an der gesamten deutschen bundesregierung, diese chance zum aufbruch zu nutzen und europa neu zu einen. ich will ihnen ausdrücklich zu dem deutsch-französischen vorschlag zum aufbaufonds gratulieren. denn er setzt auf mut anstelle von zögern und auf solidarität anstelle von nationalem egoismus. ich glaube, er ist ein zeichen, das sich einige von uns sicherlich auch früher schon gewünscht hätten. aber voilà, here we are. aber noch ist nichts gewonnen. es braucht noch jede menge arbeit, bis tatsächlich so ein fonds, ein programm steht. es braucht dafür starke partnerinnen und partner. wir grüne im europäischen parlament sind bereit, einen ambitionierten aufbauplan mit zu unterstützen. wir stehen ein für einen fonds, der zukunftsinvestition ermöglicht und so den weg ebnet für einen ökologischen und sozialen umbau der wirtschaft, der die herausforderungen unserer zeit angeht, einen fonds, der den am meisten betroffenen ländern in der europäischen union hilft, ohne den schuldenstand mancher länder noch weiter in die höhe zu treiben, und einen fonds, der rechtsstaatlichkeit verteidigt und das klima schützt, der aber nicht die alten fehler wiederholt und auf wirtschaftlich schädliche bedingungen à la troika setzt. dafür setzen wir grüne uns überall ein: hier in brüssel, aber auch in den nationalen parlamenten. die furchtbare corona-krise zeigt, dass wir entschlossen handeln können und damit viel erreichen. diesen mut und diese entschlossenheit brauchen wir auch, um uns der klimakrise entgegenzustellen. denn der klimawandel wartet nun mal nicht, bis wir wieder zeit haben, uns mit ihm zu beschäftigen. wir sind die erste generation, die den klimawandel am eigenen leib spüren kann: sei es bei hitzewellen, waldsterben oder den stärkeren stürmen, die unsere gesundheit gefährden und die die lebensgrundlagen der menschheit bedrohen. und wir sind zugleich die letzte generation, die den klimawandel noch halbwegs aufhalten kann. wir haben die antworten für erneuerbare energien, für die grüne zukunft, die saubere umwelt oder den nachhaltigen verkehr. wir müssen es nur machen, wir müssen es nur umsetzen. die deutsche ratspräsidentschaft kann einen wichtigen beitrag dazu leisten. zentral sind dabei das klimagesetz und die eu-klimaziele bis 2030. aber die müssen ambitioniert sein, denn wir müssen als großer historischer treibhausgasemittor dafür sorgen, dass auch andere länder mit an bord sind, und unserer historischen verantwortung gerecht werden. deswegen fordern wir die gesamte europäische union auf, eine treibhausgasreduktion von 65 % bis 2030 zu beschließen. ich appelliere an sie: zeigen sie mut zu europa und zeigen sie mut im kampf gegen den klimawandel! die welt wartet auf ein signal aus europa. die corona-krise überwinden und die klimakrise verhindern: es kann gelingen. aber dafür müssen wir jetzt handeln, und dafür braucht es auch sie, frau bundeskanzlerin.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank chancellor merkel for being here today to explain the priorities of the german presidency. germany is assuming the presidency at the most difficult time in the history of our continent since the end of the second world war. unfortunately, the european union's response so far has been slow, limited in its effectiveness and lacking a genuine spirit of solidarity between the member states. the commission yesterday cut its growth forecasts for europe: - 8.7% in the euro area, plus - 10% for france, spain and italy. today we have only one certainty: there's no time left, it's time to act. we need to find a deal next week. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the money reaches citizens and businesses as soon as possible. that is why we do not want a compromise on the downside, but an ambitious agreement. germany has a great responsibility this semester: the european union must put aside its selfishness and recover the original spirit of the european union, avoiding the mistakes of the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest countries in the world, and it is therefore proposing to extend the community's aid to the poorest countries in the world. but the internal market must be balanced: the increased flexibility in state aid must not exacerbate disparities between member states. it is right to demand responsibility for the use of resources, but it is wrong to impose constraints which undermine the principle of sovereignty and autonomy of states. we say yes to greater environmental sustainability, but without compromising the economic sustainability of our businesses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we do not need centralized impositions from brussels, but rather we want a european union which is more flexible and more respectful of the prerogatives of the different countries. it is unacceptable that democratically legitimised national governments should be hit with the brunt of alleged violations of the rule of law just because they are not politically aligned with brussels thinking. we also need a shift in immigration policies: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. there is not only the problem of reforming the asylum system, but above all the need to defend the external borders firmly against uncontrolled immigration, including the naval blockade to stop human trafficking. migration blackmail is one of the weapons that erdoğan is using against europe: it is intolerable that turkey should continue to expand its influence in the mediterranean while the european union remains silent. the eu is committed to the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. the fight against terrorism and international trade are areas where we can only be stronger if we reach an agreement with our historical partners. we want a european union which is fearless in its confrontation with china, which vigorously condemns the attitudes of certain member states which turn a blind eye to beijing, which concretely defends the autonomy of hong kong, which is able to protect commercial interests, which is able to combat unfair practices and to defend european assets against the risk of hostile operations. the country of joseph ratzinger, a true european patriot, is yours. (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) i have listened carefully and this parliament must listen carefully to everyone. your country, madam chancellor, is the country of joseph ratzinger, a true european patriot. the pope emeritus has stressed on several occasions that we cannot think of a common european home by denying our identity and our common roots. i hope that your presidency will be guided by these lessons, so that europe does not continue to make the mistakes of the past.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your reply. the council presidency has given you a second chance. the europe you quoted a lot in your speech has not forgotten that the german response, that your response to the financial and economic crisis was austerity at the time. the south of europe in particular paid the price for the crisis. the massive youth unemployment, privatization, the reduction of public services, lower wages and pensions have been mentioned. this wrong policy almost tore the eu apart at the time. i hope that you will find in this presidency the insight to correct the mistakes of that time. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the world. madam chancellor, you will be judged on whether you manage to cope with the coronavirus pandemic economically and socially. but has anyone here today in this debate noticed that so far we have not talked at all about those who have been keeping society going day in and day out in the last few months? has anyone here noticed that those nurses, the medical staff, the educators, the salesmen at the petrol stations, in the supermarkets or in the bakeries have not been mentioned at all in this debate? our political task is to act for these people and to fight against poverty and precarious work. europeans are tired of the quarrels between the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. when i hear again, madam chancellor - and this is something your party colleagues like to say in this debate, but today the president of the commission has made an exception - that the allocation of funds should again be linked to reforms, that is to say again to savings and again to privatisation, one wonders whether the conservatives have not been watching the news in recent months. i would like to give you a piece of advice, mrs merkel: so far the german finance minister, olaf scholz, has blocked the digital tax in the council and has always referred to the oecd. that excuse is now obsolete, after the trump administration pulled out of the international negotiations. germany must stop blocking important projects in the council. in addition to the digital tax, there is also the so-called country-by-country reporting, which is so important to block and hinder the tax avoidance practices of large companies. the social and ecological conversion is a key project - we all agree - for the future of europe. this requires a climate change policy that is committed to the goals of the paris agreement. the green deal as you have presented it today, as mrs von der leyen has repeatedly presented it here, is miles away from that. if you are really concerned about climate protection, why do you insist on a trade agreement such as the one with mercosur? you know as well as i do that the far-right brazilian president bolsonaro is partly responsible for the massive deforestation of the amazon rainforest. i also believe that democracies should not enter into trade agreements with the far right. or, when it comes to business, when economic interests are at stake, do the european values mentioned suddenly no longer matter? at the external borders of europe, these european values sink to the bottom of the mediterranean every day with every drowning person. this is an unbearable condition. these people are not helped by dirty deals with some autocrats or warlords, but by a policy based on human rights, on solidarity. please tell that to your minister of the interior seehofer. but you can strengthen confidence in european democracy, mrs merkel, by reducing lobbying influence in the council and making council minutes transparent. you have also stressed that transparency is a guiding principle of your presidency. this would be a sensible step, and of course many others would have to follow. but it would be a sensible step towards reconciling the contradictions between the member states in the corona crisis with the aim of a more socially just, ecological and democratic european union.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. who else but you could lead the european union out of this crisis? that's the question asked by millions of editors, who, as a rule, can think of no other. europe seems to be feeling an unbridled desire to submit to german leadership. why now and not 80 years ago? the continent would have been spared a lot of trouble. if i read correctly, you are planning to suffocate the coronavirus with a lot of money - something that the eu has unfortunately not succeeded with the no less shabby dictator orbán. they're going to ban climate change and make the chinese laugh a little bit less in the future. you'll manage the migration by making sure the nastiness happens where it's least noticeable. there is only one limit to your power: even you and your 750 billion can't make sure that hamburger sv ever gets back into the bundesliga.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i can actually keep this short. i'd like to start by thanking those who sent me well wishes. i think it is clear that the 'together' does not only refer to the member states, but also to work with the european parliament. it is also clear from the comments that the ideas of what is really to be achieved differ widely. this means that it is not just up to us, the heads of state or government and the president of the council, to find a solution, but that we will all have to come together if we want to achieve something. i want to make it clear - and i have not spoken at length about the rule of law and fundamental rights for nothing - that these are absolute priorities in europe, also for the german presidency of the council. nevertheless, we must also lay the foundations for our ability to work. the medium-term financial framework is one of them, the reconstruction fund is one of them, and i would like to point out today that we will certainly also need to be prepared to compromise with parliament here, because i can tell you - and the president of the council will tell you this - that, of course, the member states still have very different ideas. what is not acceptable, and i want to make this quite clear, is the doctrine of the absolute claim of certain opinions which declare the rest of the world to be deviant. this is incompatible with democracy and tolerance, and we shall not find solutions. i want to make that very clear here. (applause from the centre) we shall indeed also be discussing difficult questions. manfred weber has touched on the subject of "own resources". i would like to point out one aspect here: on the one hand i understand the subject, it is also a concern of the european parliament. on the other hand, for example, certain appropriations which the commission may now regard as own resources are already included in the national budgets. that means that we have to take each other into account and we have to be careful that in a difficult economic period we do not use the word 'own resources' as a false signal of a de facto tax increase - i am not expressly opposed to a digital tax, i want to say this very clearly - as if we had, for example, a general tax increase. that would be a difficult answer in the present difficult economic situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the digital tax is not imposed. of course, it is always better to agree on a global tax at international level, and that is why i think it is perfectly legitimate that we have decided to wait for the oecd to work out the matter, because anything else could lead to difficult trade conflicts. we have seen this in some examples in europe. but if there is no solution in sight, then we must seriously consider how we can find a solution for europe, because it is not possible that a certain type of value creation, which is increasing more and more due to digitalisation, has been almost tax-free, so to speak, and i believe that we have already seen good successes in the international financial market rules, also in terms of transparency of tax havens. unfortunately, the work on a digital tax here seems to be a little more difficult. one last thing: i think we have to make a very clear distinction between the euro crisis, or the financial crisis that we experienced as a result of the global financial crisis in individual european countries, and the current pandemic. it is undeniable that we are all, each member state, in international competition and that we cannot live up to our social model unless we are vulnerable. and if we all have excessively high debt levels, then we know how vulnerable we are to our model. it was therefore right that there were reforms in the member states, but in return, of course, there was a great deal of solidarity. i'm just thinking about building the esm and other things. the crisis we are facing is not a crisis of countries, but a virus that has come to us, that no one can do anything about, and that has affected countries in very different ways. when that happens, it requires very different tools and very different responses, and that is why i am campaigning for this building fund.
mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am campaigning for the fact that, in view of the bad economic developments in legislation in the council presidency, we cannot simply continue as before. we must give prospects and confidence to entrepreneurs facing the ruins of their existence, to workers who are in short-time work or unemployed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy. i'm advocating that we decide on repayment at the same time as we spend money. we cannot simply cut the general budget. how then are we to invest in research, to shape europe or to build a european external border guard? but i am advocating that we not only talk about money, but also develop political union, strengthen europe on issues such as foreign and security policy, innovation, climate change, external trade and all the other issues where we need a strong europe. all of this is on your agenda, and i wish you the best of luck.
mr president, madam chancellor, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the recovery of european societies and the european economy is a joint project of the eu. either it succeeds in europe as a whole or it does not succeed at all. the new building and resilience facility within the eu budget is a forward-looking step. the budget is the joint responsibility of the governments of the eu member states and the european parliament. i believe that more european cooperation cannot be bought with less european democracy. we have examples in eu budget law of the council and parliament jointly deciding how to spend money, such as the eu globalisation adjustment fund. this is about transparency, including to the public, so that it is clear how the money from the reconstruction package is being used. without parliamentary control, there can be no such transparency. i therefore urge you, madam chancellor, to work within the european council to ensure that parliament's right of participation is fully exercised.
contrary to what might have been expected, mr president, the european union has not slowed down a bit after brexit, but on the contrary, the gas pedal of the european single state is being pushed extra hard in many areas. all this, by the way, in accordance with good eu practice, without taking account of the atmosphere among the population. mrs merkel, i think you will take this presidency of the union as a lucky coincidence, as a turning point in your career, but let me tell you that there are many people among the citizens of the european member states who are critical of this federalist evolution of the union and who are therefore particularly worried now that you are going to add german and also your own power and strength to the federalist concert, and now that you are going to push the eu into debt right away. so, critical citizens see your entry as a double threat. i wanted to take this opportunity to draw your attention to this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, madam chancellor, we may be convinced europeans, even federalists, fully aware that it is on a european scale that we will face the immense global problems of this century, but we may also be very worried about the future of this european union. in 2020, there was brexit. but today two member states are taking advantage of the weaknesses of this european union, of its deadly capacity for self-paralysis, to set up quasi-authoritarian regimes, to discriminate against part of their population, to reduce powers, counter-powers, the opposition, the media, the judiciary. this can have a terrible contagion effect on neighbouring governments because it seems that rights and freedoms in this european union can be attacked without any consequences other than mere warnings and reports. madam chancellor, by virtue of your history - which you have mentioned - by virtue of your remarkable record of dignity and ethics, by virtue of the history of your country, by virtue of the growing influence of your country on the european scene, i ask you to make the german presidency an exemplary, courageous presidency, even more courageous than the finnish presidency on these questions of the rule of law. i ask you not to put economic interests and diplomatic considerations ahead of the rights and freedoms of all european citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. there are high expectations in europe for the german presidency, and the list of issues that need to be resolved is long. as regards the rescue fund and the multiannual financial framework, the financing of the priorities set should be reconciled with the need to keep the liabilities of the member states in moderation. in order to achieve a balanced overall picture, the loan-to-value ratio of the rescue fund still needs to be increased, repayment accelerated and the overall level reduced. however, the size of the rescue fund and the financial framework is not as important as how the money is spent. to create the conditions for future growth with the debt now being taken on, the investments must be made correctly. in the light of the proposals now on the table, additional funding must be directed towards new growth: education, research, defence, digitalisation, the transition to a carbon-neutral society and infrastructure investment. in the last mff proposals, for example, funding for the cef and the defence sector has fallen far too low, and germany needs to take the lead. in addition to the rescue fund and the financial framework, there are three acute challenges to be solved, and we must finally move forward. the first of these is the development of the rule of law, where the problems can be addressed when the financial framework is agreed. the second acute challenge concerns immigration policy, which must be addressed in a common way before a new migration crisis emerges. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i am confident that we, under german leadership, will be able to agree on solutions to all of these problems if we set the right priorities and look beyond the next few years in the negotiations.
in writing. as a german democrat mep, i fully support the priorities of the german eu presidency as presented to the ep plenary by chancellor angela merkel. 'together' is the keyword of the german presidency. and this gives me hope, because the extraordinary challenges we have to face in the next six months can only be overcome together and in solidarity. germany takes over the rotating eu presidency at a crucial moment, when the pandemic has had economic consequences of a severity not seen in the last 90 years. the eu must ensure equitable support to member states that are in the most difficult economic situations due to the pandemic. of the five priorities, cohesion is the most important, with the maintenance of cohesion and agricultural policy funding in the new european budget being essential. as a representative of the hungarian community in romania, i welcome the inclusion of fundamental rights among the priorities. the eu is built on values and national minorities are a value and a wealth. i hope that under the german presidency of the council, the legislature will support the objectives of the minority safe pack. by incorporating the provisions of the ippc into european law, members of national minority communities in the eu will benefit from effective equality of rights and the elimination of the discrimination to which they are still subject.
in writing. despite decades of forced integration and a worsening economic crisis, negotiations and discussions between member states on the recovery fund continue to hold sway in the european landscape. the german presidency is in this context, and instead of insisting on a centralised model, it should focus on revising the rules and treaties that have long oppressed the member states. the fear is that germany, eager to finalize the files it holds dear as soon as possible, will hasten the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic recovery plan. the premises of this presidency are not the best, and the approaches adopted towards russia, whose territory is the subject of the dispute with the usa over the nord stream 2 gas pipeline, also suggest this vision. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we need a leader who can lead europe out of the impasse, who can protect the health of citizens in this serious time of pandemic, who can not only represent his own interests, but also those of the states that have suffered the most from the consequences of the crisis.
the german presidency of the european union (eu) begins a trio of presidencies which also includes the portuguese and slovenian presidencies, which will play a decisive role in the recovery and transformation of the eu. to paraphrase the mobilizing line of the presidency, only together can we recover the union and meet the expectations of the citizens. i welcome the priorities set. they will make a difference if they are implemented quickly and effectively. health overcoming requires successful implementation of the public health strategy. economic and social recovery depends on the swift implementation of the solidarity fund. a strong and innovative europe needs the good implementation of programmes such as horizon europe, digital europe or the european space programme. a fair europe must be based on convergence and employment policies. a sustainable europe needs to deliver on the green deal. a security europe requires coordination of cybersecurity and defence policies. a strong europe in the world depends on a multilateral vision and the multiplication of partnerships between equals. if it pursues its environmental, digital and social ambitions without wavering in confidence-destroying economic conditionality, the german presidency has all the conditions to be a positive milestone in the future of the eu.
before we continue the debate, i would like to inform you that the first round of voting will begin at 4.30 p.m. we shall vote on the items on the agenda adopted today at the opening of the sitting. the voting will begin at 4.30 p.m. and will close at 5.45 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in the previous part-session. the reports on the appointment of helga berger as a member of the court of auditors and on the appointment of the executive director of the european banking authority will be voted on by secret ballot. members will be able to vote as usual, but the ballot paper they have to sign will not indicate the vote cast, only the fact that they voted. all other votes will be by roll-call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, voting statements of up to 400 words will be accepted. i call the first round of voting open. you have until 5:45 to vote. the results will be announced at 8 p.m.
the agenda shall include, for joint discussion, the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 19 june 2020 (2020/2669 ((rsp)) and the statements by the european council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 17 and 18 july 2020 (2020/2704 ((rsp)).
president of the european council. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to speak with you. covid—19 has shown that we can’t always control what happens to us, but we can control how we respond. let’s not forget that the pandemic is still with us. as we speak, it continues to destroy lives, businesses and jobs. one statistic alone paints the dramatic picture. compared to pre-covid growth forecasts, the eu is estimated to lose eur 1.5 trillion euros in economic output in 2020-2021 alone. this is indeed a grim prospect. as you know, on 23 april, the european council asked the commission to urgently come up with an ambitious recovery plan that was commensurate with the challenge we are facing. in june, leaders had a first discussion on the commission proposals. i will say more about this in a minute, but our initial discussion highlighted that some elements of the commission proposal were simply not acceptable for a number of member states. that’s why, after our meeting, i launched the process of bilateral talks with all the leaders. i then called a physical summit, the first since the crisis, on 17 and 18 july. there are three issues in particular that i would like to discuss with you. one is my traditional debrief to you on the leaders’ video conference in june. the second is to clarify the outcome of my bilateral meetings with leaders and share with you my intentions for the upcoming european council. and lastly, i wish to make a strong appeal for ambitious cooperation between the member states and with you, the european parliament. we need to work together if we want to make this work. our last video conference of the european council on 19 june was the first time eu leaders discussed together the commission’s proposals for the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the recovery fund. this summit was a necessary step to prepare for the decisions we need to take. it served as a bridge connecting the consultation phase to our current negotiation phase. we noted the areas where consensus is emerging. first, member states agreed on the need to address together the mff and the recovery fund. they agreed – second point – that an unprecedented crisis required an unprecedented response and – third point – they also agreed that we would focus on the regions and sectors most affected. but we also observed areas where our views still needed to converge. for instance, the idea of loans for grants is still difficult, even very difficult, to accept for some member states. similarly, some leaders showed reluctance to accept the allocation criteria suggested by the commission because they considered that there is no link in the current proposal with the covid—19 crisis and the consequences of the covid—19 crisis. last week, i concluded my first round of bilateral discussions. they have been intense and sometimes difficult, even very difficult, but always in a constructive spirit. this allowed me to identify the six building blocks of a possible future agreement on which i think we need to find the right political balance. first, the size of the mff. premièrement, la dimension du prochain budget européen. vous savez qu’il y a différentes opinions sur le niveau qui est acceptable. et le deuxième point, qui est lié au premier, est la question des corrections, les «rebates», dans la mesure où, pour certains états membres, ce point est essentiel. pour d’autres, ce point n’a plus lieu d’être. ce sera très certainement un des sujets avec lesquels nous devrons compter dans le cadre d’un possible accord global. le troisième point, c’est le niveau du «recovery fund» – vous connaissez la proposition émise par la commission –, tous les états membres ne partagent pas la conviction que le montant proposé doit être accepté. le quatrième point – je l’ai évoqué tout à l’heure –, c’est la question des emprunts et des subsides. le principe même des subsides pose des difficultés à un certain nombre d’états membres. et la question de la balance de l’équilibre entre les emprunts et les subsides est un autre sujet délicat sur lequel des décisions doivent être prises. le cinquième point – je voudrais m’y attarder quelques instants – est la question des critères d’allocation dans le cadre du «recovery fund». de nombreux états membres ont exprimé, au mois de juin, leurs réticences dans la mesure où ils considèrent que la proposition de la commission, qui se fonde sur des données d’avant le départ de la crise (ces données étant le niveau de chômage, le critère du pib inversé et le critère de la population), n’est pas suffisamment dynamique, adéquate, pour prendre en compte ce que sera la situation réelle en termes d’impact économique, et donc social, pour les régions et donc les pays et les secteurs qui sont plus affectés. c’est la raison pour laquelle nous testons l’idée d’amener une démarche un peu plus dynamique dans le cas des critères d’allocation en question. enfin, le sixième point, qui est un point très essentiel, c’est la question du lien entre ce «recovery fund», les réformes qui doivent être mises en oeuvre dans les différents états membres et la manière d’organiser la gouvernance, le rôle des différentes institutions. il y a très certainement là un débat qui concerne très directement aussi le parlement européen et son rôle. toujours en termes de conditions ou de liens avec le «recovery fund» et avec la question du cfp plus particulièrement, la question de l’état de droit est également une question qui doit faire l’objet de délibérations. la question du lien avec l’ambition climatique est aussi extrêmement importante. vous vous souviendrez que nous avions, il y a quelques mois, proposé avant le début de la crise qu’une partie significative du cfp soit directement liée à notre ambition climatique. et je vous rappelle qu’au mois de décembre, nous avons fixé cette ambition très forte pour l’union européenne d’atteindre la neutralité climat en 2050. there are also other issues at stake which i know are crucial to you, the european parliament. first, own resources and i’m aware that these are key for your agreement. we worked a lot on plastic waste and on the emissions trading scheme (ets). there is some reluctance on that, but we have also looked at other possible resources that have gathered some support, like digital taxation and financial taxation. flexibility in the mff for cohesion and agriculture is also an important topic for some member states and there are two other issues that we need to tackle in order to try to reach an agreement. the first is the question of the front—loading in the recovery fund and the question of the commitments and payments, the timing we need for both, and the question of the repayments. when do we start the repayments? you know that the commission proposed to start the repayments not in the upcoming mff, but in the next one. maybe it would be useful to propose to start the repayments earlier. regarding the next steps, as you probably know, i have announced that i intend to publish a negotiating box by the end of this week. together with the german presidency, we will discuss this further in coreper, the meetings with all the ambassadors, and these processes allow us to prepare thoroughly for our july european council summit. i can assure you i am doing all i can to secure an agreement. we need to find a workable solution quickly. mon appréciation, mon impression, après ce tour de consultations extrêmement intense depuis les derniers jours et les deux ou trois dernières semaines, depuis le dernier conseil, est le suivant: nous ne sommes pas encore au bout de la négociation, énormément de travail reste nécessaire et ma conviction est que nous pourrons progresser à la condition que les états membres soient déterminés à coopérer davantage les uns avec les autres. ma conviction est également qu’il sera indispensable, parce que la crise est sans précédent, que la coopération entre les institutions démocratiques européennes soit également sans précédent et à la hauteur de l’enjeu auquel nous sommes confrontés. soyez convaincus que j’entends bien cet appel du parlement européen pour être pleinement mobilisé, de prendre pleinement sa responsabilité dans le cadre des décisions qui devront être prises. vous pourrez compter sur moi en plein partenariat avec la présidence rotative pour veiller à ce que, du mieux possible, nous puissions progresser ensemble. enfin, une conviction de bon sens que je dois partager avec vous: nous n’y arriverons que si chacun accepte de faire un pas vers l’autre. si chacun, état membre ou institution, reste figé, bloqué, immobilisé par son problème de départ, il n’y aura pas de solution et nous ne serons pas à la hauteur de l’enjeu pour ce projet européen qui nous rassemble. la seule option est de faire un pas les uns vers les autres afin d’être en mesure, non seulement de porter cet intérêt européen avec ambition, mais aussi avec la conviction réaliste qu’il faut prendre en considération le point de vue de l’autre, pour être capable de prendre des décisions ensemble. c’est cet appel que je veux adresser à chacun d’entre vous, aujourd’hui. pour conclure, plus que jamais, ce débat est très fondamental, parce que les montants en jeu sont sans précédent dans l’histoire de l’union européenne, en même temps un budget européen pour les sept prochaines années et un recovery fund, les montants discutés sont effectivement totalement gigantesques. ma conviction, c’est que nous devons être habités par trois objectifs, que nous ne pouvons pas perdre de vue, que nous devons tenter d’atteindre en parallèle. le premier, c’est l’objectif de poursuivre ce qui a nourri ce projet européen depuis le départ: la convergence, faire en sorte que nous puissions continuer à travailler, à œuvrer sans relâche pour la convergence européenne qui est aussi et qui sera la force de ce projet européen. travailler aussi – l’histoire récente l’a montré – pour la résilience, la capacité, demain, d'être plus forts, de tirer les leçons de cette crise, de tirer les enseignements et faire en sorte que nous ayons la capacité de réagir mieux, de façon plus adéquate et plus forte. et enfin, le troisième objectif que nous devons, je pense, garder constamment dans notre viseur politique: la transformation du projet européen sur base de l’agenda numérique, sur base de cette nécessité de prendre en compte le climat comme une occasion de rendre l'union européenne plus forte, plus solide, toute entière tournée vers un avenir que nous devons bâtir de manière confiante, de manière optimisée. je mesure bien que l’enjeu est difficile, je mesure bien que l’enjeu est important. soyez convaincus, monsieur le président, chers collègues, que je suis très déterminé, non seulement à faire avancer le débat au sein du conseil européen, mais très rapidement, dès lors qu’il aura pu avancer et franchir une étape par une décision prise, je compte bien, être tout entier tourné vers le dialogue positif, constructif avec les institutions et singulièrement avec le parlement européen.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, as we discussed just a moment ago, it’s quite clear that our union is undergoing a great crisis – one that has engulfed not only europe, but the whole world. the covid—19 pandemic has had a horrific human and economic cost. i would say that it also has changed us. therefore, i am sure that you would agree with me that there is no going back to the way things used to be. therefore, we must now look to the future. if we act decisively we can find opportunity in this disaster. but for that we need the right tools for the job. as you know, i often say that this chamber is the heartbeat of european democracy, a place where policy is debated and shaped, but no matter how much we talk about the political priorities, we must have the money to implement them. ahead of the european council next week, i would like to focus on two points with you, both of which hold great significance for our future. first, the state of play with regard to the next generation eu recovery plan and the revamped multiannual financial framework proposals. i really would like to thank the president of the european council for his very active approach for the very dynamic bilaterals he had with the heads of state and governments of the european union and for the close cooperation with the commission. all this is needed, because this is a very ambitious package that responds directly and forcefully to the needs of our union. the future mff reinforced by the next generation eu crisis instrument will bring the total financial firepower of the eu budget to almost eur two trillion in today’s money – that’s a very impressive, but at the same time a very necessary figure. it is a necessary response to what is a crisis without precedence in the history of the european union. it is the plan designed not only to see us through the first years of recovery, but also to ensure our financial programmes can deliver strong support for our priorities until 2027 and beyond. i would like first to stress that the european parliament plays, and will continue to play, a vitally important role in this process. later today, president von der leyen, together with president michel and chancellor merkel, with president sassoli, will meet under article 324 where we will start, through – and i believe thanks to – our leaders, the first convergence of views creating an atmosphere conducive to the compromise which will be needed at the leaders’ summit on 17 and 18 july to which president michel just referred. the meeting will follow on from the encouraging discussions the leaders had during the recent video conference. overall, we in the commission feel that there is a positive dynamic in support of the proposals which i have just described. in particular, there is an agreement that this unprecedented crisis required an exceptional response. there is an agreement that this response should be financed through commission borrowing and there is also agreement on the fact that own resources really need to be increased. in addition, we feel there is agreement that our efforts should be targeted towards europe’s most affected regions, fostering cohesion and convergence and that this crisis and the response which we are debating right now will create a unique opportunity to reform our economies and make them greener, more digital and more resilient. the proposed package reflects much of what was expressed by parliament in the resolution of 15 may. in particular, i would like to thank this house for its continued support for the new own resources. like you, we are convinced that this is the right approach. new own resources will support our shared objectives. they will help us repay what we borrow for next generation eu without compromising the funding of our future programmes. while we are taking a big step forward in the coming weeks by agreeing on the proposals already on the table, we can take a giant leap when we set out new proposals next year. we will soon put forward a roadmap for these extra resources, on how to achieve these new own resources. in the meantime, i count on you to help relay the message, also at home to your governments, to your constituencies and to the national parliaments, as to how much we need their support, because time is of the essence, leadership is needed more than any time before, and we have only a few weeks left. we all know that it’s absolutely crucial for our response to the crisis to reach agreement before the summer break if we want to make sure that before the end of the year we will also complete the process of national ratifications needed for the own resources decision. not only are we unable to start borrowing without this decision, but if the national parliaments endorse the debate, the results and these new instruments, i believe that it would also ensure the democratic legitimacy of these innovative proposals on an unprecedented wide scale. to continue, i also would like to underline the fact that this would also help us to create the new tools not only for sustainable economic recovery, but also for clear demonstrations that our democratic rules will always prevail even in times of crisis. so an extremely constructive approach by all institutions is required and therefore i think that we need to listen to each other and factor in our different views at all stages of the process. certainly, the involvement of this parliament in all aspects is fundamental. every euro will be spent through programmes co-designed and co-decided by this parliament. you will play a strong scrutiny role through the budget discharge and because of legal constraints we are relying on an extraordinary system to mobilise the extra recovery funding, but this should in no way prevent either this parliament or the council from playing their roles to the full. special arrangements will be put in place to ensure that this is the case. we are ready to work with you and the council on the institutional declaration, to put this on a formal footing and to ensure that cooperation among our institutions is as fast as it can be. as i said already, time is short but i’m confident that with the right mix of ambition, realism and leadership we can deliver for the citizens of the european union. the commission will need your help, and we will need to be quick in all phases of negotiations. this includes agreement on our bridging proposal to jump start the recovery plan under the current mff as well. the sooner we can launch react-eu and the solvency support instrument, the better. my second point today concerns brexit. as you know, my colleague michel barnier is today in london where another round of negotiations is taking place. i think it’s very important because we are now less than six months away from the end of the transition period. together with the united kingdom, we recently took stock of the ongoing negotiations where we jointly stressed our willingness to undertake all possible efforts to come to an agreement, seeking solutions that will allow us to sign a one-of-a-kind partnership. since then, as you know, not much progress has been made. yet the simple truth is that the negotiations will in a few months one way or another. so if we are to reach an agreement, we will have to resolve a number of serious divergences on fundamental issues. these relate to the robust guarantees for a level playing field, a balanced agreement on fisheries, and an effective governance framework. you of course know these points very well, and you know that they are important for us because of the principles of fair competition, the protection of our citizens – principles which are at the very heart of our union. we will do everything possible to reach an agreement but here, too, time is very short and no one can say with certainty where the negotiations will lead us by the end of the year. even if we do reach a deal, many things will still change in our relationship with the united kingdom – for citizens, for businesses, for administration. we therefore need to plan for these changes and we will continue to assist the national authorities and other stakeholders in their preparations. alongside the negotiations, as president von der leyen emphasised to the leaders, we must continue our work to ensure proper implementation of the withdrawal agreement, which is a precondition for the establishment and maintaining of trust. as a co—chair of the eu—uk joint committee, i can add that we are also moving into a higher gear on this front and will remain very attentive on all its dimensions. european unity continues to be our main asset, and the european parliament is of course also in this regard playing an important role in all of its work. i am deeply grateful for your unwavering support as laid out in the report adopted by this parliament on 18 june. thank you very much for your attention and for all the support that will be needed in the coming days and weeks.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome president michel to the european parliament. we are listening to you. we are worried, and we do not agree with you. we are worried because you are not informing and not involving parliament in talks on the budget as you should, because this house is a budgetary authority. and we cannot agree with you because you are going to propose a smaller budget for a european union that has to do more, and simply we cannot do more with a smaller budget. the eu budget is not the same as magic beans, and does not become bigger just when the members of the european council look at it. i have to be clear: the european parliament can only give its consent on the multiannual financial framework (mff) if the mff will finance properly what we have jointly agreed on. what are our demands? firstly, that we finance properly the traditional priorities of the european union – agriculture and cohesion. secondly, that we keep our promises and finance, according to our promises, the new priorities – digitalisation, greening, protecting the environment, research, development, innovation, external borders, migration. we cannot solve the coronavirus crisis by creating problems in other areas through under-financing. please convey to the european council members the following message: we cannot hide a small mff behind the recovery package. on the recovery package, money should be well spent. firstly, it should be spent on modernising europe, it should be spent on projects with european added value. secondly, the more money we spend, the better the control needs to be. thirdly, we need to provide a repayment plan. every citizen, every enterprise, when they take a loan, needs to provide a repayment plan. they need to say when and how they will pay it back. as the european union, we should do the same. own resources: we should introduce the plastic tax now, pay the interest rates and start repayment before 2027 and have a binding plan, a binding calendar on the other own resources. only if these demands of parliament are met will we be able to give our consent in the end. and whatever deal, whatever compromise you reach in the council, we are ready to talk to you, to negotiate beforehand, because the deal of the council will not be the final deal; the views of parliament will need to be taken into account.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the pandemic has claimed the lives of more than 177 000 of our fellow europeans, mostly elderly people without whose sacrifice the european project we are still building today would not be understood; also of many women who, from the health and social services sector, have sacrificed their lives to protect us, not forgetting the victims of gender-based violence as a result of confinement. this human catastrophe has in turn led to a social tragedy, because the virus has confined the hopes and the future of millions of young europeans. this generation, which was in its 20s in 2008 and now in its 30s, is facing its second economic crisis in just 12 years. many generations have been shaped by traumatic events - events so often marked by fear and uncertainty - events that change the way people live and force them to take risks. and in this journey of life, time also conditions life. after several months of pandemic, july is to be the month for the agreement on the recovery fund and the budget of the european union. the present and future generations must feel that the european union is an area of economic security in their lives. and thanks to the power of parliament in this negotiation, i am convinced that we will be able to do so. the social democrats will not accept less than the 500 billion euro in subsidies envisaged by the commission. nor will we accept any macroeconomic conditionality, because we already know what austerity means: weaker conditions for workers and deep cuts in social spending. we cannot allow a return to austerity policies. and, of course, in the distribution of aid, our support will depend on strict adherence to the rule of law and the proper use of funds. young people are the group least affected by the virus, but they are much more exposed to the economic consequences, so the pandemic cannot be an excuse for not addressing inequality through the european social pillar, with the implementation of the child guarantee and the european unemployment insurance. because no one in a society can feel safe without a job. our commitment and solidarity with future generations also requires transforming our economy to address the challenges of climate change and the digital revolution. and to finance the recovery fund and the green and digital transition, without strangling the public accounts of the member states, we need to address the debate and the proposal on own resources. that is why this debate is so crucial for us. if the most disadvantaged classes rescued the financial sector in the last crisis, it is now up to the markets and multinationals to contribute to a fair recovery. the breakdown of the social pact leads to radicalisation, populism and clashes between generations. the future of a generation and the survival of the european project will depend on the success of this plan. mr michel, i ask you - and i know you will - to look the prime ministers in the eye during the negotiations in the coming days and ask them the following question: if we cannot guarantee the citizens that their lives will be better, then why are we here? this parliament is really clear on this and we are going to work towards it. and i am convinced that, together, we will be able to defend a strong, fair and solidary project.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr president of the european council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this recovery plan is unprecedented and must be the advent of a real europe. the final agreement that emerges from this house will have to change the daily lives of europeans, from brest to athens, from sofia to helsinki. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest countries in the world. mr president, our political family will be vigilant on two points in particular. two points that will determine whether or not we support this interstate agreement. the first condition is new own resources, plural, to repay the loan. let's get this straight. we will not be satisfied with the plastic contribution alone. i recognise that reaching a common position on this is not an easy task. nor is it in this house. but we did. we have overcome our divisions, sometimes calibrated our ambitions, to move forward. today, the urgency of taking out this large loan without it weighing on future generations must guide the agreement between states. let's put the burden on the gafa, the multinationals who practice tax optimization, the big polluters. second condition: an effective and de facto enforceable mechanism for the protection of the rule of law. it is a value enshrined in our treaties. it is no less important than the objective of economic convergence. clearly, we no longer want the autocrats orbán, kaczynski and their friends to use the taxes of european citizens to establish their autocratic grip in their own countries, in our europe. mr president, i wish you all the best. our political family, in the heart of a parliament united in its priorities, expects an agreement from this summit. in the meantime, we will be ready to negotiate to ensure a green and prosperous future for the next generation of europeans. a democratic future free of all debt, except that of recognition.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the council discussed the european recovery plan on 19 june and will discuss it again on 17 and 18 july. we are on our way to a total of 750 billion euro, of which 500 billion in grants and 250 billion in loans. i am against this project for three reasons. firstly, this plan will lead to a european pooling of debt of €500 billion, which will be a further step towards the creation of a european federal state, which my group does not want. secondly, it would be naive to believe that this money will be distributed without consideration. the union will impose drastic conditions to achieve this, including lower pensions and health expenditure. finally, germany and france will pay. germany can afford this, but not france, whose debt is already 120% of its gross domestic product. president macron, who is one of the instigators of this recovery plan, seems to have forgotten that the first duty of a head of state is to look after the future of his own people.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the european council, i must confess that i am sympathetic to your situation because if we here in parliament have to find a majority, you have to find unanimity. and there's a slight difference between the two, of course, since the lesser-known may be the one who sets the dancing pace. so i am very sympathetic to the difficulty of your situation. so i wonder, what could you possibly say to them? because, in the end, there are some who are stubborn. so what could you possibly tell them? you could say to them, yes, you're afraid of the amount, but frankly what are we talking about? we are talking about 1.5 points of gdp over three years, against a recession that this year will be perhaps 9 or 10 per cent of gdp. in comparison with the efforts made, for example, in the united states, you speak of 'enormous amounts' but in reality they are not so enormous. so let's put this in perspective. and i'm sure you're already making that argument. the second objection we can make to you, and i am sensitive to it, is this: are we not going to end up in debt and actually spend this money on lost funds? i mean, won't all of this go to waste to useless uses, to taxation, what do i know? and that is where the question of conditionality comes in. i know it's a theme that's trapped but i think it's very important. and i think that the conditions that are necessary in our world today are: conditions for democracy and the rule of law and conditions for useful investments. and what could be more useful today than to invest, albeit in countries in difficulty, in tools that will improve the economy of the entire continent? the conditions must be found in investing in the ecological and solidarity-based transition and in investing in the digital transition. if we really think that by imposing austerity, as we did ten years ago, we will improve our common lot, then goodbye! we've tested it for you, we've seen the results, i think it's completely off the charts. the last point i think we need to make with regard to the recalcitrant is this: what kind of mouth will they have - pass me the phrase - if the result of not deciding in favour of a european plan is the break-up of the euro area? i would like to know where the prosperity of the scandinavians, the prosperity of the austrians, the prosperity of the dutch will be when monetary union has gone through its ups and downs. and in its wake, perhaps, european integration. it is the fact that our prosperity, individual and national - and here i totally disagree with mr lebreton - depends on the prosperity of the whole. and so i agree that there is no question of investing at a loss, but it would be a total historical mistake to risk the end of monetary union and therefore the end of the european union for reasons which - excuse the expression - are vulgarly electoral.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. the worst economic crisis in 100 years. it is now up to the governments - and of course the european institutions - to provide the necessary security for citizens and businesses, as citizens and businesses are threatened with being swept headlong into a tsunami of uncertainty. the recovery fund proposed certainly contains levers that can help, but i think we should look at it in a dynamic perspective. we don't know where this is going to lead. there could be new lockdowns. the situation we are experiencing today certainly has consequences that we do not yet know or that we cannot yet accurately estimate. so the dynamics of this crisis are very important. we have to continually assess and adjust the exact impact over the longer term, or adjust and assess. the same applies to the consequences of brexit. in other words, what is needed now is to increase the resilience, the resilience, the resilience of our society and our economy. in order to guide citizens and businesses through the turbulence we are experiencing, i would urge that, in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual budget, the renewal of the economy, the innovative programmes, be given absolute priority and priority. as regards the negotiations on the multiannual budget, it is, i think, very clear that parliament has clearly stated its objectives and wishes a long time ago, and also recently. there's never been the slightest discussion about that. there is a great deal of unanimity in parliament on this. i therefore call on all concerned, and especially the council and the commission, to do everything possible to avoid an interinstitutional deadlock. the possibility of that is real, but we must avoid it at all costs. i began by pointing out the importance of combating uncertainty. if we were to reach that interinstitutional deadlock, we would only be faced with a very great deal of uncertainty and the european institutions would - which can never be the intention - contribute to a lack of enthusiasm for economic and social recovery.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as we debate today, the european council is secretly negotiating what you misleadingly call the european recovery plan. but how dare you speak of a recovery plan behind that grand name when the funds will have to be repaid, at least in part, by the peoples of europe? because you must not be fooled! as long as there are not enough own resources, the debate on the distribution between loans and grants is at least partly theoretical, because it is, in the end, the european states that will have to repay, and therefore the european peoples who will have to pay the bill. how dare you talk about a recovery plan when it is actually a meagre 0.5% boost to european gdp when it will fall by at least 8% by 2020 alone? how dare you talk about a stimulus plan when only a quarter of the funds will be available by 2023? the member states need money now, right now. but european aid will arrive after the battle. at the same time, the european budget will probably be reduced, and this is the danger that is being heard. so, simple trick of passing, giving with one hand and taking back with the other. how dare you talk about a recovery plan without any democratic debate to define its direction? who can guarantee here in this house that parliament will have a say in ensuring that the funds are not allocated without a social and ecological counterpart? no one did. who can guarantee that this plan will avoid the cascade of social plans that has already begun across europe with thousands of redundancies in companies such as nokia, airbus, renault or sanofi, some of which, incidentally, took advantage of the crisis to make profits, like sanofi. no one did. the only certainty we have at this stage is that the commission will come out of this strengthened to impose austerity on the member states. i also note that mrs von der leyen is becoming increasingly clear, as president of the european commission, on the return through the back door of the european semester and thus of budgetary control and austerity imposed on the member states. this stimulus plan, as you will have noticed, is therefore not very well named. if there is a revival, it is of your liberal ideology, not of the economy. it looks, in the end, more like a vast communication plan aimed at swallowing the pill of new liberal reforms. and yet, another way was possible. first, by allowing member states to respond quickly to the crisis through direct loans from the european central bank and the partial cancellation of their debt. then, by implementing a vast ecological reconstruction plan, financed by taxation of multinational corporations, polluters and billionaires. this is what we need today: a plan and an implementation, not a slogan, a communication operation or a staging as is the case at present with the famous franco-german couple. so act, act before it's too late for the people and for the planet!
president of the european council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various speeches and messages you have addressed to me. i admit that i do not understand mr mureşan's remarks on methodology, because i have the impression that the cooperation between the european council, the commission and parliament is unprecedented and we will continue to work to ensure that, not only formally, as is the case today, in the plenary, we will continue to work to ensure that there is always this close dialogue. and i believe, i repeat, that we will all have to demonstrate a capacity for creativity, innovation, to go towards each other and towards each other. it is not by repeating in an almost threatening way, hour after hour, day after day, that progress will be made, but by rolling up our sleeves, with the intellectual will to conclude an agreement, that we can actually reach an agreement which must meet, in my view, a very specific objective: a robust europe, a solid europe. the facts have shown that this is what we need. and those who are under the illusion that national withdrawal and scrapping are the solution are mistaken. we need strong, robust member states that are up to the challenge and we need a european union that can carry this ambition forward with a clear vision of the levers at our disposal. and we have a clear vision of the levers we have, we know that the climate agenda, we know that the digital agenda must be priorities. the coincidence, the fact that we are now deciding on the next european budget for the next seven years, should lead us to learn from the lessons, in the budget, and to take into account the consequences of covid in the next european budget, in parallel with the launch of a very exceptional fund that should be, i think, a moment of transformation for the european project. i think mrs hayer is right: the question of own resources is a very important one which can be a turning point in the history of the european project. perhaps that is why this debate is so difficult from a political point of view, because there are indeed different opinions on how to approach this debate on own resources. and i can see that in the various political families represented in the european council, as in this european parliament, there are indeed divergent opinions. i thank mr lamberts who, with great realism and common sense, rightly says that majority voting is not the same as unanimity. in the democratic context, there are institutions for which the majority allows the step forward and then afterwards to say that parliament is united. i heard the first round table, i did not hear exactly the same messages expressed a few moments ago. but there is indeed a majority in parliament which has a common position and that is very good, that is a very strong encouragement which i take into consideration. in the council we have to work to try to achieve unanimity, which is not easy, and to try to be ambitious is essential to me, and i am fully committed to this. finally, the rule of law and values. i think, as many have said, many have said, that we must also consider that governance, the rule of law, fundamental values, are the backbone of this european project and, in this sense, we must take into account this political moment to move this ambition in the right direction as well. and then i conclude by telling you that, from my point of view - and this is what this crisis also reveals - prosperity is not measured only by an indicator which would be quantitative growth. for decades we have considered that progress is measured by a parameter, by a criterion which is the percentage of gdp. well, this one element, it's interesting, it's not enough. this does not reflect the actual impression that citizens in a country or within the european union have that their lives are better than they were a year or a few years ago. i think that in this project of transformation, which i believe we must implement, we must perhaps also ask ourselves how. when we have this conviction of economic reform, of social reform, how can we have this democratic debate which tends to set the objectives we want as a society at european level? the question of the quality of education, the question of the environment, the question of reducing inequalities, access to quality health care without discrimination are certainly parameters that we must take into account when measuring the progress that is possible thanks to this european project that must unite and not divide.
mr. chairman, i will speak in my native bulgarian. thirty, actually sixty seconds is not enough for a real speech, but we bulgarians like to say that we need more deeds and less stories. i wish the german presidency and the council every success. it comes at a difficult time for the european union, in the midst of the covid crisis, and it has the difficult destiny of dealing with another issue that not only will not solve the covid crisis, but may bring us another crisis. the presidency's priorities are twofold: saving people's lives and health; safeguarding the economy and jobs. economy and jobs. i don't know about health, but it's like the covid crisis has affected the mind of the european union. the mobility package is just that. to all the colleagues who will be voting for this package: colleagues, do you know what you will be voting for? did you read all the way through what was left inside? you claim to protect the rights of drivers. well, i'm fighting for their basic right to have a job now, and a salary. working conditions are not solved by meaningless legislation and rules. and the climate conditions are not improved by empty trucks, thousands of empty trucks, going around europe. it would be a shame for parliament to adopt this package in this form, when the european commission has also abandoned it said it would reconsider it if the return of the truck and the driver remained. finally, to distinguish between good and evil, we must be able to distinguish between them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council next week will have a crucial task: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let me be clear: the commission proposal is the starting point for parliament, not the end point. if anyone in the council thinks that he can get the european parliament to accept anything, he is mistaken. parliament is certainly prepared to reject any agreement that is worse than the proposals on the table today because, as members of the european parliament, we know that courage is needed today. we are asked this by the thousands of citizens who have suffered in recent months from the pandemic. only by embarking on a new phase of european integration can we emerge from the crisis stronger and more united. we need ambition, and therefore we need new resources of our own, such as a tax on the giants of the internet and on speculative financial transactions, to demand more from those who have so far contributed too little in comparison with our companies and our workers. the council therefore has a huge historical and political responsibility and must live up to it. the european parliament has a clear position and knows where to stand: by the citizens. now it's up to the council to prove the same.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. after a few months of forced suspension, one is reminded even more how impotent the european union really is in many areas and how pointless it really is in some areas. if we look at this action at the european level, at the heart of the crisis, from a distance, we inevitably come to the conclusion that, in fact, where national action is still possible, much more can be done to deal with the crisis than is the case here. in general, the view is that the european union is often not the problem solver but rather the accelerator, because the idea of internationalisation and globalisation is the one responsible for many problems. in this context, to abuse the multiannual financial framework in such a way that the corona crisis now funnels even more money and even more power and even more competence to brussels is certainly the wrong way to go. i can only say, as a representative of a net contributor, austria, that no more pennies to brussels, powers back to the nation states! this is the way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decisive blow for europe is to be delivered: the next council. we are living in a time when the economic crisis and social, labour and fiscal inequalities between the member states are eroding the confidence of european citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. you are kicking him to the curb by continuing to propose austerity instruments such as the esm, the damage of which in greece has been acknowledged by the imf and former president juncker. the designated inspector is german: commission president von der leyen is joined today by chancellor merkel. pele said that rigor is a mean way to score. it could be... it is certainly the wrong way to govern this europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first sentence on the budget: it is not possible to reduce the budget as is currently being discussed by the member states in the council. mr mureşan pointed out that this weakens the european union in the long term and also weakens the rights of parliament to participate. we cannot accept that. secondly, on the construction plan: i think we need an ambitious construction plan for two reasons: millions of workers are unemployed, millions of workers are now in short-time work. i think that if we hesitate now, the first companies and factories will go bankrupt and jobs will be lost before any help from europe arrives. that cannot be the point, and that is why a quick agreement is what we need. thirdly, if we are thrifty now, it will end up costing us twice, maybe even three times as much. we must now make sure that we invest in the right areas for the future, including, above all, in the skills of our citizens, in the development of infrastructure and the like, and not just leave our children in debt - that is, agree on a repayment plan now and start repaying before the end of this financial period. that is a necessary condition for my agreement.
madam president, our project of european integration is at a decisive juncture which requires a historic response. the union presidency, together with the german presidency and its government, with a strong socialist imprint, must act with courage at the next summit so that all europeans and all europeans can emerge from this crisis without leaving anyone behind, with an ambitious recovery plan that will come into force as soon as possible. the time has also come to introduce the new own resources of the union, which will make it possible to return this money to the citizens, businesses and regions that need it most. and finally, it is also time to adopt a courageous immigration pact, with legal immigration channels and mechanisms, which are the best instrument to fight illegal immigration. chancellor merkel has already shown courage by welcoming thousands of migrants in 2015. now, with president von der leyen, two german women can make history by making the plan and the pact a reality, following the europeanist path of willy brandt and helmut kohl, among others.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we fail to understand the historic moment we are living through? how can we fail to see that, in the face of the combined ecological, social and democratic crises, our institutions must imperatively protect europeans, their jobs and our economies, without turning away from the objective of safeguarding the climate? europe and its long-awaited financial means are stuck in the corridors of the european council and in bargaining between member states. the european union is powerless to act because, lacking its own resources, it remains a prisoner of national egoism. to have resources of one's own means to have the capacity, not only financial but above all political, to act. it is therefore to preserve the very reasons for our existence as a political entity and as a historical actor. if we persist in our impotence, it will pave the way for our demise, to the great delight of all populist enemies of the european idea. it is also to the great happiness of financial interests that speculate on our weakness and to the great misery of the peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all obviously in favour of the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. what have we done when we have not challenged the system of trustees and nominees, which allows for considerable financial transactions without identifying the final recipient? what have we done until we have quickly regulated electronic money, which allows both unidentified transfers and, i would also say, absolutely enormous unjustified enrichment? on the financing of terrorism, i would like to quote the recent words of the nigerian minister of defence, mr issoufou katambe, at the dakar peace summit: 'do not be under any illusions, we know the states that finance terrorism'. some of these states are good customers of the european union countries, some of these states are allies and even partners of nato. it probably even happened in some countries of the european union, here or there, i personally think in the balkans or syria, to have equipped, trained, armed groups that turned out to be terrorist groups. let us not be fooled, financial control is important, it is police and military control that will make the difference on the ground.
in writing. since 2018, pakistan has been listed by the financial action task force (fatf), an intergovernmental body established in 1989 to develop standards and promote the effective implementation of legislative, regulatory and operational measures in the fight against money laundering and the financing of international terrorism. among the countries under surveillance is pakistan, which has for years received a considerable contribution from the european union in the form of development aid. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the council decision of 28 june 2014 on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part (oj l 295, 30.10.2014, p. for this reason, on 30 june the fatf renewed pakistan's inclusion in the list of countries under enhanced surveillance. in this context, it is hardly surprising that pakistani prime minister iran khan, speaking before parliament, described the historic leader of al-qaeda, bin laden, as a martyr. on the other hand, we will be struck more by the shocking lack of common sense and foresight of the european institutions and by their ideological blindness in the face of the islamist threat!
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a health crisis which is a tragedy in terms of loss of human life, but which is also a real awakening. so let's seize this unique opportunity to learn together and across party lines. the opportunity to prepare, in conjunction with the who, our european health response mechanism, which has already been set up, thanks to you, madam commissioner, dear stella. opportunity - you said - to strengthen the competences of the european health agencies. we need them to be responsive and operational. opportunity to implement prevention, in particular prevention through education on basic hygiene measures and compliance with the green pact ambitions on nutrition, pollution, global warming. the opportunity to enable member states to optimise their health infrastructures, while respecting specific criteria so that the european union does not become a mere distributor of banknotes. opportunity to exchange medical practices and data within european reference networks. we want to see them strengthened. an opportunity to restore our independence for the production of health products, vaccine research and equitable access to the best treatment for all. an opportunity to show solidarity with health inequalities and, in particular, to take account of the most affected populations, including the most affected regions of europe, and the most fragile third countries. finally, i would suggest that we should take a look at the health impacts of all our european policies. this is how we will meet the expectations of our citizens and involve them in our common project of a protective and concrete europe of health.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to mark this day with my words the memorable history of the peoples of europe. i have proposed to the president of the european parliament a resolution which seeks to reconcile the people of europe on our common history, particularly with regard to the overseas countries. the legacy of african and indian descendants of slaves, as well as all forms of slavery past and present, must not be forgotten. the memory of the overseas countries which i represent here in the european parliament is at stake. fighting against slavery in the past based on human trafficking, as well as fighting against modern slavery by denouncing an ultra-liberal economic model that tends to general poverty. as martin luther king said, an injustice committed somewhere is a threat to justice throughout the world. let us honour the memory of our slaves and reconcile to build a future without discrimination and to return to free and equal european peoples. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr high representative, how long are we going to tolerate this situation? european civilization has, as we know, an enemy at its door. it is no longer skirmishes that caliph erdogan is sending us but military aggression. what is erdogan's diet? it is a double bet: the union of all muslims under the banner of political islamism and the preeminence of turkey in the mediterranean. the austrians, the hungarians, the serbs, the greeks, the cypriots, the english, the french and the russians and so many other european nations have been constantly facing this double project since the fall of constantinople. today, the european union is preventing them from pursuing this historic vocation. but we turn a blind eye when albania and kosovo become turkish protectorates on our continent. and worse, we are trying to speed up the accession process. in libya, we are making the same mistakes we made in syria, in looking kindly on these turkish-paid militias. in fact, when we witnessed a few days ago an incident which resembled an act of war between france and turkey, at naval level, europe remained almost unresponsive and unsolidarist. mr. high representative, how long are we going to tolerate this aggression? how long are we going to continue this illusory process of turkey joining europe, which shares none of our values, none of our projects? i think that today, in this situation, europe must show firmness. i shall simply end with a wish: if we want to save peace, if we want to save our borders today and ensure that they are not controlled in any way by turkey, i ask you to be firm. i hope that your name will not go down in history along with those of daladier or chamberlain, that is to say those who showed weakness by provoking... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, mr high representative, you said a few days ago that the situation between turkey and the european union was, and i quote, far from ideal. like you, i know the charms of diplomatic language, but sometimes you have to call a spade a spade. for too long the turkish regime has turned its back on our values, especially human rights. turkey is now too often acting against our interests. by its presence in syria, it weakens the coalition's fight against daesh. in the mediterranean, it is carrying out illegal drilling, flouting international law and undermining the sovereignty of greece and cyprus. in libya, it is sending syrian mercenaries, some of whom are jihadists, violating the commitments it made at the berlin conference and increasing the risk of partitioning the country. on 10 june, a turkish warship attacked a french ship operating as part of a nato mission, of which turkey is a member, to enforce the arms embargo in libya. this hostile behaviour on the part of an ally is of particular gravity and cannot go unchallenged. it is not diplomatic language that should be used today vis-à-vis ankara, mr high representative, what we expect from you is the language of firmness.
mr president, mr high representative, in syria today, and in libya, and for a long time in greece and cyprus, in this house and in europe in general, we have often thought that turkey's attitude is a distant problem, a mediterranean problem. on the contrary, it concerns us all: turkish interference raises a major geopolitical issue, which puts our european sovereignty at risk. in the face of violations of international law and the law of the sea, europe watches rather than acts. we are facing the risk of a syrianization of the libyan conflict and a humanitarian disaster. faced with the risk of new waves of migration, faced with the threat of terrorism, europe will also be powerless and divided. once again, president erdogan is confronting us with our inertia, at the mercy of his blackmail. europe cannot allow turkey to take control of the eastern and central mediterranean. we have no more time to waste, signor borrell! the european union needs to act immediately.
mr president, on three occasions, on 10 june, a french frigate was torpedoed by turkish ships, an act of deliberate military aggression which normally calls for a response by fire. france has suspended its participation in nato missions in the mediterranean, but there has been no reaction from the commission, the council or parliament, institutions that are literally on their knees before erdogan. illegal drilling in the territorial waters of the member states, blackmail and extortion with migrants, used as a means of pressure on the european union, objective complacency with jihadism in syria and libya, massacre of kurds, our allies in the fight against daesh: nothing is done, the submission of the european union to turkey is total. your majority continues to negotiate an accession process with the ottoman imperialist, your majority pays billions to the autocrat erdogan to keep the migrants at home. this submission, which is also reflected in your speech, mr commissioner, leaves cyprus, greece and now france to defend themselves. i went to the greek-turkish border, and i saw the greek army alone, holding our european borders. i saw the bridges mined so they could be destroyed in case of a turkish attack. it is high time that the union and parliament put an end to the accession negotiations with erdogan, the open enemy of our european nations.
mr president, a turkish warship that is playing off french sailors, turkish frigates that are repelling a greek helicopter carrying out a cargo check, arms deliveries and militiamen to libya despite an embargo, military incursions into syria and iraq and duplicity with daesh... is it still necessary to mention the project to turn hagia sophia into a mosque so that everyone is well aware of erdogan's provocative and bellicose intentions? this is clearly not enough for the representatives of the european union. i visited the border between greece and turkey last march and, like everyone else, i saw the new sultan's aggression towards our continent, towards a state, greece, which you have abandoned to turkey's unacceptable blackmail of migrants. diplomacy is a power struggle that you have abdicated. the european union must now, more than ever, put an end to this game of tricks with regard to erdogan, to which you have submitted for too long. the aggression on our borders and our army is unacceptable. economic sanctions must be imposed, starting with the suspension of all economic aid paid to ankara with the money of the french and the european peoples.
mr president, in 1935 mustafa kemal converted the hagia sophia into a museum, which bears witness to the christian heritage in turkey and to the universal vocation of this heritage. today, recep tayyip erdogan decided to turn it into a mosque. the message is clear: the falsification of history by the turkish government today, such as the armenian genocide, the deportation of the greeks from asia minor or the persecution of the kurds, unfortunately serves a dangerous future project. europe must come out of denial. the road turkey is taking is worrying, not only for the near and middle east but for the whole world and for europe in particular. this is evidenced by the recent serious tensions in the mediterranean sea. and i would like to reiterate here our support for the greek and cypriot people who are directly under pressure and blackmail. in the face of this europe is powerless today and we are being asked today to send money to turkey for our farmers, which will feed funds that we do not know exactly how to control, of course. it is time to get out of denial and, for a start, to put an end to this accession procedure which is nothing but an absurd fiction.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, before i start, allow me to thank you for raising this important topic and for the debate we are about to have. culture is part of europe’s dna. our rich and vibrant cultural and creative scene is one of the greatest gifts europe has to offer and it must be preserved at all costs. we all know how much the sector has suffered. the cultural and creative sectors have been hit by the pandemic in an unprecedented way. 95% of the sector are small businesses, small enterprises, independent artists and freelancers who are highly vulnerable and often work under very precarious conditions. the commission has had a regular exchange with member states, the european parliament and the sector itself over these past months to come up with solutions. let me first start by what we could call the emergency solutions. one of the first actions we have adopted was to mobilise cohesion policy funds to respond to the rapidly emerging needs through the corona response investment initiative. these packages provided member states with liquidity and exceptional flexibility to reallocate financial resources in the areas of greatest need, which of course also includes cultural and creative industries. second, another vital emergency initiative was the new instrument for temporary support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency, also known as the sure programme, worth up to eur 100 billion. this is a scheme designed to protect jobs and workers affected by the pandemic and, here again, it is for member states to make the best possible use of this instrument and money and bring the much needed relief to creators, artists and writers. third, we have, as you know, enacted the temporary framework for state aid measures to support the economy in the pandemic, and culture was specifically included as one of the sectors particularly hit by the crisis together with transport, tourism, hospitality and retail. many member states, if not all of them, have already used this instrument for the creative and cultural sectors. but, beyond the emergency measures we have also taken many specific actions. some cultural actors have indeed developed their own promising initiatives to overcome the crisis and through this dialogue and synergies between member states, the sector, the commission, parliament and others, we want to bring about specific initiatives. one of the best examples was the european cultural foundation that set up a new culture of solidarity fund. another platform for and by the sector was the so—called creatives unite initiative set up through the pilot project finance, learning, innovation and patenting for cultural and creative industries (flip). this is an initiative that offers a common space for all cultural and creative sectors in europe and beyond, giving access to a multitude of existing resources and relevant networks to work on. a few weeks ago, a conference with representatives from the commission, the parliament, the council president and the sector was precisely organised through this platform of creatives unite. let me now come, of course, to our flagship programme creative europe. there again we applied maximum flexibility within the existing regulatory context for ongoing and planned actions. we extended a number of deadlines to facilitate the finalisation of obligations under these difficult circumstances and we also planned specific measures for cinemas, for instance, with a eur 5 million supplementary allocation of funds in the form of vouchers for cinemas most severely affected by the lockdown. and we redirected the work of the support scheme for the cross—border dimension of performing arts works towards digital culture and virtual mobility. and beyond the creative europe programme we will very soon launch a targeted support to the disproportionately hit music sector through the music moves europe initiative and there we plan to shift about eur 2.5 million in this year to help the sector become more sustainable after the crisis. we are also exploring how to adapt and reinforce the cultural and creative sectors through the guarantee facility that would be used in a specific situation to allow for even more flexibility, credit holidays or guarantee cover to individual loss. let me now quickly come to the recovery and the next generation eu chapter. as you know, next week we’re having a landmark meeting of our heads of state and government in what i want to believe would be a path towards an agreement on the much needed recovery and next generation eu package as proposed by the commission. for culture and creative sectors, support will be available, not only through the creative europe programme, but also through other programmes, such as react—eu, the new cohesion policy, investeu, digital europe programme, just to name a few. so, i think it should be wrong to see creative europe as the only pathway, the only avenue for recovery in the years to come. we have a multitude of instruments in the new package and we can use it effectively. but beyond the recovery package – and that’s how i wanted to conclude this initial presentation – one should not forget that we also have possibilities coming from different avenues, like, for example, horizon europe, where we have a cluster 2: culture, creativity and inclusive society programme, which has fantastic opportunities for the sectors. and we should also keep in mind the so—called knowledge and innovation communities (kics), which for the first time will be dedicated to cultural and creative industries through our european institute for technology, based in budapest, madam president, if i may remind. so, all these tools will converge into having a strong new start after the difficult pandemic sectors without forgetting tourists. you remember that a few weeks ago, last month actually, we presented a comprehensive tourism and travel package and cultural tourism accounts for 40% of all european tourists, so we have to make sure that at the beginning of this summer tourist season, europe will not lose its focus on its cultural tourism privilege. honourable members, madam president, in these difficult times culture is not a luxury, it is becoming a necessity. culture is part of our heritage. culture is our european way of life. to preserve it, defend it and promote it, we must unite and work together to make this new future as bright as possible. i count on your support so that we keep supporting, helping, assisting our dynamic communities of artists and creators.
madam president, mr vice-president, thank you for leading this fight for culture, for the cultural sector, together. turns out it makes sense. i would like to thank the vice-president for introducing a number of activities here that complement those we already know, in particular creative europe. i would also like to mention the economic significance. the cultural sector accounts for 3 to 4% of gdp in the european union. and that doesn't include what it brings to tourism. you, mr vice-president, mentioned it at the end, but all cultural activities, cultural monuments, concerts, festivals, all of that is the target of tourism. without these cultural activities, there would be no tourism, which is the economic engine of many european countries. and that's why we're working so hard to make sure that both creative europe and the new recovery fund are open to these activities. the recovery fund will be a huge investment program, and it's up to the member states to really use this program to restore and actively use cultural heritage, to support the cultural sector, including independent media, the film industry, to really make up for the impact of the covid-19 crisis in some way, because it's destructive. and we know that. if the creative europe programme is not significantly increased - and we would like to see this, i ask you, mr vice-president, to support this again at the european commission level - then the recovery fund must be ready to provide support in these investment activities. i would like to recall that 2018 was a successful year for european cultural heritage, which we want to see repeated. and let me close with a big appeal. the world heritage site of hagia sophia, a temple-museum that serves both christians and muslims, is very much at risk, and please, let's all stand together to make this temple-museum a museum, to make it a place of reconciliation and a monument to how these religions can live together and protect their cultural roots.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it was a beautiful sight to see over 8,000 buildings, convention centres and playgrounds lit up red in many german cities on the night of 22 june. the reason for this alignment of the night of light was less beautiful, however. in a very short time, the corona crisis has pushed the entire cultural and events industry to the brink. it would have been necessary to put the berlaymont building on red alert. the commission seems to be still not fully aware of the seriousness of the situation, and what you have just presented to us, commissioner, is essentially a few drops on the hot stone. the cultural and creative sectors are not really taken into account in the building fund or in the next multiannual financial framework of the eu. there's not much to say here except warm words. the cultural programme is even to be reduced compared with the commission's original proposal. i therefore very clearly call for at least 2% of the development fund to be set aside as a european lifeline for culture and for this to be recorded and not put in the hands of the member states. and as regards the creative europe programme, we as parliament must not fail to continue to call for a doubling of the budget for the creative europe programme. let us not only repair the damage done, but try to create something new.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, during the lockdown, authors and artists were there for us, to bring us dreams, escape, and sometimes smiles, even when the heart was not there. and all of this for free. they've been there for us, so are we going to be there for them? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. cinemas, festivals, museums, concert halls, theatres, monuments: the first to close, they will be the last to reopen after months of losses and uncertainties. uncertainties that the european union has not removed, especially by announcing the ridiculous amounts allocated to the new creative europe programme: only +8% while the european parliament called for a doubling. it should be noted that europe devotes only 0.14% of its budget to culture. this is a bad sign because it is obvious that the cultural revival must come through europe. what i am asking you today is that all the european emergency mechanisms be mobilised for culture: the sure programme for part-time unemployment, the big next generation eu stimulus plan to support its industries and its sectors of various sizes, made up of smes and self-employed people, and which together represent 4% of our gdp. after the emergency phase, europe will also need to be more ambitious in showing that culture is irreplaceable, in illustrating our diversity, our commitment to freedom of expression and creation. there are many avenues for cultural heritage, for opening up opportunities for our creators in the digital age, for launching major european co-productions, for including our cultural industries in the european green deal. finally, commissioner, let us have this ambition: to strengthen europe, to give a direction to our european values, we must ensure that culture is integrated into the dialogue with the citizens in the framework of the conference for the future of europe. but first, if culture is to be the future of europe, europe must give culture a future.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, if i had to do it all over again, i would start with culture. this apocryphal phrase attributed to jean monnet is of particular importance at a time when we are questioning our ways of life, our modern societies, the very existence of our european union. during the covid crisis, culture was present in every household. during the lockdown, culture has brought comfort and hope. culture is a vital element of a society, it expresses, represents, transcends, it is the bridge between generations, between men, between languages. she entertains, she celebrates, she imagines. from museums to theatres, from dance halls to libraries, culture brings us together. culture is a privileged tool for mutual understanding and for overcoming discrimination, but also for strengthening human dignity, democracy, equality and solidarity: the founding values of europe. here before you, it is a true declaration of love i make to culture and to those who make it live. the crisis, in the absence of a proportionate and ambitious response from our policies, has hit hard all those who have made culture their profession: artists, authors, technicians, creators, intermittents. for all of them, the momentum must be the moment when culture ceases to be a corollary to the other priorities and sectors of activity of the european union. culture deserves to become a priority in its own right, from a political and budgetary point of view. if we do not place culture at the heart of our european project, the world we want for our children is surely a world of crises, conflicts and wars. in conclusion, i would like to quote the recent words of olivier py: we must seize the opportunity that is before us, that of recreating a european project in which culture is not a luxury but an imperative duty, so we must.
madam president, commissioner, 7 million artists, workers and workers in the european cultural world, these inventors of soul, in the words of césaire, are threatened by the crisis. these women, these precarious men, who are signing short contracts, are suspended from the announcements of the states and the union. at a time when cultural events are being postponed or cancelled, culture is too often the poor relative of public policy and we have seen how important it was during this lockdown crisis. in two months, for example, 10 million virtual visitors to the louvre. culture is not the promotion of the european way of life, it is a common good that builds a more just, more tolerant society. so let's choose to make culture an answer to the identity withdrawal and the doubts that beset us. some members of parliament have only their identity on their lips and we know the culture that is threatened when nationalists come to power. we must take responsibility, reverse the planned budget cuts and increase the amount creative europe provides to help artists. milan kundera said: 'culture is the memory of the people, the collective consciousness of historical continuity, the way of thinking and living'. let us now rise to the occasion by breaking with the dogma of austerity and rethinking the financing of cultural creation.
mr president, madam commissioner, this morning, at this very moment, one of the territories most affected by covid-19 is a french overseas territory on the doorstep of brazil, french guiana. european guyana is facing a terrible health crisis. in 48 hours, the french prime minister and the minister for overseas affairs will be in the country to strengthen the protection of the population, but europe must also intervene. of course there is the resceu scheme, of course we must intervene, but we must also consolidate and support local solutions: regional authorities and smes need this. you have to trust the experience and expertise of the field. we must do everything we can to fight the virus, but we must also fight against the feeling of being abandoned in the face of covid-19. a response of solidarity is needed throughout europe, and we have the answer, the solution: cohesion, cohesion between the territories, cohesion between all europeans. so flexibility, simplification, responsiveness, all these crisis management tools must be consolidated and they must become the rule, the rule of building a useful and supportive europe.
madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic has taken us by surprise. it stunned the europeans at our impotence in the first few weeks. as our economies, our workers, are being dealt a severe blow, our responsibility as elected officials is to give hope. the hope is that we will be better prepared in the future to deal with any health crisis, however sudden. the hope that our world of tomorrow will be more resilient, greener, more innovative, more united. it is in this spirit that the heads of state or government adopted this recovery plan. this is a major step forward for our future, a historic moment. i think that no one in this house will be able to dispute that, unless they are acting in absolute bad faith. so i congratulate you, mr president, on reaching agreement on this extraordinary budget. we strongly support it. but the task was far from easy. but honestly, what could be more predictable? the heads of state and government are entangled in unanimity; they are dragging their own budgetary constraints all the way to brussels and they know full well that they will be judged by a national reading grid that is absolutely uncompromising. this has to stop! madam president, mr president, in the position we are going to adopt today, we, the members of the european parliament, are asking for a clear and binding commitment to the rapid introduction of new own resources. no vague terms such as "in view of" or "possibly". we ask the gafa, the multinationals who practice tax optimisation, the large polluting industries in china to contribute. they are the ones who have to bear the burden of this debt. in fact, this is the very reason for this recovery plan, the very essence of it: to ensure solidarity between our countries, without adding to the burden on our citizens. we want to make clear that we want to put into law what has been done in the spirit. our request is part of the dynamic of your agreement. mr president, today we can begin negotiations on this ordinary budget together, in confidence, with ambition and speed.
madam president, mr president, this agreement is historic, as everyone has said - and i am not displeased with the far right in this house - since the beginning of this sitting. that may not be your story, mr. bay, but it's ours. this agreement reflects the extraordinary impetus which has enabled the creation of a large recovery fund in addition to the european budget. we must also be aware, ladies and gentlemen, of where we are coming from: a few weeks ago we were told that this agreement was impossible. some of them had vetoed the very idea of an extraordinary rescue plan, with a veto on transfers, a veto on the principle of a common debt, and we got there. this is a great step forward for europe and i think we should all welcome it. now this resolution has the delicate task of welcoming this historic agreement while recalling the demands of the representatives of the european people that we are as members of parliament. i would perhaps have liked it to be more positive about the agreement, but at the same time we are the 28th voice in this negotiation and we are proposing legitimate and concrete changes for the lives of european citizens: more funds for erasmus, more health, and above all more effective own resources more quickly. i agree with the proposal by my colleague guy verhofstadt for a more rapid repayment of our common debt. madam president, we have heard that four days of talks between heads of state and government is the price of democracy. i agree, nowhere on any other continent can 27 member states agree on such an ambitious plan in four days. but you must also bear in mind that a few weeks of negotiations with the european parliament on a budget which commits us for seven years is also the price of democracy: we will be ambitious, we will not block but we will be in the course of history.
madam president, the four days and nights of tough negotiations have not done the european union any honour, and this summit is ending as divided as ever. the agreement was reached after a long period of war, and the balance of the initial project was thrown out of balance, symbolizing a historic failure on several levels. a failure for europe, whose image is tarnished by irreversible antagonisms. a failure, then, to question the credibility of the project. emmanuel macron said on tuesday evening that the french taxpayer would pay nothing for the stimulus plan. but, objectively, who can believe this fable? we are really walking on water with the european union. how can a loan be repaid with own resources which do not exist at present and which will require a unanimous decision by the member states, assuming that they are sufficient to allow repayment? this joint loan is contrary to article 311 tfeu, and we will pay it until 2058. it is an unacceptable budgetary integration. i fear and condemn the next step, which will undoubtedly be the creation of a european treasury and its corollary, namely a generalized mutualisation of debts. there is also a failure to prioritize. how do we explain the outright removal of the eu4health health programme, which was europe's ad hoc response to the pandemic? public health is a cross-border challenge, but clearly no lessons have been learned from this crisis. there is also failure in terms of broken commitments. how can we justify the continuation and even the increase of the rebates, when brexit should have brought an end to this unjust system? the approval of the recovery plan by the national parliaments will finally open the debate on the principle of subsidiarity. why would a european plan be more effective than a series of national plans? this deceptive agreement hides a europe undermined by the federalists, who are secretly advancing their deadly project for the nations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are relieved that we have avoided the worst of all possible outcomes, namely a no-deal that would have aggravated the crisis we are going through. but like many, many pro-europeans, i have a taste of ashes in my mouth. why would you do that? politically, we have seen national egoism clash. the european political imagination can no longer be that of free and undistorted competition between the nations which make up the union. the shortcomings of the multiannual budget are glaring: the near absence of own resources deprives the union of any real capacity for action, the governance of the recovery fund hurts our idea of democracy. finally, given the chosen slope, that of sacrificing ecological objectives, the fledgling european green deal is likely to disappear quietly into the mirages of the resilience plan, which seems to be mistaken for a conventional recovery plan. we will be told that we acted in haste, but we must understand that if we find ourselves facing a wall today, it is because for too long the choices we have made have been about short-term victory at the expense of the future. the europe of small steps forward is now preparing europe for the great leap backwards and is threatening the very survival of the european idea. we are not, as i have heard, the twenty-eighth voice of europe, we are the first voice of europe because we are the representatives of the european people. it is time to listen to parliament.
madam president, parliament does not accept this agreement. these are the very strong words of article 3 which we are voting on this morning. of course, solidarity from european countries was expected in the face of this historic crisis, and yet this recovery plan brings a real question of wrong answers. the european union's common debt is the answer. some of them, we heard, are already singing a historic moment. the epidemic we are coming out of, with its procession of mourning, and the unprecedented economic crisis ahead of us should not force us to rejoice. no one should have the right to turn this tragedy into an unexpected opportunity to revive old illusions to which the citizens of our countries have already said no many times. what will they say when they find out that this stimulus plan is actually a federalist leap that didn't say its name and that they didn't agree to? when they realise that this borrowing is useless, because our countries can now easily access markets, there are counterparts that our governments are careful not to tell them about; when future generations will have to pay back a debt ironically incurred in their name, without anyone today knowing how to pay it back? to get this common debt, we have paradoxically sacrificed all the europe we really need. food self-sufficiency has never been more crucial, and agricultural policy is down by 40 billion; the crisis that is unfolding makes our strategic independence essential, and the european defence fund is split in half; the commission's green transition funding has been cut from €30 billion to €10 billion, and even as the epidemic has revealed our weaknesses, european research is cut by €13 billion and the health programme is cut from €9.5 billion to €1 billion. a genuine historic agreement would have consisted in not being enthusiastic because we have managed to increase our debts again, in preparing for our future by reorienting european union policies in depth so that we can become stronger, in adapting our competition policies to rebuild our industry or in finally deciding on this carbon tax, which no one has managed to bring to fruition at the frontiers of the single market, instead of postponing this debate further. only then can we achieve a real european recovery, and this is what our parliament must do today.
(start of intervention outside micro) ... money for health, climate and employment without asking more from national budgets. the digital tax is very good, but it's 2 billion a year. two billion. the plastic tax is fantastic, but it's 5 billion, and it's going to go down. the best solution, the one that can bring the most money and bring together the most countries, is the financial transaction tax. the council has spoken of this in its conclusions. that's good. but it is not enough to talk about it, we need an agreement, and we need it this year. despite brexit and despite the crisis, a financial transaction tax could bring in $50 billion a year. in 2011, the barroso commission proposed a directive, and this directive, despite brexit and the crisis, can bring in $50 billion a year. fifty billion euros, 15 billion to pay off the common debt and 35 billion more for health, climate and employment. this is the position of the socialist group: here is a solution for a more ambitious budget, without an extra euro from the member states. the council said it was a priority, germany said it was one of its priorities. i'm glad to hear it. i am rapporteur for the 2021 budget and as a citizen, as a member of parliament, i cannot accept a budget if we have not reached an agreement on the ftt this year. we want another 50 billion for health, climate and jobs.
in writing. the agreement on the post-covid-19 recovery plan is far from the historic success announced by french president emmanuel macron, since it is the result of a bargaining between the interests of the so-called frugal countries, the eastern countries, the franco-german couple and the southern countries. the key word in this plan is debt! the €750 billion plan adopted provides for €390 billion in grants, which are non-repayable by the beneficiaries, and €360 billion in loans. the eu will have to borrow large sums on the capital markets without its own resources. the debt of the european union is the debt of the member states and especially of the net contributors to the european budget, which, like france, pay more than they receive. to be sure of advancing his europeanist project, macron has thus sacrificed france with an agreement that allows a pernicious federalist agenda to be advanced behind the backs of the peoples and at the expense of the french taxpayer. if france is to receive 40 billion in subsidies, it will also have to pay off this new, colossal debt until 2058, with a considerable increase in its contribution to the eu budget.
mr president, i would like to address all of you and express our disgust at the abject caricature of my colleague danièle obono, elected to the french national assembly, as a chained slave, in the newspaper of the far-right group values actuelles. this disgusting cartoon, full of vile racism and sexism, should make us collectively react here. the violence of this attack is obviously first of all personal, with a desire to humiliate an elected representative of the republic because of her skin colour, but it is also a political message legitimising racism and discrimination suffered daily by millions of black europeans. violence in images and words leads to violence in deeds, and the council of europe has just warned us of their alarming increase across europe. so we in parliament are very clear: we can no longer stand by and watch the trivialization of uncomplicated racism. you must not let anything pass you by, not give an inch, not look down. our role is to take a stand, as we did a few weeks ago when we voted to recognize the slave trade as a crime against humanity. let us now rise to the occasion and condemn in the strongest possible terms the racism which is breaking out before our eyes.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the interim report by the european parliament, which is entirely against poland, is only intended to put the nations that are falling out of line in step, confirming the 'uniformisation of nations' that mrs von der leyen wants to impose. the initiation of the article 7 procedure against poland is a humiliation, an unacceptable attack on its sovereignty. the legal argument is also weak on several points. one example among many: the report highlights the bias of the media in poland. but, objectively, in what country in the world would the media be impartial? we must be careful. furthermore, the stigmatization of lgbt people after the return to power of the conservative law and justice party in 2015 remains to be confirmed. the arrest of activists is not a generality. at the moment, brussels is giving the world the impression of a europe weak in the face of erdogan's warmongering attitude in the eastern mediterranean, who even paid for the luxury of directly threatening the french frigate courbet on 30 august, but who is saying with unprecedented confidence that the situation in poland will have a negative impact on the situation in the member states. the european union's courage would not require an authority over poland - it must first be possible to verify - but a determination to stop all funding for turkey, which violates greek maritime zones and illegally occupies northern syria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the polish government, do not be afraid of your own citizens, of their diversity, of their aspiration for freedom, equality and life. ladies and gentlemen of the european commission, madam vice-president, do not be afraid to pursue infringement proceedings, to impose fines, to cut subsidies. we cannot say yes to european funds but no to values. do not be afraid to promote and protect the european way of life. my dear colleagues, do not be afraid to let all european citizens know that we are here, that here in the european parliament, respect for the values of the european union is an unbridgeable horizon. we must say this to all our fellow citizens: do not be afraid to demand your fundamental rights! we say to those lgbt activists who are so abused by the polish police, to those who fight, but also to those who hide: do not be afraid to be who you are, do not be afraid to live free, do not be afraid to live! we tell you this, do not be afraid.
mr president, by minimizing the decline in rights and freedoms over the past decade, by allowing it to be said that our values can be negotiated, we have created our own monsters within the european union. we have allowed the development of official zones in the european union where lgbti people are not accepted, and this in a public way. but the foundations of the rule of law, our inalienable rights, our freedoms are non-negotiable. on the contrary, they are universal and intangible, and there can be no definition according to the state in which one lives. these are rights written into our texts and our charters, inherited from our common histories of atrocities and heroic battles. when the polish government wants to withdraw from the istanbul convention because it claims that it contains harmful ideological elements or when it wants to restrict the right to abortion even further, it is women's universal, intangible and imprescriptible rights that are under attack! when this same government claims that there is a supposed lgbti ideology, it is still the human rights of all, intangible, universal and imprescriptible, that are trampled! when the independence of the judiciary, media pluralism, the rights of the opposition are threatened in a state, it is once again the elementary rules of law that are not accepted. and when the commission refuses to pursue infringement proceedings against these guilty states because it has alleged legal doubts, we can ask ourselves: do the people who, at the highest level of the institutions, interpret the law really want to protect all these rights?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very important debate about a very serious issue which was not only about the situation in poland, but also i understood that this was a wider context in the debate about the rule of law situation in the eu. let me start with with a recollection of how we felt about the rule of law and values some years ago, maybe 10 years ago. we used to speak about the independent judges and about the freedom of speech and a vibrant civil society, free and fair elections. it was with a very relaxed voice, as if we had created some kind of perpetuum mobile for values in the eu. now we see that we have to deploy all possible powers and measures to renew the importance of the values like rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy to the european union, because these are the values the eu was thus founded on. and speaking about measures, i indeed described what we do in the field of infringement procedures. we can only use them when there is a clear violation of eu law. it might sound legalistic. it is. it is a legal approach, as ms delbos-corfield mentioned, but we, the commission, are not activists. we can only start infringement procedures when we have a very solid legal ground, and believe me, i want to win the cases. we cannot afford to lose the cases which relate to rule of law issues. it’s too important, and we need also to work on the credibility of the eu, and losing the cases would not be a good thing. that’s why i wanted to attract your attention also to the previous cases where they were all successful. and important cases relating to rule of law. article 7: we obviously see that there was a lack of imagination in those who created the lisbon treaty, who foresaw the article 7 as a functional measure. we see now that it’s toothless. we have lengthy procedures, we have the debate about hungary and poland, and it’s not only hungary supporting poland and vice versa. there are other member states who are supporting states where we see obvious breach of the basic principle of the rule of law. so we have to deploy further measures. obviously, we have to accelerate more and more powers and to be also innovative in how to support the rule of law in the member states. that’s why we proposed the rule of law conditionality, the linkage between the rule of law principle and the budget. you know that there was a very difficult debate on the night of 21 june when the council was adopting the new budget, and the talks will continue. i do believe that we need such an instrument. i sometimes say in a rather cynical way that whoever doesn’t understand the values usually understands the money. let’s use this instrument. we need it. and also because the taxpayers of many member states are fed up with funding projects in the countries where fundamental rights are violated. and here i come also to the issue of the breach of the rights of the lgbti people. where we are now with the budget is a very dangerous situation. the bigger the money, the lower the trust. i think that this is devastating. we need to promote the idea of linking the eu taxpayers’ money with the basic principles of the eu. the second measure which we want to use is also a response to the criticism which i heard from this side of parliament that that is double or triple standards, different treatments, that we are only focusing on poland and hungary. it was never my goal. i always wanted to make a very objective and fair comparison of the situation of the rule of law in the member states and it cannot be done by comparing two laws or two articles in two different laws in germany and poland or in hungary and spain. we have to look at the broader picture in all the member states. that’s why we are now finishing the work on the rule of law report where we will focus not only on the situation of the judiciary but also on media and on the anti-corruption fight, because we believe that these are interconnected features and factors and we should be able to make an objective assessment. the way of assessing is very transparent. also the authorities in poland and all the other member states had a possibility to comment on the findings and we will soon make the reports public and make further comments. indeed, it was also said here, we need a better definition of what we mean by the rule of law. we will do that. we will always make better and better explanations because we also simply have to explain on a continuous basis to the citizens of the eu why we need the rule of law principle in place, why we need an independent judge. there is a lack of awareness of how important the principle is for every single citizen. so i believe that these two new instruments will help to increase our ability. now it will be a quote in many of your speeches to do ‘something;. we need to do something more. my objective is also – and it is the reaction of sophia in ‘t veld – that there has been enough dialogue. my objective is to continue the dialogue because poland is an eu member state, and i really want to invite poland back to europe where we esteem and respect values. sorry i am long. on the lgbti issue, i am in permanent contact with the polish ombudsman. we have strengthened the competences of equality bodies which are available for lgbti people. we need to be clearer that the financial resources of the eu will not be paid in case there is such a violation of the fundamental rights of people. and it was a good thing that we stopped the funding of the six projects because there was no clarification of what’s happening there. i was happy to see also the peer pressure of other municipalities which didn’t want to cooperate, because what we see in some of the municipalities is a big worry that the lgbti people are under big threat. moreover, when we hear the aggressive rhetoric against lgbti people from the political circles, it is a kind of authorisation to do the same thing for the whole society. i find this intolerable. the commission will continue working on this issue. you said that you don’t want to hear anything about monitoring and analysing. well we are now analysing how to react to the declarations elaborated by the municipalities because the legal issue is that they are not laws or sub-laws which could be addressed by the infringement procedure, but we are trying to find a way. and from this place i would like to send a lot of encouragement to lgbti people because europe is standing behind them.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you for your generosity in allowing me one last minute simply to thank you for the vividness of this debate. i appreciate all the speeches and i certainly appreciate those with whom i have shared principles. but i have also appreciated those who have opposed the contents of this report head-on. i would like to say that this would not be the tenth resolution on poland if it were a question of prosecuting a law - whether it be on the constitutional tribunal, the judicial council or minority rights - but what is prosecuted is its abrupt accumulation over time and without any concession to any minority. because here is the point: it has never been true that the rule of law and democracy in europe are simply the vindication of national sovereignty and the law of the majority. on the contrary, it is a shared sovereignty over the protection of the right to dissent, the opposition, and the protection of minorities, as they have been expressed here; obviously, minorities who have opposed this report.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the joint debate is closed. the vote on the amendments to the report will take place on wednesday, 16 september 2020, with the final vote on thursday, 17 september 2020. * see minutes of the sitting.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the council on the strategic approach to medicinal products in the environment by cristian-silviu buşoi, günther sidl, jan huitema, michèle rivasi, simona baldassarre, joanna kopcińska and kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2020 - b9-0015/20) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the strategic approach to medicinal products in the environment by cristian-silviu buşoi, günther sidl, jan huitema, michèle rivasi, simona baldassarre, joanna kopcińska and kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2020 - b9-0015/20).
thank you very much, mr. author of the questions. i now give the floor to the representative of the german presidency and the council, mr michael roth, and i would also like to say that i am pleased for the house that you were here during the debate on the rule of law and poland, because this is a very important debate for parliament, also in the light of the decisions on the multiannual financial framework.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i sometimes reserve the right to be here if you have not specifically invited me. i am particularly honoured to be able to convey the council's position on this important subject, mr president, because you are quite right: there is growing evidence that residues of certain medicinal products in soil and water pose a major risk to animal and human health and may also cause environmental damage. what seems to be particularly dangerous are the residues of antimicrobials used in humans and also in livestock farming; they're a particularly big problem. antimicrobial resistance is a serious and global public health threat. their effects go beyond the serious consequences for human and animal health. it also affects agriculture and food production, and thus trade and economic growth. antimicrobial resistance is a major obstacle to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. the council is aware of the environmental risks associated with the manufacture, use and disposal of medicinal products. it stresses that actions must be consistent with the concept of 'one health', which takes into account the interaction between human and animal health and the environment. efforts in one sector alone are not enough. for this reason, ministers in both the environment and health councils welcomed the commission's communication on the eu strategic approach to medicines in the environment. in its strategic approach, the commission has identified six areas where improvements are possible. these improvements, which can be achieved at all stages of the life cycle of medicinal products, contribute to the achievement of the goal of a sustainable development of europe by 2030. the commission is also right to take the view that, in order to be effective, the measures should not only include end-of-pipe checks, such as improved waste water treatment. they should also consider the original sources of emissions, such as production, disposal and use. the eu is a strong global player, particularly on environmental issues, and we all have a duty to strengthen cooperation on this important issue at international level. this too is part of the proposed strategy. the council looks forward with interest to the new pharmaceutical strategy for europe which the commission intends to present this autumn. we shall certainly have to consult in that light. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the commission's communication on medicinal products in the environment focuses on actions that will start, be launched and in some cases be completed in 2020. the commission has stated that it will take stock of the progress made and decide on further steps. the council is prepared to review all the results in the light of this proposal and, if necessary, to re-examine its position in the interests of the environment and the protection of animals and humans.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you and the members for tabling the oral questions and for including this important issue on the agenda of this week’s plenary session. there is overwhelming evidence that traces of pharmaceuticals in water and soil endanger wildlife such as fish, birds and insects, and have an adverse impact on the environment. pharmaceuticals are now found across europe’s surface water, and have even reached our drinking water, even if not in quantities that cause immediate concern. effective medication must remain fully available to citizens. we all agree on this – in the light of the ongoing sanitary crisis probably more than ever. at the same time, we must avoid that there is an undue impact of pharmaceuticals on the environment, because this is the other aspect of which the pandemic has reminded us so strongly: that our health and well—being depends so heavily on a healthy environment. in 2019, the commission put forward the european strategic approach to pharmaceuticals in the environment. my colleague stella kyriakides and i, together, we are leading work within the commission on this important matter. we are pleased that the council and parliament have shown support for the approach, focusing on the entire life cycle of pharmaceuticals. today, and in reply to the points you raised in your oral questions, i am glad to report that we have made good progress in implementing the different actions we announced and proposed last year. for example, additional pharmaceuticals were included in the revised watch—list under the water framework directive in august this year. for example, additional pharmaceuticals were included for veterinary and medical products, and implementing and delegated acts are currently being drafted under the regulation on veterinary medical products. they also aim to promote more prudent use of antimicrobials and implement new rules on oral medication. the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals (reach) regulation already reduces emissions during manufacturing of pharmaceuticals through authorisation of used substances. but an effective reduction of the impact of pharmaceuticals on the environment cannot be achieved at eu level without strong engagement also at the level of national health authorities, the pharmaceutical industry and health professionals. in the medicines area, we have started working with member states’ health ministries, for instance to make sure health professionals are aware of environmental impacts, and we encourage initiatives taken in some nordic countries to use public procurement as a tool to promote pharmaceuticals that are produced in a green manner. the european medicines agency is currently working on updated guidelines on environmental risk assessment for human medical products, and in the waste sector, new guidelines will be developed on collecting schemes for unused medicines. in the area of research, the ongoing horizon 2020 programme is co—founding solution—oriented research, as illustrated, for example, by a wide—ranging study on contaminants of emerging concern, pathogens and antimicrobial resistance in the water cycle. all eu actions are closely aligned with world health organisation (who) guidance, and dialogues are established at political and technical level with manufacturing countries outside the eu, offering opportunities to raise concerns regarding the impact associated with the production of pharmaceuticals, especially antibiotics. we will, of course, continue to address pharmaceuticals in the environment in very concrete actions and the various upcoming deliverables under the european green deal, like the chemicals strategy and the zero—pollution action plan, and also under the upcoming pharmaceutical strategy, which my colleague stella kyriakides is preparing for the end of the year. also, the farm—to—fork strategy, presented earlier this year, includes an important target. to reduce by 50% by 2030 the overall eu sales of antimicrobials for farmed animals and in aquaculture. furthermore, in the follow-up to the evaluation of the urban waste water treatment directive, we are looking at ways to tackle micropollutants, including pharmaceuticals, which still pass through our waste water treatment plants. all these are concrete examples that illustrate the progress we are making to alleviate the impact of pharmaceuticals in the environment. the issue will remain high on our political agenda, and i can reassure you that we will continue to pursue our efforts together with you, with member states and with the industry, and, of course, with the professionals, to stay on track and make the necessary progress using both legislative and non—legislative means. i look forward to working very closely with you on this crucial topic.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. as with the last item on the agenda, the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday, 16 september 2020, and the final vote will take place on thursday, 17 september 2020. * see minutes
before we move on to the next item, i should like to inform you that the committee on transport has withdrawn the following requests for the urgency procedure under rule 163 of the rules of procedure. the two requests are for a decision authorising france to conclude an international agreement on the channel tunnel and for the application of rules on railway safety and interoperability in the channel tunnel. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr josé manuel fernandes and mrs valerie hayer, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council decision on the system of own resources of the european union (10025/2020 c9-0215/2020 2018/0135 ((cns)) (a9-0146/2020). as you all know, the own resources system is so important, on the one hand, because of the political independence and capacity of the european union to act, and on the other hand, because of the repayment of the appropriations now needed for the 'next generation eu' fund. i would also like to point out that this debate does not accept any kind of spontaneous communication or blue cards.
the rapporteur. i would like to welcome the council, the commission and all the members. today we give the green light, with the approval that will take place this week, not only for the introduction of the new own resource but above all for the implementation of the recovery fund. with our decision, with our opinion, the council can immediately proceed with the procedure of decision-making for approval, which must be unanimous in the council, and then ratification by the national parliaments in accordance with the constitution of each member state. we are working very quickly because we want the recovery fund to be ready and available by january 2021 - as soon as 1 january - and my question to the council, and to the council's representative, mr minister, is: when will the council adopt this decision? we have urged the council to approve this decision on new own resources immediately because we know that ratification normally takes between one and a half and two years, and it is urgent for the citizens of the european union who are waiting for this recovery fund, it is essential for the economy, for competitiveness, and it is also essential for territorial, economic and social cohesion. this recovery fund also brings a new challenge: we have to pay interest and depreciation and the new own resources are a solution. we do not want to burden the citizens of the european union. we also do not want to penalize future generations and cut the programmes and policies of the european union, and that is why we are defending new own resources on a simple principle: should be sufficient to at least pay interest and pay depreciation. we know very well that in this recovery fund from 2021 to 2027, we will only have 12.9 billion euros for interest, but then until 2058 we will have to pay interest and we will have to pay depreciation, and i hope that the council agrees with this principle: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and on the other hand, we cannot penalize future generations, we cannot have policy cuts, and our proposal is simple and based on principles that everyone should also agree with. for example, those who do not pay must pay, and that is why we ask that the digital giants be taxed. we also want to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union, and so the carbon border mechanism is a way for us to strengthen competitiveness, to generate revenue and to invite other countries which do not have the same environmental standards to also contribute to the objective of combating climate change. and so the new own resources, in addition to not penalizing the citizens of the european union, must be in line with the objectives and policies of the union, the fight against climate change, or the strengthening of competitiveness. and something we also considered very important was that, in addition to the linking of the new own resources to interest and amortisation, it was very important that interest and amortisation were counted above the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, our report answers a legitimate question that everyone is asking. this loan of 750 billion euros is good, it's fabulous, it's historic, really. but who's gonna pay for it? there are three possibilities. the first possibility is that we take money from european programmes to pay off this debt, which we would then be running on empty until 2058. we should then explain to young people that they can no longer go on to erasmus, to farmers that food sovereignty requires a reduction in the cap, to the unemployed that the european social fund can no longer finance their reintegration. who is to understand and to explain these things? the second possibility is that the member states pay off this debt by raising their national contributions, i.e. by raising taxes on european citizens. let me be very clear: neither of these solutions is acceptable. those who have lost their jobs or their income because of the crisis do not have to pay for the recovery either through additional taxes or fewer opportunities. for us in the european parliament, there is a third option, the only viable one in our view. to do this, we will have to cross the rubicon, accept the obvious: the creation of new own resources. for all those who are pro-european, including myself, this is a matter of course: the union is the optimal level for ensuring tax justice across our continent. let's just say we're not reinventing the wheel. what we are advocating is only the legal translation of what the heads of state and government decided at that summit on 21 july in their politically binding conclusions. so i can already hear the europeans everywhere calling for an imaginary tax on european households. i am looking you in the eye, you on the extreme right of this house. will you be able to explain to your compatriots tomorrow that you are dogmatically refusing to protect their wallets? how ironic for those who set themselves up as protectors of the little people against the great of this world. do you think it is normal that today the digital giants, who emerged stronger from the crisis, are still not contributing to their profits even though many europeans have to eat their savings? do you think it is normal that large chinese companies, who export products with a staggering carbon footprint to europe on a massive scale and at ultra-aggressive prices, without being subject to the same standards, do not offset their environmental impact? do you still think it is normal for multinational companies to practice tax optimisation, for financial institutions to speculate excessively or for tax dumping to be maintained in europe? well, i don't think that's normal, you know? it's these actors who have to pay for the revival. i refuse to let the europeans contribute. of course, this will require political will and courage. mr commissioner, mr minister, as you will have understood, the report we are debating today is not just a budget report, a little complex, a little 'techno', a little bit 'rebarbative'. no, what we're discussing today goes much further. what we are advocating today is a europe in which the states no longer go to long summits every seven years, over several days, to determine their rate of return or how to buy rich but weak states at indecent discounts. the choice that is about to be made between the states and the european parliamentarians is absolutely crucial. it will determine whether the union is irrevocably heading towards the status of an international organisation, like who, whose survival depends only on the goodwill of its member states, or whether the union will finally be armed with its own means to uphold its standards and values, to ensure the next generation of europeans a prosperous and green future, free from all debt, if not from recognition.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the year 2020 will go down in history as the year of a united europe. the proposed reform of the own resources system is a change of era and a paradigm shift for the european union. i hope we are all aware of this special responsibility in these extraordinary times. we all know that the system of own resources, as long as it existed, was highly controversial in all the institutions of the european union. i am not only with you, ladies and gentlemen, but also with the council and the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has once again succeeded in sending a true signal of action and solidarity, standing on the brink of collapse. the 'next generation eu' programme has a prominent role to play in this. a large amount of funding of 750 billion euros is available to the states, regions and people who have suffered the most from the pandemic. but i can only agree with the rapporteur on this point. of course, the money must flow quickly so that it can reach where it is really needed. this requires a new decision on the own resources system. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's own resources. it creates a basis from which to act rapidly and comprehensively in this extraordinary crisis. i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the council is aware of its particular responsibility in these difficult times, and you can imagine that the decision on this far-reaching reform in the european council was not an easy one. but with courage and with foresight and with solidarity, we have done it. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the main elements of the draft resolution. the first is the €750 billion in funding under the next generation eu programme. but it is also about opening the door to new own resources. the commission has also been involved in the preparation of the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. the european council has taken account of this wish. we're going to start in 2021 with a new tax, the plastic tax, based on the amount of plastic packaging waste that is not recycled. the draft decision of the european council goes even further, because it also outlines other own resources. the proposal is for new levies to be introduced during the 2021-2027 mff. we are talking about a carbon levy and also about the digital levy, which you are all too familiar with. and it is also a revised proposal for the emissions trading system. the european council also identified in its conclusions a possible path for the financial transaction tax to be introduced across the eu. this path shows the opportunity that is also associated with this own resources decision. i can therefore assure you that we all have a great interest in reaching a decision as soon as possible so that the multiannual financial framework, but also the 'next generation eu' building instrument, can be financed. i would like to express my gratitude to the chairman of the committee, mr van overtveldt, and also to the rapporteur, mrs hayer, and to the rapporteur, mr fernandes. it is only through their efforts that the european parliament's plenary session has been able to deal with this important decision so quickly. i can assure you - that was also mr fernandes' question - that the council, too, and of course in the light of your advice, wants to see a decision taken as soon as possible. i would like to take this debate as an opportunity to tell you something that we should not underestimate. we cannot look at and debate the own resources decision in isolation from the overall package, i.e. the mff, the 'next generation eu' and also other things, such as the rule of law conditionality. that's why we have to keep this package together. i therefore ask you to continue to work with us in the coming days and weeks in a hard and constructive manner so that we can reach a comprehensive agreement on this overall package as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am sorry to interrupt you just before the speech by budget commissioner johannes hahn, because i have to open today's voting. the items on which we are voting are those on the agenda which has already been adopted today. the vote will take place from 7.15 p.m. and will therefore be open for a few seconds until 8.30 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous partsession will be used, so that all members are familiar with it. the appointment of the chair of the ccp supervisory committee, i.e. esma's central counterparty supervisory committee, and the two independent members of that committee shall be decided by secret ballot. members vote in the conventional way, but the ballot paper they must receive and sign does not indicate how they voted, only that they voted. all other votes are by roll call. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote on the amendments to the rules of procedure. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, only explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i therefore declare the vote open. you can vote until 8.30 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning at the beginning of the sitting. we shall now continue the debate. i should like to thank the commissioner for the budget, mr johannes hahn, for his understanding and to give him the floor.
we now continue the debate on the report by josé manuel fernandes and valerie hayer, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council decision on the system of own resources of the european union (a9-0146/2020).
member of the commission. – mr president, the european council in july has taken, as it was already said by several speakers and certainly will be repeated by others, an important step towards reforming the revenue side of the european union budget. first, it has taken a pivotal decision to borrow on financial markets to support the post-covid-19 recovery in the member states. this will be enabled through the own resources decision. next generation eu, together with the core multiannual financial framework, is the largest package ever financed through the european union budget. it will give an unprecedented, ambitious answer to an unprecedented crisis. second, the european council has opened the door for modernisation of the own-resources system, which has not been reformed since 1988. this marks the first modernisation for more than half of our member states – 16 out of 27. the european council endorsed the simplification of the value-added-tax-based own resource, and agreed upon a new own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste as of 2021, and these are only the first steps, as it has also agreed that additional new own resources should be introduced during the next multiannual financial framework period – from 2021-2027 – to finance the repayment of the next generation eu borrowing and enable early repayments. the european parliament and the commission have for a long time worked towards reform of the revenue side of the eu budget. it’s very encouraging that the member states have begun to see what we have been advocating for so long. we have clearly managed to give a new drive to the own resource decision, and i would like to thank the european parliament for its support, and, may i say, stubbornness. let me go more into detail on the report you are set to adopt during this plenary. you foresee an ambitious timeline for the introduction of additional new own resources in your report. we see eye to eye. the commission concurs with the need to introduce additional new own resources which are closely aligned with our policy priorities and can support the repayment of funds on the next generation eu. i am happy to see that there are points of convergence with the european council conclusions of last july. this makes me hopeful that it will be feasible to introduce new own resources in the short term. in fact, preparatory work has already begun. we spare no efforts to match ambitions with the reality of the political and legal process. as you know, this is also one of the main issues of the trilateral political dialogue meetings on the mff. compared to the financial crisis of 2008-2009, europe’s response to this crisis was exceptional in both strength and speed. you are set to adopt your report less than two months after the european council at unprecedented pace. it is indeed commendable and thank you for that. i am confident that the council and national parliaments will follow your lead, thus facilitating the beginning of borrowing on the next generation eu already in january. to conclude, let me just underline that we would want to see the negotiations on the entire package, including the core mff, progressing with the same impressive pace. only in this way can we kick-start a recovery phase as of 1 january next year, with an ambitious and comprehensive recovery plan for europe, so we need it now and not next year.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome minister roth and commissioner hahn to the european parliament to this important debate. firstly, i would like to express on behalf of the group of the european people’s party our full support for the report and for the positions expressed by the two rapporteurs, ms valerie hayer and mr josé manuel fernandes. why do we support this report? we support it because the introduction of own resources makes the european union stronger, it makes it more capable to provide answers and solutions to the problems of the people, because one of the essential tools of the european union to fulfil the expectations of the people is the budget. and own resources into the budget means a more predictable budget, which means a robust budget in the longer term, capable of financing what the people expect the european union to finance. this reform of the own resources system and the introduction of new own resources is a position long advocated for by the european parliament and it is an achievement of the european parliament and i would like to thank members of the european parliament, who over the course of many years have fought for this. why do we need to introduce own resources exactly now? because we have indeed made the historic decision to launch the recovery and resilience facility and the whole next generation eu package. and the introduction of own resources is the only way to pay for the recovery and resilience facility without negatively affecting the eu budget in the future, because we do not want to see payments to farmers, payments to communes, to villages, to researchers, to erasmus students, to be affected in the future. neither do we want to see the security of our borders or our ambitions in the area of greening be affected. this is why we have to act now on own resources and this is why we, as the european parliament, demand a binding calendar for the introduction of own resources, legally binding. and this should finance at least the repayment of interest and of the whole next generation eu over the course of the next years. we did our work. the ball is now in the field of the council. minister roth, we expect to you, as the incumbent presidency, to act swiftly so that we fulfil our goal to have an ambitious multiannual financial framework (mff) and the own resources enter into force on 1 january 2021.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner hahn, minister roth, i have lost count of the years we have been calling for a serious negotiation on the financing of the european budget and on how to establish a tax basket that allows for ambitious budgets without depending on national coffers or drowning them. i think over the years we have given them endless reasons to get it going, but we are not quite there yet. in 2003, when we were negotiating the current financial framework, we reached an agreement to set up this high-level group chaired by mario monti. we already have the studio and we can't delay it any longer. it is a question of fiscal justice, because it is not possible that the usual people are the ones who support public policies with their taxes, and that the usual people are the ones who avoid contributing. it is a question of efficiency, because the introduction of certain taxes only makes sense at european level under the umbrella of the single market; it is a question of climate policy, because those who pollute the most must pay more and must also contribute to the financing of the just transition. and i would say that it is almost a question of the survival of the european project, because in this crisis, at last, a decisive economic response has been given with that great agreement on the recovery plan at the european council in july. but public finances are being overwhelmed by the spending needs that this new crisis brings and by those we have dragged from previous crises, so there is no other way, there is no other solution. yes or yes, we need to conclude an agreement on union funding, because we do not have a plan b here either.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, minister, the reform of own resources, diverted from its original objectives, is the european union's trojan horse in the creation of disguised european taxes. the european commission is silent about the fact that the average consumer will bear the consequences in terms of unemployment and price inflation. the effect of the border carbon tax will be that chinese or american multinationals will pass on their higher costs to their prices. the own resources system, which has been operating unchanged since 1988, was initially the subject of a welcome reform which compensated for the member states for the environmental or fiscal dumping we are suffering. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017 and the budget for the financial year 2017 and to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017. but under the cover of the economic crisis following the current pandemic, the commission has managed to force the acceptance of a mutualised loan repaid by autonomous revenues, to be created, and which will turn into a perennial tax for its sole benefit. the europeanisation of national public finances, which the european union has been preparing for several years, is now complete, with the creation of european taxes that do not say their name. but the fight is not over, because it must be admitted that germany is reluctant to introduce a carbon tax and ireland is reluctant to introduce a digital tax, unless qualified majority voting replaces the unanimity rule, which is engraved in the marble of the brussels treaties. in this case, in its budgetary and fiscal integration with means, it must be admitted, not glorious, then the people's distrust of it will still triumph.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a particular moment, a momentum. we have even heard of a hamiltonian moment. it is true that today, with this report, it is a form of the culmination of a long-running struggle by many and many meps who had perceived that not controlling our revenues was a democratic anomaly that had to be corrected. it is in this crisis that we realise how essential it is that we no longer depend on the goodwill of the council and the member states to be able to control our revenue and therefore control our expenditure. this report says that it is time for parliament and the european union to have their own resources, but above all it says that it is time for us to have fair resources. because today, in our various states, the tax falls too often, precisely, on ordinary citizens. what is now being proposed to the council is to finally have this fair taxation, the one that targets those who are currently avoiding taxation. it is the tax on financial transactions, it is the tax on gafam and it is also a tax on our borders, precisely to protect the companies in our territories that make the effort to be better in social and environmental matters. my dear friends, if we are to be able to get out of this crisis, we must put in place this fair taxation. the work of the co-rapporteurs, both mrs hayer and mr fernandes, reflects this will of parliament and i say very calmly: there will be no blackmail. we will not accept that the council puts us in front of the fait accompli, we want this taxation to be just. i would also add that for those countries which are in a hurry - and they are right - to have the revenue from the recovery plan, today's fair taxation, today's own resources, are tomorrow's solidarity. and if we put it off until later - i heard we've only opened the door, i heard there are only sketches of the paths to follow and i heard the date of 2027 - you know that tax justice, ecological transition later, that's ecology too late. so we must act urgently and we will be vigilant here in parliament to ensure that this momentum is translated into real change in the way our institutions operate.
mr president, dear friends, for health, for the climate, for jobs: in all our countries, we need money to win these three battles. the emergency plan agreed by heads of state in july is historic. historic, but totally inadequate. that is why parliament is today calling for real progress on own resources. as of 2024, the financial transaction tax (ftt) could bring in $50 billion annually. 50 billion each year, that is 15 billion to pay off the common debt linked to the emergency plan and 35 billion each year to reverse the budget cuts made by the heads of state to finance the green pact and all the priorities of the european union. if all the member states could be told that the common debt will be repaid by the ftt, ratification would be much easier. and if that 50 billion arrives by 2024, the risk of falling back into recession after the contingency plan would be much lower. the ftt directive has been on the table since 2011. this week parliament will vote on this ambitious timetable and we will campaign in all our countries to push heads of state to accept it. in 2014, angela merkel asked the british to give up their veto on the ttf. last week, mrs merkel reiterated that she wanted a deal on the ftt this year. this is also the aim of parliament: an agreement this year on the financial transaction tax.
mr president, democracy in europe, in britain as in france, is bound up with the principle of consent to taxation by legitimately elected parliaments and assemblies representing the sovereign people. whatever the merits of the report before us - i for one approve of a number of its proposals on the carbon tax, the tax on the gafam and also the tax on speculative financial operations - we will oppose this own resources project. why would you do that? because if i know of european nations, european peoples, to whom i recognize sovereignty over their own territory and nation, i do not know of any european people, and european sovereignty is a political artifice and a vain slogan. that is why we will oppose this principle of own resources, which is dishonest because the resources envisaged will not be sufficient to repay the debt, which does not seem to us democratic because it is not validated by a democratically elected parliament, and which seems to us to represent a dangerous coup for the economic governance of the european union and a serious precedent for our nations.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, by voting on our report this wednesday we will in fact be allowing the member states to begin the ratification process. in fact, we are going to ratify this stimulus plan to give our green light to this historic joint loan. after this vote on wednesday evening, we can say that we have taken our responsibility, that we have worked quickly and that the ball is now in the court of the national parliaments. the report is a report which, together with my colleague josé manuel fernandes, a portuguese christian democrat, has brought together our colleagues: elisabetta gualmini, an italian socialist, david cormand, a french ecologist, and dimitrios papadimoulis, a member of the greek radical left. and from the radical left to the right, through our renew europe political group, we have been able to unite around this principle: the debt must be repaid from the new own resources. of course, as has been pointed out, a legally binding timetable will be absolutely necessary to ensure their introduction. this shows that own resources are not a matter of left or right. the own resources are a matter of loving and making europe live, it is a matter of taking on, of having a sense of responsibility in protecting the economies of europeans. it is a demonstration of the ability to look up, to look beyond national interests, in the interests of europeans, whether french, dutch, romanian or danish. this is the requirement we expect from the member states to get out of the unanimity in which they are stuck - i must say, they are stuck on this subject. but this time they will have no choice, not only because we will be intransigent, mr minister, but because the states know that any other solution would strengthen the alternative for germany, the national rally in france, the pvv of geert wilders in the netherlands and all the eurosceptics, who would now have a boulevard to determine, and i say even to sacrifice - we already know this - our budgets, our european policies. this is something that every pro-european must fight against with all his might. you can count on us, commissioner, on our determination to make progress on the own resources issue. mr minister, you can count on our willingness to move forward constructively but with a high degree of urgency in these negotiations. our report is a plea for a union that protects the savings of its citizens and stands up to the world's greats. it's happening now.
mr. president, you certainly have a gift for turning gold into lead. until now, the european civil protection mechanism was one of the few european policies to be unanimous. this is a symbol of solidarity between the peoples of europe, and it was regularly praised even in our own ranks. on several occasions, it has helped member states affected by disasters, and this is one of the few occasions when the european union acts as a pooling body rather than a retaliation body. while each country could activate the mechanism to deal with cases of force majeure, today you want to take control, on the grounds that the covid-19 crisis requires a reorganization of the mechanism. in reality, you are using covid-19 to allow the commission to seize a small amount of freedom that the member states still had. worse still, the commission wants to sell the mechanism to third countries at a discount. what are they? the proposal is intentionally kept vague, going far beyond the few nations of the european economic area. yes to solidarity actions for the peoples of europe and no to your confiscation!
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, behind this technical issue of collecting data on co2 emissions from maritime transport is in fact a major issue of the green deal for europe, but also of the european recovery plan. major in two subjects in particular. the first concerns the decarbonisation of the sector. for several years now, the international maritime organisation has been working on the ecological and energy transition of maritime transport, but at an insufficient pace in view of the challenges involved, in particular the expected increase in emissions of 50-250% by 2050, as has been mentioned. it is all the more important to send a strong signal to the commission and, beyond that, to the international maritime organisation. in fact, in this world's largest market, europe, 90% of goods are transported by sea. i can testify that when sailing, especially in the english channel, the procession of cargo ships is impressive! i welcome the fact that the text gives quantified emission reduction targets (40% by 2030) and i invite the commission to set a baseline year that takes into account the data collected, i.e. 2018. i also urge him not to forget the maritime sector in the recovery plan. pan-european projects are emerging and will give a competitive edge over green shipbuilding. the second major issue is the inclusion of shipping in the carbon market. this is important because the proceeds from this enlarged market will feed the own resources which are essential for the european recovery plan. this is also important because the ocean fund we are proposing to set up will not only help decarbonise the sector, but also finance the restoration of marine and coastal ecosystems, which make a massive contribution to carbon sequestration. finally, i believe that this text is part of a global strategic vision that europe must be built with the sea, our common good and our future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 350 is the number of ships, of cargo ships, that pass almost under my windows in brittany and that will join the procession across the channel, as my colleague catherine chabaud said. when i see them or i guess them a little far away, i wonder what they're emitting. with this regulation and following the prescriptions of the international maritime organisation, we will be able to find out. beyond knowing, monitoring and monitoring, we will be able to take real action on the reduction of greenhouse gases in this sector, which is voluntary, with this ambitious target of a 40% reduction by 2030, as proposed by our colleague the rapporteur. beyond that - and i think that is the meaning of some of the elements in this report - we want to ensure that this does not affect the competitiveness of our fleet. tomorrow, among these 350 ships, we shall still find a considerable number of european ships. that is why it is a good proposal.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, since the beginning of this mandate, certain groups, under the benevolent eye of the commission, have shown a mad desire to interfere in a royal domain par excellence, which belongs only to nations, that of defence. after trying to divert funds to lose them in a european defence fund, which would support armaments programmes without an operational need for staff to validate them, they are trying with this text to regulate arms exports. any pretext is good for snatching the last vestiges of sovereignty from the states. what blindness! the world is more uncertain than ever. in the mediterranean, this historical, economic and cultural area, tensions are brewing which will shape our future. the european union is demonstrating its inability to act; the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, and a political union of peoples. threatened by turkey, it is france which, by its sovereign policy of exporting arms, in the autonomous areas of its army and navy, delivers the rafale to greece in record time. each time, the news has shown the absurdity of these plans. we will continue to oppose this centralising, reductive and debilitating vision of the peoples of the nations and their parliaments, the only legitimate centres of political decision-making.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr borrell, tell me how the european union can still be credible in its human rights speeches if its own member states continue to export weapons used against populations to war zones, sometimes under the pretext of security, often in reality for economic purposes. how can we accept that in my country and elsewhere a defence minister can hide behind a lack of transparency to deny that french arms are involved in the perpetuation of war crimes, particularly in yemen? the current situation is unacceptable. we expect the von der leyen commission and the german presidency to come up with a real strategy to bring this to an end. i would remind you that seven of the world's top ten arms exporters are european. this is another reason to demand that no european weapon can be used against civilian populations anywhere in the world. the most complete transparency must be established. the european union must no longer turn a blind eye to these scandals. finally, let us be consistent in our words and deeds.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, recent history in georgia calls for a balanced and cautious policy towards tbilisi. i remember the international community's astonishment at the terrible consequences for georgia of the 2008 defeat, following the adventures of mr mikheil saakashvili, who then left the country to join ukraine. i doubt that we have learned the painful lesson of this experience, because the european union is no longer seeking to improve its relations with the members of the eastern partnership, but to award them the good or bad points of atlanticism. the serbian government recently announced that it was stopping the joint military exercise "slavic brotherhood" with russia and belarus, due to pressure from the european union. at the same time, the military exercise "noble partner" was opened in georgia under the auspices of nato and brought together 2,800 soldiers with the participation of the french army. when will we finally free ourselves from american tutelage? will we continue to entrust the fate of part of our continent to an organization which is rightly described as brain-dead and whose action is sometimes reduced to increasing provocations against russia in order to support the diminishing superiority of the united states?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, at the time of the first prayer led by erdoğan in hagia sophia, which has been converted into a mosque, the churches of greece sounded the death knell. turkey is not doing its job: illegal drilling in the territorial waters of cyprus, blackmail and extortion of funds with migrants used as a bargaining chip and means of pressure on the european union, objective complacency with jihadism in syria and libya, massacre of kurds, our allies in the fight against daesh. on september 5th, 40 turkish tanks took up position along the evros river, our external border. speaking of his greek neighbour, the turkish president said: 'they will understand that turkey has the political, economic and military power to tear up the immoral cards and documents imposed.' on 30 august, he added: "when it comes to fighting, we will not hesitate to give martyrs". we can't say we didn't know. i would like to ask the commission and parliament not to bow to the demands and threats of the turkish leader. this attitude of submission leads to continuing to negotiate a process of accession with a regime which does not share any of the common values you have been bragging about for a long time. a submission that leads to paying the erdogan regime to keep the migrants he himself gathers at our doors. a submission that leaves greece virtually on its own. before it's too late, before this turkey commits the irreparable, regain some dignity and courage. enough with the words, do! let us put an immediate end to the customs union which is costing our countries billions in lost revenue. finally, and above all, let us stop this accession process, which is nothing but a sign of capitulation to the delusions of this totalitarian regime. europeans, wake up! the european union is not a party to the conflict.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, the conflict in the eastern mediterranean is a european conflict, and it is a european conflict in many ways: in matters of european sovereignty, in the eu's failed migration policy and in the solution to the cyprus problem. turkey must immediately stop its provocation and military gestures and enter a phase of de-escalation and political dialogue. and directly to president erdoğan, who is certainly listening very carefully here today: the ottoman empire no longer exists, even if you have not yet realized it. in order to create the conditions for a successful dialogue and conflict resolution, turkey must immediately stop the illegal drilling in greek and cypriot territorial waters and accept international law and the law of the sea. in order to emphasize this demand, mr minister of state, i call on the member states to impose an immediate halt to arms exports to turkey. the eu-turkey deal, this shameful agreement made on the backs of refugees, must be stopped. the european union must finally reform its migration policy, which respects asylum and human rights, as the events and images from moria show. the announced turkish settlement policy in varosha, cyprus, is further hindering a solution to the cyprus problem. the peace talks must be resumed immediately, taking into account the negotiating position reached at the crans-montana conference on cyprus, in order to achieve a peaceful solution to the cyprus conflict. and again directed to president erdoğan: turkey can be a lasting partner of the eu if it makes a fundamental change in its policy in the eastern mediterranean.
mr. president, being neighbors doesn't necessarily mean being friends. friends respect and help each other, not threaten or blackmail each other. turkey and europe are neighbours, but we have long ceased to be friends. twenty years ago a path was opened for turkey to join the european union, but erdogan has betrayed our friendship, closed that door and erected a wall in front of it. erdogan likes our money, but he doesn't like our values. if you do not respect the rights of the turkish people, how can you expect us to respect ours? erdogan has cut off the road to a european turkey. what is happening in cyprus, in lesbos, on the greek-turkish border, is an unacceptable tragedy. such things should not happen in europe and such things do not happen between friends. that is why i welcome the immediate visit made by vice-president schinas to the moria camp in the first few days. because the migration problem is not a greek problem, it is a european problem. turkey has made provocation its instrument for destabilizing europe; not greece, not cyprus, for destabilizing europe. yesterday it was refugees being used as weapons. they may be again tomorrow. today they are the drilling ships in greek waters. the next council can therefore only send a clear message to erdogan: greece and cyprus are part of the european family. we're not gonna leave them alone, we're gonna defend them. we will always be at the negotiating table, but whoever blackmails, threatens or extorts from a country in the european union must know that he is blackmailing, threatening or extorting from all of us.
mr president, our relations with turkey are the biggest challenge on the european union’s external borders at the moment. illegal drilling activities in the eastern mediterranean are the latest layer added to this complex foreign-policy question. member states have very different policy stances towards turkey. from finalising trade deals, to calling to completely halt the european union integration path of turkey. this would have immense consequences on turkish citizens that see the european union as one of the rare possibilities to change their worsening situation for the better. but we cannot remain silent when turkey as a member of nato is threatening with casus belli to our member states and questioning their territorial integrity. greek and cypriot borders are our external borders. we should first and foremost call for a de-escalation of tensions and dialogue. it is clear that in order to allow the dialogue to advance, turkey has to refrain from unilateral actions. but we must also support the call for further sanctions against turkey, in the case that erdoğan continues with this action. i do hope that leaders can draw common conclusions, also when it comes to defining our policy towards turkey in general. to conclude, this situation is also a good reminder to continue strengthening the european defence union and our common resilience.
mr president, turkey is a member of nato and the council of europe and a candidate for membership of the european union. as such, it receives significant eu funding, participates in a customs union with the eu and in european programmes in the fields of research, education and culture. europe, which has no responsibility for the causes of the syrian tragedy, is massively supporting turkey in welcoming millions of refugees on its soil. and yet, you are. the turkish military presence in syria, decided without consultation, weakens our fight against daesh. in libya, turkey is exporting weapons and mercenaries in defiance of security council resolutions. in the eastern mediterranean it threatens and provokes greece and cyprus. the record is no better within nato. ankara has bought russian military equipment, blocked the baltic states' defense plans and threatened allied ships. i also do not want to ignore the human rights violations suffered by countless turkish citizens. i have a special thought for ebru timtik, who died in prison for demanding a fair trial, or for osman kavala, who has been detained for more than 1000 days and whose only crime is to love the freedom of the turkish people more than his own. we are here representing the people of europe. these people believe in respect for international law, respect for human rights and demand respect for themselves. the government of recep tayyip erdoğan, which is never short of insults aimed at europe, is deliberately turning its back on us. yes, we want a de-escalation in the mediterranean. yes, there must be negotiation, but first and foremost, let us stand united behind greece and cyprus as well as behind our values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is 15 september 2020 and i sense in this house concern about the behaviour of turkey, the behaviour of erdogan. we have shouted this concern, we have voted it, we have urged it with a critical conscience in this house, when 9 billion dollars were given to turkey, when someone supported the project of bringing islamic turkey into europe. i wonder why there were no such concerns then. even when the league, when the opposition in this house, when the critical conscience in this house tried to awaken the conscience of the philanthropists in europe about the 9 billion given to europe, we were branded as nationalists, fascists, racists, xenophobes, in other words all the possible and imaginable adjectives. it is hard to believe that this is being done seriously, that anyone is really concerned, because in april, five months ago, a financing of 3.200 million was approved and allocated to turkey. five months ago, when someone asked for resources for the covid-19 emergency, there was no money: turkey was 3.200 million. when someone was asked to pay more taxes, there was money for turkey, for the same turkey that bombed the kurds, the turkey that was with islamic extremism, the turkey that is with haftar, with the libyan government and dictatorship, which at this moment holds italian workers hostage. i ask the whole house to help us, i ask president sassoli, instead of going off on the undersigned with a ten-day suspension and a 5000 euro fine for throwing turkish chocolate on the ground and saying no to turkey in europe, i ask president sassoli and the whole house to help us free our fellow citizens. we have italian workers being held hostage in libya right now: help us free our workers.
i would like to make it very clear to you once again: firstly, you have greatly overrun your speaking time, and secondly, it is not permitted by the rules of procedure in this house for you to hold up banners. the first time was very brief, but you repeated it over and over again. that is against the rules of procedure and i would ask and urge you never to do that again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the eastern mediterranean, turkey and some of the union's member states are in danger of triggering a military escalation to secure their natural gas exploitation. we will not solve this situation with a simple military strike. mr erdoğan is demonstrating a new degree of unilateralism by seeking to intimidate his own nato allies and members of the european union. this behaviour is rooted in his unquestioned power in turkey and we must therefore, more than ever, support the vibrant democratic forces in turkey. i condemn mr erdoğan's unilateralism but i also regret the subject of this dispute. i am addressing all the parties concerned here: we are going to a confrontation between allied countries for the exploitation of non-renewable resources, which pollute and accelerate global warming. natural gas is not our future and it is unfortunate that this impasse is already leading to such disagreements with our neighbours. i call for a genuine dialogue with turkey. the 27 and the union must stand by greece and cyprus and defend a firm but environmentally sound position, taking into account the needs of all the people.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to debate once again the role of turkey, instead of answering the following questions: what is the role of the european union in the eastern mediterranean? what is our foreign policy towards turkey? for too long the turkish president has been playing a cat and mouse game with europe. syria, libya, the illegal drilling of the oil fields... we must put an end to the ambiguity. some say that the day before yesterday he pulled his turkish ship out of greek waters. is that enough? can we trust him? the health crisis has given rise to the recovery plan, which is a sign of a mature europe that wants to avoid the mistakes of the past. the political crisis must also give rise to a common diplomacy to ensure our security and protect our european sovereignty. as the president of the french republic has said, we must build this mediterranean peace not just with words but with deeds. the fate of europe, ladies and gentlemen, is linked to the fate of the mediterranean. it is urgent that the european union and its policies assert themselves.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, i know belarus from the many election observation missions i have been able to carry out in the country over the last 15 years. at each election, protests denounce the methods of the state and protest the treatment of the opposition. while it is not new to see belarusian society shaken by the results and the conduct of the elections, what constitutes a real change is the scale and determination of these demonstrations. should we listen to the anger of these protesters? yes, of course, i'm sure. should we take advantage of their anger to try to manipulate certain minds? i don't think he is. the european union must prevent another maidan in belarus. the sad fate of ukraine since this episode influenced from abroad is proof enough that only through dialogue will we succeed in restoring justice and calm in this country. yes, violence must be avoided. yes, we must release the people who have been arrested. but let us instead help belarus to start a genuine national dialogue between the various parties. i think that's the only way to make progress and bring peace to this country.
mr president, i would like to say to the russian president: you have a choice, mr putin, but do the right thing. you can of course snatch a union agreement from a down-on-his-luck lukashenko and thus integrate belarus into russia, but you would only lose that country as you lost ukraine by annexing crimea. do not do that, mr president. do not do it, because the belarusians do not want to break with your country, because nato does not want to expand through this crisis, because all the countries of the european union want a compromise in minsk and because you would grow and russia would grow by becoming peacemakers in belarus. with this gesture, mr putin, you would lay the foundations for cooperation between the european union and the russian federation and change the course of a too long history of mistrust and conflict. there's still time, mr. putin, but if you're going to make a good choice, make it and make it fast.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr high representative, thank you very much for being here with us today. it is not without reason that we have to recall all the sad events that took place on 4 august and which have been repeated, incidentally, with a new fire in the port of lebanon. the august 4 bombing killed the secretary general of kataeb - a member party of lebanon's associated european people's party - nazar najarian. a man who fought for democracy and freedoms in lebanon his whole life. this is not new, since the european people's party is the only european party which has always been firmly committed to having a presence, not only vocal as we are all doing now for the cause of lebanon, but also pragmatic, with the inclusion of these parties as our partners. these parties of ours have always systematically denounced the corruption of the system. that is why many of them have not wanted to participate, because they have always denounced that behind the corruption in the case of lebanon is undoubtedly the hand, the foreign interference of syria and iran through hezbollah. i have no doubt about the efforts being made by european countries - and it does not take emmanuel macron to show solidarity with lebanon, which is such a close country, so dear to us europeans, that we are all in agreement - and i am convinced that the political forces will also support the efforts of the commission and the council, also in terms of the money being given at the moment to the cause and to help the lebanese people. but i wanted to ask you, mr borrell, about the hezbollah issue. what are we gonna do? numerous countries, of course, have put it on the list of terrorist organizations. does the european union have any opinion on this?
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the state of greater lebanon. yet, lebanon 2020 is not part of the party. he is going through a series of crises that cannot leave us indifferent. i would like to commend the commitment of french president emmanuel macron, on behalf of france but also of the whole of europe, who has proved to the lebanese people that they are not alone. more than anyone else, our parliament must hear the aspirations of the angry lebanese people, who know what they want and, above all, what they no longer want. the lebanese people are tired of the corruption that is rampant in the country. we need an international and independent investigation into the explosion in beirut port and an end to impunity. not only must european aid reach the people it supports, but we must also insist that the lebanese anti-corruption body finally become operational. we will also have to look at the ill-gotten lebanese assets lying dormant in european banks. we can't keep looking the other way. the lebanese people can no longer be represented by a political class that fights only for its own survival and its own privileges. its civil society is dynamic and courageous and must be able to make its voice heard. it's our duty to help him. we should therefore support technically and financially the establishment of a national consultation platform. lebanon is much more than a small country in the eastern mediterranean. lebanon has always been a promise: a promise of reconciliation between the religions and communities of the middle east, a promise of a free, educated and prosperous society. the survival of that promise and its victory over the forces that would stifle it depends very much on us.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr borrell, given the notorious problems of corruption and abuse of power by the lebanese political leadership, what concrete measures is the european union taking to genuinely ensure that humanitarian aid is effectively delivered to those who need it most in lebanon, including vulnerable groups such as refugees, migrant workers, women, children, the elderly and the disabled? many ngos, not just lebanese, complain that international aid often does not reach the people who really need it, but disappears into the pockets of corrupt elites. some ngos suggest that we should combine this aid with concrete guarantees to fight corruption and support reform demands. what do you think of that? indeed, until reforms are implemented, the risk of disasters such as the fire that destroyed red cross aid equipment will not be over. we must help the lebanese to carve this raw gem of the east by getting rid of corruption and building their democracy and freedom. i would stress that most lebanese seem satisfied and grateful for the strong involvement of the french president. i ask you then: where is europe in all this? what role does it play or does it not play in lebanon? how can europe support reforms? the president of the european council, charles michel, visited beirut on 8 august and the european commissioner for crisis management, janez lenarčič, on 12 september. mr. borrell, when are you going to lebanon? when did the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen, plan to visit lebanon, which fairuz sang about [phrase in arabic], 'the dignified lebanon and its fighting people' with whom we must stand?
mr president, since 4 august, lebanon has been experiencing a succession of fires after this explosion. we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that this date marks the beginning of the agony of this beloved country of europe and france. europe must do everything possible, first of all to guarantee the neutrality of lebanon, a country which has suffered in all the conflicts in the region. this means finally pushing hezbollah to accept the disarmament of the militias provided for in the un conventions, which will allow this country to regain its sovereignty by getting rid of foreign interference. europe must finally punish the members of this corrupt political class who have sold out their country's sovereignty. we must turn words into action today and the fight against corruption and the tracing of european aid must finally become an effective reality. finally, europe must demand this international inquiry which will make it possible to identify the real culprits behind this devastating explosion and the crimes it has caused. today, lebanon is at peace or the middle east is in chaos. let us remember that europe was born in this country, as the mythology tells us.
mr president, we can only be pleased to see lebanon on the agenda of our parliamentary debates today, since the images of 4 august have affected the world. france, with its friendship and historical ties, was the first to offer support to the lebanese people in this humanitarian and economic tragedy. it is now in the interest of all of us to ensure that lebanon, the crossroads of all political and religious tensions, does not sink into a crisis that would sow the seeds of a new civil war. the christian quarter of beirut, the beating heart of the city, is now a pile of ruins, a symbol we must consider. while throughout the middle east, christian minorities are more threatened than ever, the peace and stability of a country where they enjoy relative tolerance is more vital than ever. we know that the european union is most reluctant to invoke its roots, but france has a mission here imposed by its history and with which it cannot break without betraying itself: to protect the christians of the east. the economic and logistical support we must offer lebanon is beyond question. it must be up to date and i have no doubt that it is something we will all probably agree on.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, no, we don't know who ordered this crime, but we do know that opposition is a deadly disease under mr. putin. so let's leave the question of who, because the only question is why. the russian regime is no longer in control. in the east, the protests in khabarovsk are not stopping, while in the west, every sunday, belarus takes to the streets to demand its freedom. as oil prices plummet and coffers empty, living standards are falling in russia and even syria. mr. putin has been left alone since the assad clan split and the iranian theocracy lost its footing. so this regime is afraid because as victor hugo said, "nothing is more imminent than the impossible". communist poland had not seen solidarity coming, mr lukashenko had not felt the anger rising around him and anything can happen in this powder keg that russia is becoming. so, yes, mr. putin, you are right to be afraid and, before it is too late, before trouble comes to your country and you are cornered by something worse than this poisoning, facilitate a compromise in belarus, withdraw from ukraine, give the russian people their freedom, let them breathe rather than make them cry one after another the best and bravest of his children, mr. navalny poisoned and all your opponents disappeared.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr high representative, for once i found your position perfectly balanced. yes, of course, we all wish mr navalny a speedy recovery. yes, we want an independent investigation first and foremost and we are waiting to find out who the real culprit is. when i listen, there are people in this house who are demonizing russia all day long and already know the results of the investigation before it even starts. some are warmongers who have not waited a day to call for new sanctions against russia. these cold war nostalgists want to use all the drama to start a new east-west confrontation. but the war-mongers and war-mongers have forgotten one thing: russia is a signatory to the chemical weapons convention. novichok has been included in the opcw protocol since last year. the international investigation is therefore provided for in international law, except that the law provides that the first investigation is to be carried out first by russia, which, until proven otherwise, is a sovereign state. russia is neither below nor above international law. neither do the warmongers and the soothsayers in the european parliament. let's wait for the results of a real investigation.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, minister, commissioner, european citizens have been exemplary in their fight against covid-19. they courageously faced a serious health threat. they have paid the heavy economic, social and psychological toll of the lockdown. now they have been caught all summer in the chaos at the internal borders of the european union, subject to unilateral decisions to control or restrict movement on the basis of disparate mapping and mutual non-recognition of biological tests. yesterday tourists, tomorrow cross-border workers, students, artists. this disorganization will have repercussions not only on health but also on the economy, science and culture. freedom of movement within the schengen area cannot be threatened constantly. the health crisis must not be used as an excuse for national selfishness and lack of solidarity. commissioner, the european union must quickly adopt common epidemiological criteria and comparable colour codes, we have seen that we are on the right track. mr minister for european affairs, it is urgent to organise a consultation with your counterparts on concerted and, if possible, common health recommendations. it is not a question of budget, it is a question of political will. european citizens are looking at us, they want more than a juxtaposition of national health measures, they want a genuine european public health policy.
madam president, the consequences of covid, let's talk about it. protocol no 6, single article: 'the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg'. this is what is written in the european treaties. yet at the last minute, meps were asked to come to brussels as there were twice as many new cases of covid-19 there. but strasbourg was ready. however, strict measures have been put in place in taxis, hotels, restaurants and pedestrian streets. there was even some work done in parliament this summer. but we know that the majority of french environmentalists voted against strasbourg. however, brussels has been classified as a red zone since august and you have caved in to the pressure of the greens and the socialists, who have never liked coming to strasbourg because they live in brussels. using the coronavirus or co2 emissions to blow up the strasbourg headquarters is unacceptable. when we commit ourselves to a mandate, we respect the law and the law says that the seat of the european parliament is in strasbourg for 12 sessions. we want the year 2021 to make up for this loss for strasbourg. before giving a european road map, let us set an example here by respecting the treaties.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam president von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, in order to describe the state of the union accurately and to give it a suitable political direction, we must also be clear about the dramatic situation in which it finds itself. we must also be clear about the social crisis that is striking, tackling the first toiling, who have become the first victims of companies like sanofi or auchan, who are firing after getting rich thanks to the pandemic. we must also be clear about the growing inequality crisis, when the world's 25 richest billionaires, including many europeans, saw their fortunes increase by more than 200 billion between march and may. we must also be clear about the crisis of european solidarity, when a small number of tax havens are plundering their neighbours by organising tax evasion on an industrial scale. we must also be aware of the accelerating ecological crisis and the multiplication of alarming warning signs: wildfires, the multiplication of heatwaves which are becoming more frequent, as this week, and a declining biodiversity. we must also be clear about the moral crisis that is poisoning us: it is the european union's own decline that the european union is coldly looking at in the flames that are ravaging the migrant camp in moria. we must also be clear about the crisis of the rule of law which is fracturing the european union, while poland and hungary continue to sink into abject authoritarianism where minorities are in danger. it is this lucidity that you lack terribly, mrs von der leyen. these crises, which you do not see, affect the lives of hundreds of millions of women and men who, although they did not elect you, have the right to expect you to provide concrete answers. in the face of these uncertainties, mrs von der leyen, it is the privilege of the leaders because it is the daily life of the citizens that is made of anxiety. they don't want to hear empty slogans and they can't stand your contradictions. today you are announcing with great fanfare a new target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030; but it is already well below the 65 percent scientifically required to meet the paris agreement. how dare you further undermine that goal by a gimmick, by deducting emissions from carbon sinks, like forests? this is an irresponsible choice, mrs von der leyen. to save humanity from global warming, we need to reduce our emissions, not rig the books. you promise industrial sovereignty, but you continue to negotiate free trade agreements with mexico, china, mercosur and so many others. you are claiming to be revising the budgetary control mechanism, but you are preparing to demand from the states benefiting from the recovery plan the implementation of further austerity reforms that nobody wants. you borrow the word resilience and talk about new indicators of progress, but your policy still seeks growth at all costs. no one is fooled, mrs von der leyen. if your words change gradually, your recipes remain the same: free trade, austerity and competition, the same recipes that have brought us to the brink of the abyss. to meet the urgency of the moment, everything must change: our only compass must be the ecological and social bifurcation. it must be based on public planning and the massive creation of sustainable jobs in transport, freight, building insulation and the energy transition. it must be financed by restoring tax justice, taxing those who profit from the crisis, taxing the richest people and ending european tax havens. mrs von der leyen, you spoke for more than one hour and twenty minutes in that speech. at no time did you mention tax justice, taxing the richest, tax havens in the european union, which are now plaguing the social justice of this union. finally, this bifurcation cannot take place without a contribution from the european central bank, at least by cancelling the public debts it holds. it must be launched now, as part of an ambitious recovery plan where every euro of public money is conditional on social and ecological counterparts for employment and the climate. enough of the blank checks given to big corporations that pollute and lay off workers to satisfy their ever-greedier shareholders. once again, let's be clear about this. this bifurcation will not happen by magic, by crossing our fingers so that the invisible hand of the market naturally repairs what it has destroyed. so, mrs von der leyen, if you want to get out of uncertainty, you must finally accept to shake your certainties.
mr president, president von der leyen, thank you. thank you for your ideas, your initiatives and your proposals. the proposals made by the european commission over the course of last year and adopted by the european parliament have saved lives in europe, have helped care for people in need, treat people affected by the virus and helped overcome the crisis. now is the time to start further strengthening the union, further building the european union, making it fitter for the future – a union which is open, which is inclusive, which cares for those in need, and in which we can all strive; a union in which we are all winning, in which people can strive, in which enterprises can innovate, can develop, in which countries are helping each other. to achieve this we need the right tools. the main tool in order to achieve our objectives is the budget of the european union. the budget is the holy grail to fulfilling our commitments. without an ambitious budget all our commitments on greening, digital, helping young people, helping farmers, better protecting our borders, remain only empty words. what shall we do? now is the time to equip the european union with own sources of revenue – own resources. own resources mean a stronger, a more stable, a more solid european union. we must put in place own resources as early as the year 2021 to help pay back for the costs of the crisis and to help deliver to the people what we have promised. own resources means that we can finance the traditional priorities of the european union and we can also finance new priorities of the european union – we can invest in research, in innovation, we can help farmers, we can protect all of our borders. it means that we can deliver on what people are expecting from the european union. madam president, one year from now on we will all remember the hard times but we will be judged by our actions. this is why i kindly request that you stand with us, stand with the european parliament, to equip the union with an ambitious budget, with a strong budget so we can deliver what people are expecting from us.
mr president, madam president, we are at a crucial moment for the future of europe. as you said, if we want it to remain a key player on the international scene, we must give ourselves the means to do so, today and tomorrow. the recovery plan is a major step and seems to be moving in the direction of solidarity, but it is cyclical. it must not hide the weakness or the limitations of the future european budget. the union needs a strong multiannual budget, which implies the financial means to finance it, including the creation of several own resources, the most important of which is the financial transaction tax. we must also rely on the rule of law, without which the european union would not exist. yes, we must collectively overcome this unprecedented crisis and seize this moment to make the union the spearhead of a profound transformation of our societies towards greater social and environmental well-being for all. yes, there is a climate emergency. yes, there is a social emergency and we collectively no longer have the right to make mistakes. that is why we demand not only clarity from your commission and your college, but also, madam president, boldness for all and especially for the most deprived.
mr president, madam president of the commission, i would first of all like to say to my colleagues that we must not allow the division that the extreme right and the extreme left of this house are trying to create to take place, namely that there would be the lucid ones, those who had seen things, and then the eurobieans, those who see nothing, those who are for europe, who include the socialists up to the epp. i think it's pretty dangerous to do that reading. moreover, lucidity was first and foremost about making proposals in this crisis. i have not heard much from either the far-left or the far-right groups in this house. it is important to remember this in this debate which is important for the future of europe. moreover, this crisis and this year will have both puzzled and surprised us, both in the way they have unfolded, both because the health crisis has blocked all our institutions, including our own functioning. of course, the measures to re-establish the borders are measures which have also surprised us, in the way in which they have been implemented. and then, mrs von der leyen, as this year, the commission has surprised and confused us. surprised, because i think the pact you initiated with the franco-german agreement is up to the task. i think the answers in your speech are also up to par. but we must also see - and i will return to the elements of lucidity - our fragility both institutional and organizational and in the way this crisis has unfolded. we have been elected for a year now and very few pieces of legislation have come out of the commission today. so there was covid-19, sure, but i don't know what national parliament would wait a year before seeing a legislative program come in. so there is urgency today and i see in your speech a willingness for this coming year, which i wish to see, to accelerate the reforms and to accelerate the urgency that we have been carrying since the beginning of this mandate.
mr. chairman, i am upset with you. not so much because you have been here today, with so much fire, expressing your hatred for people, human beings, all of whom you have conveniently called the far right. i am angry because i want to convey the words of millions of europeans about the way things are going. if i add up the number of dogmas you have produced here today, i can speak of a religious speech, a religious speech in the cathedral of democracy, with much pomp, but still a scandal. it is a scandal that you have turned that european union platform, which should be a form of free cooperation between free nations, into a more integrated, immigration-fuelled, unitary state than ever before. that's why i'm transferring that anger. we are angry. despite the united kingdom's 88 billion euro reduction in its contribution, you have increased the multiannual financial framework and, together with the crown fund, you have in fact doubled the resources and therefore the political projects of this european union. that is unacceptable. you are making the european continent something we did not want.
president. - mrs van der leyen made a speech of a castro-like format, i should say, but it was told in fairy tale form. when i hear all these plans, i always ask myself as a calvinist: who's going to pay for that? - what? who's gonna pay for that? well, that's paid for by european taxes, so the citizen. and you're going to introduce new european taxes. fortunately, there are still the member states, because they have to approve these taxes, that is, in national parliaments and in the netherlands in the first and second chambers. and then i ask myself: what is the position of the vvd and the cda? mr azmani has just spoken. i haven't heard from him yet about how he's gonna pay for it. he cheers and then says nothing. mrs. de lange, what about your party? i don't know which blood type to ask, but where are you standing? and i would urge you to stop saying one thing in the netherlands and voting for the other in brussels. say what you do and do what you say. it's just a suggestion.
mr president the union's daily life is fraught with serious internal divisions, rather than the mutual trust it hoped for. these divisions are reconciling the lives of hundreds of millions of european citizens. the union has lost its leading role in the world as a result. if we don't face this fundamental problem, this deep internal division, then all our plans will be wishful thinking. i therefore wish to make three proposals to overcome the divisions which weaken the union. first of all, the political and ideological cold war and the double standard between member states must come to an end. it is shameful when a member state that has successfully defended against the coronavirus pandemic, protecting people's lives and health, is attacked by eu institutions and politicians on the basis of vulgar lies. secondly, the european commission should make proposals to eliminate the institutional divisions within the union. to promote the freedom of work for citizens of all eu member states, with equal access to the opportunity to work freely in other countries. the commission should, without delay, propose to eliminate the competition disadvantages that discriminate against smes in central and eastern europe, such as in the field of transport and logistics, leading to fragmentation. and a decision on the accession of bulgaria, croatia and romania to the schengen area must be taken immediately. despite decades of eu membership, the citizens of these countries are still excluded from the schengen system. this situation is a sad symbol of the division of the union. and thirdly, the european commission should finally put forward new legislative proposals, particularly on climate protection, the so-called social pillar and immigration, which do not lead to new and even deeper divisions, to further ideological debates, but which enjoy broad support from the member states and the eu institutions.
mr president, we like to speak about the union’s value-driven soft power. we are proud to be a model, a positive force for the world and standing up for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. but how long can we keep up that image if we fail to apply those standards to ourselves? how can we speak about protecting human rights when thousands of people, many who fled war, are now going through the most inhumane misery on the greek islands? when we hear phrases being used like ‘protecting frontline countries and our borders’, i believe we have forgotten who the real victims are here. how can we speak about supporting the fight for democracy in belarus when we do nothing when our own member states are turning into autocracies? the next eu budget must have an insurance policy against our own autocrats. president von der leyen, we expect you to protect our citizens but also to protect our values.
mr president, it is a pity that mr bay is no longer here, he who is lecturing everyone, even on the financing of the recovery fund, at a time when it is he, mr salvini, mrs le pen and their austrian friends who are receiving money from mr putin. maybe he can take care of paying mr. putin back. i personally find it scandalous that people like that are giving us lessons, while they are getting money to destroy the european union. maybe that's what he's doing, i guess, because he's not here anymore. my proposal, ms von der leyen, is that you repeat these 75 minutes of your speech, that i liked a lot, in the council. because let's be honest, half of the issues that you raised are in fact blocked in the council. when we talk about migration, the tragedy in the moria camp. that is the consequence of the impossibility to reform dublin, to reform the migration policy. when we talk about belarus, it's 40 days after these elections were stolen by lukashenko and we are not capable of putting sanctions on the table 40 days later. when we're talking about turkey drilling in the eastern mediterranean, in greek waters, no sanction, no action at all. when we talk about hong kong, when we talk about the minority of the uighurs, words yes, but sanctions no, action no. and when we talk about the rule of law inside the european union, let's be honest, it's been 5...6 years that we've been talking about that here in europe and in the european parliament. there are no sanctions against these authoritarian regimes. so my plea to you, is to repeat this as quickly as possible, or in 75 minutes in the council and let's make a pact, a deal between us, that that is the priority for 2021 next to the recovery fund, mr frans timmermans, and to the green deal, naturally. that is the priority. to end unanimity, to have a magnitsky or navalny act as mr borrell named it. and to have a real rule of law mechanism, because i don't want it to be that at the end, in a few years, we are calling you not the geopolitical commission, but the geominimal commission - that i want to avoid. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, madam president, dear friends, you said in your speech at one point: 'it is fortunate that we had digital technology during the crisis.' i thought, at that moment, "luckily we also had a number of jobs", the so-called everyday jobs: nurses, garbage men, delivery men, people who occupied the stores. yes, they have been very helpful. as you said, for these people, work doesn't pay. but for others, he pays. for others, the rent pays, the financial transactions pay, the destruction of the environment pays. in your speech, you said everything we had to do. there is one point which i think we have not emphasized enough: it is the question of revenue. i have a message for you: if we want an ambitious europe, if we want to have the means to do our work, those who are currently avoiding taxes must pay taxes. there is a tax you didn't mention, the financial transaction tax. it's been talked about for years. it is a fair tax, which saves ordinary citizens money, who cannot escape the tax. so, madam president, as our friend mr verhofstadt has said, tell the council that this house will not tolerate the absence of new own resources to finance all that we have to finance.
mr president, madam president, your speech sets ambitious objectives, but if we do not take the necessary steps, they will remain calls for action without a future. europe's vulnerability to the health crisis should be a lesson to us. you have called for an ethic of new technologies and digital technology, but if we do not invest in our countries to regain their strategic autonomy, we will be the satellites of the technological powers of tomorrow. you mentioned the challenge of migration. of course, the tragedies taking place in the mediterranean should keep us all awake at night, but the only way to avoid them is to take control of our borders, so that no one tries to enter europe without legal permission. it is our impotence that makes human trafficking thrive and that is why so many people are dying today. you mentioned the ecological emergency. again, how naive it would be to think that we can deal with this global problem only by trying to reform ourselves! of course we can and must produce better, but europe emits 8% of the carbon. if we only impose constraints on those who produce in europe, we will not have made progress in the field of ecology; we'll only have destroyed our economy. it is time to make the single market a lever to enable us to move towards this global ecological transition. this is why the carbon inclusion mechanism is absolutely urgent. finally, you called for hatred not to tear our societies apart, but it will only be possible to resist all that is tearing them apart today if europe embraces what we have in common: a civilization which it is our duty to pass on. only then will it have a future.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, after these almost three hours of debate, i have the impression that we have been in the midst of a deaf dialogue, to be honest. we have spoken to you about social justice, equality, climate change, the fight against tax evasion, and you have replied to us about competitiveness, stability, the single market, fiscal sustainability. but what bothers me most is your lack of honesty. first, because at no point in your speech do you tell us how the stimulus plan will be financed. are you planning to play the euromillions or do you think you have a real plan for own resources at european level? a tax on financial transactions, taxing the richest or ecological dumping is the only way to avoid european citizens paying for the crisis. secondly, ngos are already alerting you, but you're just making up the numbers. your target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 is actually only a 49% target, because you're changing the methodology to include carbon sinks like forests. if you prefer to compare pears to bananas or any other expression , if you continue to make up the accounts, then no one will believe you anymore. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
in writing. since the treaty of lisbon, the state of the union address by the president of the european commission has increasingly resembled a moment of self-congratulation, during which the representative of the executive, now mrs von der leyen, takes stock of the work of the college of commissioners and outlines the way forward. well, this year, marked by the covid-19 crisis, the commission president should avoid praise and self-absolution and acknowledge her total incompetence, demonstrated during the management of the pandemic, in the field of public health as well as for the resulting economic crisis. as regards the health crisis, the commission was conspicuously absent, since under article 168 of the tfeu it was supposed to complement national public health policies and coordinate supplies of medicines and medical devices. as regards the economic crisis, the hamiltonian moment of europe, the creation of a federal debt, with a loan of 750 billion euros on the capital market, marks the beginning of a public debt spiral by an organization that had made budgetary balance its trademark.
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my fellow rapporteurs who have accompanied me in this work. the text we are voting on today and tomorrow reflects our common desire to provide practical answers to the patients, to the families and to the health professionals who are affected by these shortages of medicines. this crisis has highlighted our increasing dependence on third countries, mainly china and india, and the concentration of supply in the hands of a few suppliers. we're finding, but a little late, that public health has become a geostrategic weapon capable of bringing a continent and beyond to its knees. while health is a matter for each member state, it is for the european union to coordinate and complement these national actions. i welcome the announcements made this morning by president ursula von der leyen, who wants to build a true europe of health. i would ask the commission and the member states to accept our proposals which are in this direction. they are based on three pillars: increased cooperation, coordination and harmonization. we propose, in particular, the creation of a european emergency pharmacy and a common basket of priority medicines and vaccines, the extension of the powers of the european medicines agency to make it the regulatory authority guaranteeing greater transparency in the distribution chain, but also at the level of member states' stocks, the repatriation to europe, where possible, of all production lines, by means of fiscal and financial incentives, and finally the creation of one or more european non-profit-making pharmaceutical establishments capable of producing the often essential medicines, which are neglected by the industrialists for lack of profitability. at the same time, of course, we must make europe the continent of the medicine of the future, by investing massively in research and innovation and diversifying our resources. in the european parliament we have taken our responsibilities: we have worked together to provide answers. i now ask member states to do the same and to act collectively. as arnaud danjean said, individual action is completely counterproductive and we have seen it. we need a genuine european pharmaceutical industrial strategy to regain our independence in health and guarantee patient safety.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, thank you for your initiative. we all agree here that we must take a strong stand against sexual abuse of children and we understand that your priority is to combat online child crime. however, i would not like this serious matter to be used to suppress the personal protection of all our fellow citizens. i would like to say that the exploitation of children did not start with the internet. the internet is sometimes only a visible part of sprawling networks of child and human exploitation using children for profit. child crime, sex tourism, child prostitution, domestic abuse did not start with the internet and they are crossing centuries and continents. worse, these juvenile delinquency trials were sometimes allowed, remember this acclaimed writer for his novel about his sexual relationship with a 14-year-old girl, gabriel matzneff. finally, madam commissioner, trafficking also begins with the abandonment of certain children, i am talking about the exiled children, the roma children, who are knowingly removed from the field of child protection. we can no longer accept backroom discussions, all children deserve the protection of europe. and i think that when you protect a child, you gain a citizen.
madam president, this speaker and the previous speaker, what they’re saying amounts to hate speech. to accuse migrants of rape and to accuse them of being islamists setting fire to the camp – this is hate speech. i think that this should not be allowed in this way in this chamber. (loud applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again, since 2015, we have been gravely concerned about immigration. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. that's the truth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a great challenge ahead of us: to succeed, to continue united. there are no magic solutions, but there is only one way: all member states must take action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greek government has taken substantial steps: effective guarding of the external borders, speeding up of asylum procedures, gradual decongestion of the islands and progress in returns. but greece cannot do it alone. the new european asylum system must mark a new era for migration; it must make solidarity binding on all, so that we all take on our responsibilities; it must establish a permanent european return mechanism and a permanent system of resettling refugees, proportionately and on the basis of criteria, in all member states, because it is not always possible for the first host countries alone to bear the burden of managing thousands of people. the immigration issue, ladies and gentlemen, is an essential european asset, and we must not allow it to divide us.
madam president, moria equals europe’s shame. this is how we, the richest continent in the world, in 2020 welcome people fleeing war. not by giving them protection but by stripping them of their human dignity. gerald knaus has rightly referred to the camp as the ‘guantanamo for refugees’, and what happened in moria last week is a shock but not a surprise. moria was a time-bomb waiting to explode, and now 12 000 people lost the only thing they had left: their tents. hope, they had already lost months’ ago. it’s a collective moral failure of the european union by the member states, leaving the burden all on the shoulders of the people living on the greek islands, and some even wanting the misery to be a deterrent for others to arrive. but also by the greek authorities who failed with eur 2.6 billion in financial support to build decent humane reception facilities, and with the coast guard actively engaged in illegal and dangerous push-backs. with some empathy, solidarity and moral authority, we know what has to happen. evacuation and relocation, and not only for the unaccompanied minors. next week, the commission will present its migration pact. commissioner, we count on you. let this finally be the moment of renewal of our principles. with a mandatory relocation of refugees and, as you said, no more morias on european soil ever again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee camp in moria and the whole island of lesbos have become a hopeless hell for everyone: the commission has also adopted a communication on the the camp fire is just the latest episode and a further serious problem for the greek island. the greek authorities, to whom we are all very close, believe that some of the camp's residents were the ones who set the fire, as had already happened in the past, in protest against the situation in the camp. the situation in lesbos is collapsing, as is the case in other border areas of the union, such as our own lampedusa in sicily, in the total inertia of the european authorities. it is a europe that does not act to stop the departures, nor to repatriate the vast majority of immigrants who, unfortunately, are not refugees but irregular migrants, and as such must be expelled. a europe blackmailed by human traffickers, a europe subject to the dictates of erdogan, who uses the blackmail of migration as a weapon of political pressure against europe, combined with an increasingly aggressive military presence throughout the mediterranean. europe must defend itself or it will be too late.
madam president, we have heard hypocritical complaints - and i say this, 'hypocritical complaints' - from the commission in this house. the moria fire is a tragedy long in the making. this is not a coincidence, but a direct consequence of a criminal immigration policy of which the european union is guilty. as well as the deaths in the aegean, the mediterranean or the atlantic. immigration policies that question refugees and migrants' right to have rights; and by questioning their rights, they question the rights of all europeans. we demand the urgent relocation of the more than 13 000 people trapped on lesbos to dignified conditions; the banning of closed camps, which are real open-air prisons; and a radical change in european migration policy so that there will be no more moria camps, no more camps of shame. take action now!
mr president, this is not the first time we have spoken about moria, but it must be the last. poor facilities in overcrowded camps, it's a disgrace to europe. what's the next move? in the short term, that is clear. asylum seekers affected by the fire must be helped quickly and the greek government must be able to count on our support. improved reception in greece and redistribution, including to other member states. it is good that so many member states have already offered help. but for a real solution, we need a truly effective european asylum and migration policy. working with other countries to prevent people without prospects of asylum from undertaking life-threatening journeys on old boats. efficient and fair procedures at our borders to quickly determine whether someone is actually fleeing war. because as the commissioner rightly said: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. proper reception and integration of genuine refugees is absolutely crucial. we need to do much more about that, but at the same time we also really need to make sure that we finally have a system where people who are not granted asylum are actually returned to their country of origin. the support in our society for the reception of vulnerable refugees is high, as we have seen in the aftermath of the fire in moria, and we can be proud of that. it is up to us here in this house, together with the council, which is unfortunately absent, and the european commission, to ensure that this support is not lost in the future.
i have to say, madam president, there is no prospect, no hope, no way out! conditions in moria have long been unbearable for all the people of the island. moria is also a symbol of the failure of all member states to implement our values and international law in solidarity. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is a political wreck. we are waiting for the commission's new migration pact to be adopted shortly. we could sweep up the debris together, make a fresh start. next generation that doesn't mean going on like this with deterrence through undignified conditions, push backs and locking people out. the future of refugees is not the only thing at stake, but our europe, our values. it is therefore all the more important that we get the council moving, that we work together to shape a reform of solidarity. a reform that includes a distribution key, coordinates maritime rescue and does not criminalize it, organises migration and diversity as an opportunity and, above all, prevents a second moria.
commissioner johansson, i want to thank you sincerely for the work you are doing. i think that's commendable. now, with all due respect, i do not know how commissioner schinas can say that moria represents the europe we must change, after five years of putting money from the european institutions into that inhuman creature. i don't know how anyone can think of building another macro-camp on lesbos. i do not know how, after five years, we can think of repeating the scheme, of repeating the system. moriah was hell. even for the greek officials there, it was hell. and we must think of all the people who want refuge in europe and we must also think of the inhabitants of islands like lesbos. because that scheme is socially toxic as well. we do not create another moria from the ashes of moria. no model of migration policy can include the humiliation and humiliation of human beings. and by the way, there is samos, there is chios, and parliament must decide to send an urgent mission to the islands now.
madam president, shame on you, shame on the european governments and their petty pharmacist accounts. twelve thousand human beings, after months of living in filthy and shameful conditions, are now left to fend for themselves on the island of lesbos. and what are european governments doing? they are willing to accept a few dozen isolated miners at a time. the shame. shame on the greek government, which, at this very moment, as refugees are being moved to a new camp, is barring doctors without borders from its clinic. shame on this europe which is unable to welcome the 24 000 asylum seekers stranded on the greek islands. shame on our leaders who for months, years, have remained deaf to our repeated calls for solidarity and their relocation from greece. shame on those in this house who breed fear, who cultivate division, and who overbid by electoral calculations, in defiance of the most basic human rights. shame, but also immense hope. hope, seeing the demonstrations in germany, where european citizens are shouting the truth: we have room. yes, we have room for human beings who represent barely a quarter of the spectators in a football stadium, barely 0.005% of the european population. i am hopeful that the municipalities in france, germany and elsewhere are ready to welcome them. this week, i will be talking to young european citizens who are committed to human rights and who want to change the policies and the speeches of european leaders on immigration. so stop this disgusting talk and these murderous policies in the name of the citizens. stop being ashamed and start wearing hope and solidarity. this is what europe needs more than ever. let us implement lasting solutions to deal with the structural fact of migration, instead of providing miserable responses to a situation that some try to make us believe is only temporary.
author. madam president, hold the line, in french, is the promise that mr. duterte's opponents have courageously, nobly made to themselves. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter of the commission and the council. stand firm because journalists, intellectuals, academics or lawyers, opponents risk not only arrest, but also assassination. hold on, because the prison occupancy rate just reached 534%. dictators are usually outraged by reports that overwhelm them, but mr. duterte, no, on the contrary, he is proud of it, because, to hear him, one should not - especially not - bother with procedures and respect for human rights. he is there, and that is enough since this supreme judge has given himself the right to life and death. history has known another duterte, it was in rome, his name was nero. mr. duterte, to our shame, is the nero of modern times.
madam president, in the philippines, during the so-called war on drugs, more than 27 000 people have been killed and, under the pretext of the fight against terrorism, trade unionists, human rights defenders, activists and journalists such as zara alvarez, maria ressa and leila de lima are attacked, murdered and imprisoned. but apparently these human rights violations are not enough for the right wing of this parliament to demand loudly and clearly the immediate suspension of the privileges granted under the system of generalized preferences, a system which should be conditional on the application of international human rights and labour conventions which are clearly not being fulfilled in the philippines right now. we demand that arms and military equipment be stopped from being traded with the philippines and that trade preferences be suspended immediately until human rights are respected. this has to be done urgently. i got it. let's not wait until tomorrow.
author. – madam president, in the philippines, the situation of citizens, human rights defenders and media representatives has been worsening in recent years. the un high commissioner for human rights’ report of june 2020 found that the killings related to the government’s anti—drug campaign were ‘widespread and systematic’. at least 8 663 people have been killed, according to government data, and some estimations even triple that number. meanwhile, human rights defenders, journalists such as maria ressa and activists routinely face harassment, intimidation and violence for seeking to expose allegations of extrajudicial killings. threats, intimidation, violence, harassment, unfair prosecutions or corruption do not go hand-in-hand with a democratically elected government. today, we call on the republic of the philippines to cease immediately all violence and human rights abuses. the fight against illicit drugs must be pursued in full compliance with due process of law.
the s&d group believes that the extrajudicial executions carried out in the context of the war on drugs and terrorism have increased and continue with impunity. the human rights commission in the philippines estimated that nearly 27,000 people were killed. duterte continues to use this war to eliminate, torture, threaten the actors who get in his way - leaders, farmers, priests, journalists, lawyers - without being held accountable. the latest un report highlights the urgent need for further investigations into these violations. the un human rights council must now set up an independent international mechanism to investigate extrajudicial killings and other violations in the country. but in this climate of repression and terror, local communities no longer dare to seek justice for the violations they have suffered, nor to oppose the government. it is time that we support them, that we help them to do this work. and finally, the question we must also ask ourselves is this: why maintain a preferential regime of access to the european market in the context of this massive repression of human rights? in the philippines today, there are 18,000 women and children working in mines, unprotected, 85,000 children forced to work in agriculture. the gsp has no reason to exist today with the philippines.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their remarks. the eu has expressed its concern about various human rights issues in the philippines on numerous occasions, recently through the eu 27 statement at the human rights council and the february 2020 biennial generalised scheme of preferences report discussed in the european parliament, as well as directly through the authorities, such as during the first joint committee of the partnership and cooperation agreement in january 2020. more specifically on maria ressa’s case, the eu external action service spokesperson issued a statement on 16 june 2020 – so a few months ago – underlining that her conviction raised serious doubts over the respect for freedom of expression, as well as for the rule of law, in the philippines. we expect the philippines, like all countries, to uphold its international human rights obligations and protect and promote fundamental freedoms. with regard to the monitoring of the philippines’ commitment under gsp+, the trade commissioner – you were referring to that, ms neumann – had clearly communicated our concerns to his counterpart in manila, and the philippines’ reply will be taken into account in assessing compliance through the chief gsp+ conditionalities during our bilateral dialogue with the government. the eu remains convinced that both the philippines and the eu have most to gain from constructive engagement. during our january joint committee, we agreed on the establishment of a sub—committee on good governance, rule of law and human rights. this sub—committee, expected to meet regularly, will be an important forum for directly addressing all human rights issues. the external action service has proposed to hold a first meeting already this autumn – by the end of this year – even under a virtual format. so the european commission and the external action service will continue raising these matters with the philippine government in a clear and constructive way.
author. madam president, denis mukwege, gynaecologist and human rights activist, has devoted his life to the fight against sexual violence against women in the east of the drc, his country, his region. for more than 20 years, denis mukwege and his teams have been confronting the worst atrocities against women, girls - and even babies - raped, their genitals mutilated by criminals belonging to armed groups, who use this violence as a weapon of war and mass destruction. more than 55,000 women, girls and children have been treated at panzi hospital since its inception, and unfortunately, it's not going to stop anytime soon. the recent attacks in ituri, which ms bachelet described as crimes against humanity, and the tensions in the kivu remain a matter of grave concern. in this context, denis mukwege, as always, took clear positions, asking that the fight against impunity not remain in the state of the report, referring to the mapping report, but that everyone takes his responsibilities. it called on the drc to guarantee the protection of the population and to ensure the demilitarisation of mining sites. it called on the international community to support the judicial process in the drc through the establishment of mixed courts. it also called on the international community to allow the prosecution of the perpetrators of the crimes against humanity identified in the mapping report for the period 1993-2003, and to support the creation of an ad hoc tribunal, as the international criminal court, as everyone knows, has no jurisdiction in this area. his positions have again brought him threats that must be taken seriously, because since the establishment of his first hospital which was destroyed in 1996, he has been threatened in 2012 and he is again threatened today. we must protect it, yes, but we must also ensure that it cannot continue in the drc. that is how mr mukwege will be best protected, that is how he can continue to work as a human rights activist.
author. madam president, the attacks and intimidation targeting denis mukwege, the nobel peace prize laureate, since 2012 and until july 2020 are a case in point of violence targeting medical personnel in the eastern democratic republic of congo, which has been ravaged by endless conflict. this situation underlines the scope of the work of the man who, since 1999, has helped some 50 000 victims of sexual violence, some of them severely mutilated, in his hospital in panzi, rightly denouncing these abuses as a genuine terror tactic. let us not condemn the democratic republic of congo, which has shown some determination against these crimes, although much remains to be done, from compensating victims to supporting children from rape. for our part, our un and european resolutions will have no effect unless the actors in the tantalum trade, the underlying cause of the conflict, take their responsibilities. similarly, any international assistance to the health crises in africa will be met by the challenge of the safety of medical practitioners, of which denis mukwege is now the tragic symbol.
author. – madam president, i ask you not to count this as an intervention. i think it is more correct if, after the colleague who negotiated the resolution, we then have all the authors according to the d’hondt method. so i’m more than happy to speak last, so give the floor to the colleagues in the correct order as usual. they know who they are. i’ll be speaking last.
author. – madam president, i am, but i am from the gue/ngl group and i know that we normally follow the d’hondt method. so we can pass to the epp, then renew and so on, and so i’ll speak last very happily. i don’t mean to generate any confusion, sorry.
author. madam president, dr. mukwege is a hero. a hero for the congolese women he repaired and restored to them the taste for life and dignity. a surrogate father in the background for all victims of sexual crimes. denis mukwege is also a hero to human rights activists around the world, where his courage commands admiration. he is still the victim of death threats, but denis mukwege does not back down, our sakharov prize does not keep silent either, he speaks the truth and assumes the risks, which are immense, as we know. so, our duty today is to stop the spell. first, he and his family must be protected, and then his demand for justice for the victims of the conflicts that ravage the west of the country. yes, monusco is back, panzi is a safe haven, but for how long? as we know, the protection of the united nations is temporary. now it's just memory work, then it's just justice. a congo at peace and reconciled with its history, a congo which puts an end to the impunity of the executioners, is that congo, that of dr mukwege, which europe must accompany - beyond words, beyond enchantment - in deeds, and that is what our text proposes.
author. madam president, today the european parliament is expressing its solidarity and support for dr mukwege, the man who repairs women, because he is unfortunately the victim of death threats. we call on the congolese government to continue and intensify its fight against all human rights violations and, in line with the un mapping report, to establish judicial mechanisms to prosecute past and present crimes, and to respect sexual and reproductive rights, including the legalization of abortion in cases of rape. but let us not forget that behind all this is the problem of mineral exploitation, which breeds corruption and violence. the amish have no responsibility for these crimes. the same cannot be said for us, who use our smartphones every day, which we will probably have to change with the coming 5g. this resolution honours not only dr mukwege and the human rights defenders in the drc, but also the entire sakharov prize community, to whom we say thank you. the european parliament will continue to support your struggles.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 6 october 2020 and the final vote on wednesday, 7 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is the centrepiece of punitive legislation, which aims to muzzle governments that oppose the globalist, authoritarian and illiberal drift of the european union. this report follows the 'new pact on migration and asylum' of 23 september and the 'rule of law report 2020' presented on 30 september: a triptych to punish defenders of national sovereignty and all those who refuse to open borders indiscriminately to illegal migration flows. the new punitive legislation targets hungary and its prime minister viktor orbán, who dared to defend his country's interests against the political interference of mercenary ngos and closed its borders to the flood of migration. the latest episode was the statements by the european commissioner for values and transparency, věra jourová, who called hungary a 'sick democracy', an intolerable value judgment on the part of a senior european official who is supposed to work in the interests, not against, the 27 member states.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the european union already provides for mechanisms and procedures to protect the union's fundamental values, such as the sanction procedures provided for in article 7 or the infringement procedures. over the course of the process, the cooperation and verification mechanism and the inclusion of the justice chapter in the european semester reports were added. however, the debate on the effectiveness of the eu's instruments continues. the commission's proposal of july 2019 to verify the soundness of the rule of law in all member states was a very important step, and the first report was produced on 30 september 2020. but this unique approach needs to be institutionalised and made permanent. in this context, i support parliament's proposal to establish, together with the european council and the european commission, the european mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (emlf). in essence, we propose an annual monitoring of compliance with the eu's fundamental values in all member states. the monitoring will comprise 3 stages: preparatory - gathering all the necessary information, publication of the annual report with country-specific recommendations and debate of the content of the commission's report by the european council and the european parliament. the findings of the report will form the basis for the decision whether or not to initiate the article 7 procedure or the infringement procedures.
in writing. is the european union afraid of freedom? it's starting to look like it. when we talk about undermining democracy, the rule of law and the eu's fundamental values, we euphemistically refer to 'illiberal democracies' and 'autocracies'. we do not dare to say out loud that some member states are no longer democracies and are ruled by dictators. human rights watch did say recently: ten million europeans are living under an authoritarian regime. ten million of them. in the eu. the instruments we have at our disposal to protect the basic values of article 2 teu are not adequate. we are now looking for solutions, but once again the commission and the council are putting on the brakes. in the council's proposed mechanism to link the multiannual budget to respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, we only check whether member states are not harming the eu's financial interests. it hasn't helped a judge, a journalist or an lgbti citizen. and in the newly launched monitoring system for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights are not monitored. if the council continues to bow to one dictator, others will follow. so again the question: is the european union afraid of freedom?
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on rule of law conditionality in the framework of the mff 2021-2027 and next generation eu (2020/2797(rsp)). i should like to inform members that for all debates of this part—session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you all very much for giving me the opportunity to take part in such an important debate. i am, however, rather puzzled that members of parliament dare to equate the european union with a communist dictatorship. many of us represent countries where people have had to give their lives, have been persecuted and discriminated against because they stood up for precisely these european values: for freedom, for democracy, for the rule of law, for an independent judiciary, for the respectful treatment of minorities of whatever kind. when i met with lgbti activists from poland last week, i made it clear once again that this is not about special rights. it's about equal rights. no one expects special rights for minorities. but minorities are rightly entitled to be treated in the same way as those who feel they belong to the majority. yes, who would have thought decades ago that we would one day find ourselves in a situation where we are no longer sure what holds us together at the heart of the european union? we are not primarily a single market or a monetary community, we are first and foremost a community of values and a community of law. the european court of justice's decisions, in particular, in relation to the decisions of some member states, have made it clear that there are very objective shortcomings which need to be remedied. i would like to make this clear once again to the german presidency of the council of the european union: all member states should be treated equally. it is not a question of pointing the finger at a few. that is why i see this debate - and the debate we have just had - as a back wind to our discussion, which is admittedly painful, arduous and highly controversial. the german presidency of the council of the eu has, after lengthy discussions, tabled a proposal based on the decision of the european heads of state or government. i can understand very well, honourable members, that one or the other is dissatisfied. if i were here as a representative of the german government, i might even join in this dissatisfaction. i am here as a representative of the council. i'm the council. and even the proposal we have put forward has not been accepted by all the delegations of the member states. this is our offer for negotiating with you. i can only appeal to everyone to come to a substantial result as soon as possible. i can assure you once again, and i hope you trust me, not me as a person, but you trust the german presidency of the council of the european union and you trust what the chancellor said in her speech here to the european parliament: the strengthening of the rule of law is at the top of the agenda of what we have undertaken together with you and the commission. i ask that you respect that the rule of law conditionality is only one building block. following the commission's intensive report on the rule of law situation in poland and hungary in the context of the article 7 procedure at the last council meeting, the german presidency of the eu council will continue the article 7 procedures, as the commission considers that the serious concerns have not yet been fully addressed. this means that we will be dealing with the rule of law situation in these two countries again - probably in the form of hearings. we are very grateful to the european commission for presenting, for the first time in the history of a united europe, a report on the rule of law, which concerns all the member states and which also contains some critical remarks on my own country. we shall look at this report twice because we all know that what we lack above all is a common understanding of what makes us who we are. the rule of law no longer unites us - and this is a bitter, sad finding - the rule of law divides us. and that weakens us in a world where democracy is under pressure and authoritarianism is growing. that's why we have to see that we keep this european union together. but there can be no political discount when the rule of law is called into question. the rule of law conditionality is now the new element. we have made a proposal which cannot and must not ignore what the heads of state or government have agreed. but i want to say again to all those who are worried about whether this is a functioning instrument: yes, it is, because it's about the breakdown of the rule of law. the 2018 proposal already contained a specific reference to the eu budget. we didn't come up with that new idea. i would also like to make it clear that the reference to the european council does not imply a veto on the part of the european council, but was a proposal to refer the matter to the european council again if a member state so wishes, in order perhaps to achieve the necessary degree of uniformity we need. but there are two legislative bodies: this is the parliament and this is the council, and this is not the european council. that is why the european council does not have veto power. it is just another way of getting rid of gravamina in the context of the dialogue. i therefore ask all of you to contribute to ensuring that, in the context of this very complicated and complex situation next generation eu, mff, climate mainstreaming, gender mainstreaming, own resources decision , we also create a regulation that makes clear what we are about at the core of the european union, namely living under the rule of law. if anyone asks what this is all about, it outlines the very points which were also the basis for the eu commission's report, namely the independence of the judiciary, issues of checks and balances, media pluralism and media diversity and also an effective fight against corruption in all eu member states. in this respect, mr lagodinsky, there is no such thing as a 'slow' vote in the council, and mr villumsen is wrong. no one puts their hands in their lap. we're as close to a solution as we've been in a long time. but for that we need a constructive spirit of compromise and cooperation in all the eu institutions. that is why i am asking you from the bottom of my heart.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for inviting me to discuss today the rule of law conditionality in the context of the multiannual financial framework. in this context, i would also like to thank the german presidency for putting the rule of law on the agenda of every meeting of the general affairs council until the end of the year. in her speech to the european parliament on 16 september, president ursula von der leyen reiterated that the commission attaches the utmost importance to respect for the rule of law. the european project is based on respect for this rule of law in all the member states. this is perhaps the most essential question in defining who we are in europe. this is not only a moral imperative, but also a prerequisite for respecting democracy and fundamental rights, the proper functioning of the internal market, the correct application of european law, mutual trust and the maintenance of a favourable investment environment. it is our common duty to uphold the rule of law in all member states, because citizens expect their rights to be protected by the rule of law as the cornerstone of the protection we owe them. ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 the commission proposed a regulation to protect the eu budget against rule-of-law deficiencies. i thank the parliament for its strong support for this proposal. the agreement of the july european council on the multiannual financial framework and next generation eu has created important expectations across europe. the covid-19 crisis presents an unprecedented challenge to all of us. the lives of millions of people, the future of hundreds of thousands of companies and the prospects of many regions depend on our recovery plan. once adopted, this will be the largest package ever financed through the eu budget totalling eur 1.8 trillion. this makes it even more important that an agreement on the mff and next generation eu is accompanied by a full set of measures to protect the eu budget. the commission will continue to ensure that the eu budget is spent in line with applicable rules and principles. and so, every project financed by the eu budget shall generate added value. in addition, the commission fully agrees with the parliament's request on the need to ensure the protection of final recipients and beneficiaries, and the commission is committed to addressing this and other issues in all trilogues. the european council's conclusions on the next mff and next generation eu contain a clear commitment to the rule of law and to the protection of the financial interests of the union. the council presidency now has a mandate to negotiate with the parliament on the commission proposal. the commission has always said that it is ready to work with the co-legislators to improve the proposal on the table. i want to insist that we hope that the trilogue will now allow for a rapid adoption and for setting up an effective mechanism. and i insist on that: it must be effective, for european recovery and resilience will mean little if we get lost along the way. so we'll be very strong on such common defence of the values. ladies and gentlemen, i am naturally counting on the european parliament's firm support in reaching an agreement and quickly putting the new generation of programmes into effect. the protection of our budget is in everyone's interest and we will of course listen very carefully to your comments and observations. my colleague, commissioner hahn, is here to respond to any questions or comments you may have made.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank the german presidency and mr roth for his statement and willingness to enter the negotiations. but let me also right away remind us all why we constantly return to this pressing matter in this house – and now, finally, we are going to address it together – and it’s this: our civil liberties are under excessive pressure. attacks on freedom of the press, civil society and judicial independence are seemingly becoming the standard in some member states. press freedom and the independence of the judiciary should not be privileges for the few; they are the fundamentals for free and functioning democracies. we just cannot allow the values enshrined in our treaties to be systematically threatened or violated by any – and i underline by any – of the member states while eu funds continue to be reserved by the responsible governments. the citizens and taxpayers of europe deserve a properly functioning conditionality mechanism on the rule of law, linked to the budget. the clock is ticking, and now we have to deliver, but a mechanism that cannot ever be triggered in practice due to back doors or indecisive processes serves only the interests of those who do not wish to see any measures taken. so we urge the council to join parliament’s efforts to uphold democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in europe and hope really for constructive negotiations. we simply have to do everything we can in these negotiations. (applause)
i am not saying that the european union is not a good thing, but i am saying that it is a good thing that the european union is not a good thing. but if the council is stuck on fundamental issues and the commission is weakened, the union eventually resents it. that is why we must resolve a fundamental problem, such as respect for the rule of law, as soon as possible, otherwise we will not be able to make any progress. my group has long called for a rule of law mechanism linked to the budget. finally we have a proposal on the table, but it is still insufficient, because it is not just about tackling corruption - we already take that for granted, more would be needed. the rule of law goes much further: it is a common constitutional heritage which is demanded of those who aspire to join the european union and presupposed of those who are already members. article 2 of the treaty states that the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women. this is the heart of the european project - let us not forget it - much more important than the market. the role of the european commission is to ensure that the treaties are complied with and so its evaluation must be objective and, to strengthen its capacity, it would be good to be able to create a specialised advisory panel. a strong commission is essential for the proper functioning of the union; it cannot be constrained by council blocks. if a member state turns a deaf ear to the european commission and the commission sends its observations to the council, the council cannot be held back by a qualified majority. the council must also understand that european democracy gives the supervisory role to this house, the european parliament. let us do things right and avoid falling into blackmail and haggling. europe does not deserve it. it must be of interest to some people that there is talk of a supposed struggle between democratic quality and economic recovery. i want both. that is why i ask you to take responsibility and not to fuel divisions. we all have to be very careful about respecting our democracies, because, with the rise of populisms, the risk spreads across our countries, and because no one here is anyone's policeman and can't look over the shoulder of the neighbor. democracy is being conquered every day. it can never be taken for granted. and that is also why it is important that this message reaches the citizens - that the goal is to help - and that is why we have insisted so much that the final recipients of the funds are not harmed. i have heard in this house twisted arguments being used to say that we are against hungary and poland. nothing could be further from the truth. what we want is to defend the men and women of the european union regardless of where they live, what they believe, who they love, because that is the rule of law. let's not throw it overboard now. our principles are the backbone of the union and the budget is the muscle we need to move us forward. let's not give up on any of them.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, rule of law, rule of law, with these terms you have been harshly attacking hungary and poland for years, who refuse to submit to your federalist vision, a vision which makes the promotion of immigration a key issue for the european union. mrs johansson reminded us of this last week. but do the commission and the majority of the european parliament respect these obvious principles? no, and i'm going to demonstrate it to you right now. your political opponents do not have effective access to a judge, a right enshrined in article 6 of the european convention on human rights. yes, in 2017, ms le pen filed a complaint for forgery and use of forgery, with the constitution of a civil party in the hands of an investigating judge, against three people: mr kessler, then director general of olaf, ms redrado, director of olaf and mr welle, who is still the secretary general of our parliamentary assembly. the complaint alleges that the three men committed fraud and the use of falsehoods in the course of their duties and particularly in connection with an olaf investigation into mrs le pen concerning her parliamentary assistants. the investigating judge in brussels has asked the crown prosecutor on several occasions to waive the parliamentary immunity of the three persons. what is the european parliament's attitude to this request now, more than three years later? the institutions of the european union are turning a deaf ear. where is the respect for this much-vaunted rule of law? mr. roth, where is the independent justice you were talking about earlier? however, the parliamentary majority is known for its speed in lifting the immunity of opposition members, most often for alleged offences of opinion or for acts in the context of their political activities. your indignation is at the top of the client's mind. the rule of law, as it is to be applied, is first and foremost respect for the democratic choice of the people. the governments of hungary and poland have consistently won the elections. let's respect the decisions of the hungarians as well as the poles. let's stop the threats with this conditionality device. the rule of law is also equal justice for all, majority as opposition. finally, respect the requests of a judge of inquiry (inaudible words) who gives the impression that these institutions are tempted by a totalitarian drift, far removed from the rule of law.
madam president, evaluating the rule of law is difficult so let’s trust objective criteria. the un report on arbitrary detention has complaints regarding political prisoners in 42 states. only one, only one, is an eu member state. guess who? hungary? poland? no! spain. one of the prisoners, mr junqueras, is an elected member of this parliament. so all democrats recognise that holding political prisoners is incompatible with the rule of law. however, the commissioners writing their report about the rule of law in spain have totally disregarded this fact. it’s not even mentioned! how can you want to have credibility when you speak about the rule of law when you write these kind of reports? this report about spain is a shame. last week, the supreme court of spain dismissed the president of catalonia. the votes of catalans are not valid to elect meps or to elect presidents. how can you have some respect for these reports? please act before it’s too late.
madam president, three years ago, the citizens of my home country, romania, went to the streets to defend the rule of law, the fight against (inaudible passage), a strong and independent judiciary, in the cold in the winter, in the heat in the summer. they did that with the european flag in their hands, and i can tell you that was one of my proudest moments as a romanian citizen and as a european citizen. the people in the streets were asking for a strong role of the european union in defence of european values. colleagues, i turn to you tonight: now is the time to answer the call of the people of europe, who expect us to stand up for european values. why now? because we are about to adopt the budget of the european union for the next seven years and we are going to add on top – rightly so – a eur 750 billion eu recovery mechanism. we’re going to spend more money than ever, and the more money we spend, the better the control of it needs to be. now is the time to invent a clear rule of law mechanism linked to european funds. how should it be? it should be clear. it should be objective. it should treat all countries fairly and it should treat all member states equally. it should not be political. it should be effective. it should not be watered down. this is what we call for. there is a clear majority in favour of it in the european parliament. mr roth, let’s start negotiations on this without any further delays. we have had a position on it for one and a half years, and let’s deliver now.
madam president, commissioner, i think we are all aware of the importance of this debate, because we are talking about nothing more or less than the rule of law, but also of its importance in relation to the three dossiers which will certainly be the three most important dossiers for the coming years: financial framework, own resources and recovery plan. and we are all also aware of the need, the urgency, to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the programmes can start without delay. but time is not the most important thing, because we have a responsibility to negotiate a mechanism that is impeccable from a democratic point of view and, of course, effective, setting clear criteria and without mistaking the objective. i have said this on several occasions: the most positive thing is that we finally have a proposal from the council on which we can sit down and negotiate. there are positive aspects to that position and i would like to highlight the inclusion of that recovery plan in that regulation. it is something that most of the groups here support, but which we obviously did not include in our position because we negotiated it two years ago. but there are also points in that position which worry me a great deal: that the definition of the rule of law is reduced to the bare minimum, when we should be as demanding of the states which are now members of the union as we were at the time, when they wanted to join the union, or as we are with the candidates, i think it has been a mistake. i am naturally concerned that they will change the reverse qualified majority to a qualified majority, or that they will hardly say a word about protecting the final beneficiaries, because - i repeat - we must not be mistaken in our objective, and, once again - and this is already starting to be outrageous - that they will give the european parliament almost a mere consultative role or, at most, a role of validating what is decided in the council, because this is already beginning to be worrying. in short, we have a lot to discuss, but at least we have that proposal to start negotiating with.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last week viktor orbán called for the resignation of commissioner jourová, who is responsible for upholding our values. the reaction of the other states: nothing! you take notes, but you don't get offended. and today, the same viktor orbán is threatening to block the recovery plan. why is that? because europeans refuse to allow democracies, their democracy, to be untied with the help of their taxes. how did we get here, honestly? perhaps if states were no longer sclerosed by unanimity then we could finally protect our democracies. perhaps if the states were no longer sclerosed by unanimity, we could start the recovery quickly without some people shouting "orphrey" whenever we talk about solidarity. mr. minister, the negotiations on the next budget are at an impasse. everyone at home has filed a veto threat, so we'll have to sort this out. then let's move! we're ready to go! 2021 is in three months!
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress that the german presidency's proposal to link payments from the future eu budget to the so-called rule of law is in stark contrast to the conclusions reached at the european council in brussels on 21 july. the heads of government agreed to this link at the time, but the mechanism was designed to combat risks to the spending of european funds, such as corruption, inefficiency and fraud. the german presidency, wishing to meet the most radical demands made here in this chamber, mainly by its left wing, is proposing a mechanism which is intended to give the european commission a free hand in arbitrary punishment of the member states. minister roth, commissioner reynders, i have to tell you something. you are not interested in protecting the financial interests of the european union, as you have said here. you are interested in preparing an ideological stick to throw at the governments of member states you do not like. poland and other member states have never... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, is it a good idea to withhold subsidies in the event of undesirable situations in member states? the short answer is "no". let's get practical here. eu grants are very necessary to achieve eu objectives. if the money runs out, the project will stall and the objectives will not be met. moreover, linking political goals to money flows is corrupting and disruptive. perverse incentives never lead to a desired outcome. the netherlands should know all this better than anyone else. for years after 1975, the country has been messing up the situation in its former colony of suriname with this carrot-and-stick approach. it's not working. i share the sincere concern about the lawful use of eu funds. but there are other ways to do it better, for example simply by making eu grants and their spending visible in real time on the european commission's website, so that everyone can consult them. this allows any citizen to monitor the progress of the matter. the development of democratic states based on the rule of law takes time. take that time and give that time.
madam president, respect for the rule of law and the values of the european union must be an obligation, it cannot be an option. i am also very impressed that the member states which, in order to join the european union, fulfilled the criteria for membership and committed themselves to respecting the values, after being in the european union no longer respect those same values and go backwards. it is a setback that is not acceptable. it is also unacceptable that european taxpayers, european citizens, should pay and contribute to those who are not respecting the rule of law. and in that sense, i think we should all be in the same boat, we should all be working towards that respect. and there is something, and i will end, that i find doubly unacceptable: in addition to this lack of solidarity, it is unacceptable that member states which do not respect the rule of law should at the same time want to blackmail, as for example with the recovery fund, which is essential for the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank minister roth for his very personal commitment, but we have to recognise that council has basically passed on the hot potato to the european parliament because a majority of governments secretly hopes that parliament will do their dirty work for them, because they are being held hostage by the autocrats in their midst. and that is why reverse qmv has to be a red line for this house. and let’s not fall into the trap that we have to accept a trade-off, either the rule of law or some of our other demands like our resources, for example, because we don’t, because this is not about money, this is about what kind of european union will be funded with taxpayers’ money in the next seven years. will it be the illiberal democracy of orbán and his orbanettes or will it be a european community of values and a community of law? colleagues, we have one opportunity. one. we cannot fail. (applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen has revealed to this house her intention to exploit the covid crisis to impose the ideology of multiculturalism, immigration and lgbt people in europe, announcing that respect for the so-called rule of law will become a condition for access to the recovery fund. this is a condition which the commission has already used in its monitoring report to urge italy to block, for example, the campaigns of denunciation against ngos importing migrants into europe. it is therefore clear that the rule of law is nothing but a subtle weapon to blackmail the peoples of europe, brought to their knees by the health crisis, and to subject them to the dictatorship of the 'political correctness', in exchange for the hope of obtaining money which, in reality, does not belong to you but to the sacrifices of these same peoples. so i'm telling you straight up: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
madam president, we need a strong and functional rule of law conditionality for the eu budget – an overwhelming majority in this parliament agrees on this. the arguments why have been exchanged extensively. what i find particularly interesting are the arguments against. the polish and the hungarian governments have repeatedly claimed – and we have also heard this again today in this chamber – that this is merely some kind of left-wing evil conspiracy against conservative values in the european union. what absolute utter nonsense. because if we look at this proposal, at this conditionality, it is actually exactly that at its core. it’s conservative. it is law-and-order politics at its best. you play by the rules that all member states – again, all member states – have jointly agreed on, or you live with the consequences. and the consequences might mean that you cannot distribute eu money to your liking anymore. i want to show you: this is where the big consensus in the european parliament starts, on this left side, and then it goes all the way up until here – the epp. this is not a left-wing conspiracy. let’s go back to reality and talk about real arguments. we need this conditionality and we need it now.
i have to say, madam president, rule of law is non-negotiable. it is a pity that europe's values are now being used as a bargaining chip in financial negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall then proceed with the budget as it stands, let a year pass and i shall be relatively calm. the european rule of law is a clear condition. there are others. the recovery fund must clearly be invested in european added value: in the energy transition, in modern health systems, in research. if this fund is misused to finance normal government expenditure, it is not reconstruction. then we've got four years of fire and 40 years of debt for nothing. we must be clear about this too. without a binding european added value, the reconstruction fund makes no more sense than without a link to a functioning legal system.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the next generation? orbán, kaczyński and co. continue their anti-democratic path partly with the help of eu funds. strengthening the democratic rule of law is a priority of the german presidency of the council but is it really for everyone? the compromise on conditionality which has now been put forward is disappointing. no qualified majority, which would have made the deletion of eu funds almost automatic, and the procedures can be dragged on indefinitely. risk of undermining the rule of law: deleted. the budget must now be sufficiently directly threatened. the next generation? my 'next generation eu' would not be that. the council must also finally take a clear position for our democracy.
madam president, we have a unique opportunity, and i am addressing the council to michael roth. this time, really put the rule of law at the heart of the budget. this time, let the rule of law win against the reason of the state. no one believes that viktor orbán is blackmailing. he's bluffing when he says he's gonna block the stimulus package. let's not be afraid to expose him. let us be more ambitious in terms of implementation. dear michael roth, the rule of law is about much more than just protecting financial interests. this is about our freedoms! and conditionality is the only way to restore mutual trust between us on the recovery plan. but we mustn't punish the citizens twice. we proposed smart conditionality. the commission must manage the funds directly in case of violation of the rule of law because it is the governments that must be sanctioned, not the citizens. and let us remember what martin luther king said: a right delayed is a right denied. this time, let us ensure that our values are truly protected!
madam president, for a decade we have only spoken in this european union of structural adjustments and budget cuts to the detriment of essential public services and the people. the commission has just published its first annual rule of law report and says it wants to create a rule of law culture among us. it is a good initiative and a good report. but if the question of rights and freedoms remains the subject of hushed discussions in our national parliaments and the subject of a dissertation in the european parliament once a year, in which we say with a sad look that the rule of law is not improving in the european union, then we have failed. why does the commission not hesitate to initiate infringement proceedings when it comes to financial or competition problems? why is it that its experts are still able to find legal grounds? why do the member states not hesitate to isolate one of their own when it deviates from monetary rules, which can have terrible consequences for the people, but why are we unable to create a financial mechanism of sanction worthy of the name when autocrats embezzle our common money by reducing freedoms and democracy?
mr. chairman, very heavy words that cannot be left unanswered. this parliament must not be used for political propaganda by one party or another. the rule of law instrument is extremely important and we, as democrats, stand behind the rule of law, behind the effective fight against corruption. yes, we all want effective sentences. that's the independent power. isn't that also part of the rule of law? democracy, mandate is also part of the rule of law. the democratic elections, the preparations for them, which are scheduled for next year in march. everyone who wants and has a desire for change in bulgaria should prepare for the democratic elections and bring about this change. but democratically, not with such attempts to abuse this parliament. of course, we thank the european commission for all the recommendations. the bulgarian government, bulgaria will implement all the recommendations, it must implement them because they are in the interest of the bulgarian citizens. more justice, more rule of law. but this resolution, at the expense of the report, is absolutely the political offspring of the left wing of this parliament. we cannot agree to this resolution which is based on speculation, on rumors, on unproven facts and, more precisely, on unproven suspicions about one thing or another. and of course, very interesting - i don't see here any representative of the leadership of the socialists, but their party in bulgaria, firstly, is the most pro-kremlin party, and secondly, on many of these issues, it has a completely different opinion from the european socialists. i also strongly disagree with the left trying to force us to accept the so-called macedonian minority. absolutely not! democracy, of course, always wins.
mr. chairman, first of all, i want to say that this is not a debate against the bulgarian side, nor is it a debate against the bulgarian citizens. this is a debate about democracy in the republic of bulgaria. this discussion and subsequent resolution can only succeed if it is based on facts and not on ideological contradictions. there is no more democratic forum than the european parliament, because we speak 24 languages here. one of the chronic problems of the last 30 years of bulgarian democracy, mr. weber, is that there is no possibility of conducting an election campaign in any other language than the official bulgarian, with an interpreter and if necessary. if you decide to run for the european parliament in bulgaria, the laws of your country allow it, the bulgarian gerb party recognizes you or the classical right in the person of the sds decides to include you in its lists. so far, all is well. but here's the big question. what language will you speak? the bulgarian electoral law says to only one, in bulgarian. you actually have a choice. there are two options: one is that every time you say something in german and english, you pay a 500 euro fine; the second option is that you campaign without speaking, without communicating. this is where the nationalist jambazki hurts. he's in pain for something else. he said a lot of things that are not true in themselves, but he forgot to mention the imro cash register, the so-called passports, the golden passports. and there's a parliamentary committee here that's going to look into this.
do you have a point of order?
yes mr president, this was a clear personal attack. it was personal, and a clear lie, so i will want from you and the bureau to take a decision and to have all the records so to punish our colleague under the rules of the european parliament, because it was a lie, clear lie, unacceptable.
i'll have her voice mail checked, and we'll get back to you.
mr president, addressing you today on the state of corruption and the rule of law in bulgaria, i have a feeling of déjà vu. we have already discussed upholding democracy and fighting corruption while tens of thousands of eu citizens protest on the streets. yet again, we are noting with concern the high level of corruption, the degradation of judicial independence and the lack of media freedom in an eu member state. yet again, our response to their continued cries for support remains too weak, too little and too late. commissioners, we have complimented you, and we want to compliment you, on the quality of the annual rule of law report. it seems to me that we have the same long-term priorities. however, in order to demonstrate that we are fully committed to the rule of law right now, we need to see concrete action resulting from this exercise. we cannot fight an open fire only with an inventory of what started the fire. have we not learned anything from the cases of hungary and poland? the annual report just published shows significant deficiencies in bulgaria across a number of areas, but most notably in the use of public funds. the commission needs to act on these findings. as a bare minimum we need to maintain the cooperation and verification mechanism, and on this we disagree with the commission because no other instrument exists at the moment to challenge the situation and fight the corruption.
mr president, i think we are witnessing a worrying precedent again tonight. one can, and this is undeniable, disagree with the bulgarian prime minister, this is a fact. but some here are once again seeking to use the fundamental issue of the rule of law to express political disagreements. the rule of law issue is: can bulgarian citizens demonstrate freely? the answer is yes, ladies and gentlemen, you were at those demonstrations. do the media ignore criticism of the government? the answer is no, we all know that. is there political pluralism in bulgaria? of course, the president is even from a different camp than the prime minister, and he plays a significant role in the ongoing protests. the commission itself has just pointed out the undeniable progress made by bulgaria. of course, much remains to be done, but if the bulgarians are not satisfied with their government, they can, they must, they will say so themselves in the coming elections and if they are satisfied then they will choose to run it again. ladies and gentlemen, democracy is too important for us to choose to enter an electoral process and take part in what appears to be a form of manipulation of electoral freedom, i believe that the rule of law goes through this, of course, first of all it is our responsibility.
ladies and gentlemen, however this debate ends, the name of our country will be tarnished. i've been a member of this parliament for five years, but i'm a bulgarian for as long as i live, and as such i ask you: is that what you promised your constituents a year ago? who's stopping people in bulgaria from protesting, tell me? every day for the last three months we have evidence to the contrary, and no one is saying that this administration is absolutely flawless and has solved all the problems of transition. but to stand in the european parliament and say that children are gassed in bulgaria - for god's sake, you have to have some limits! we all want an independent judiciary, but it's the fruit of a collective effort, a collective effort that you're not a part of. and moreover, it's not going to happen by changing one government to another. this parliament cannot be used for partisan battles. even worse for someone who's trying to get into power without being elected to do so. any opposition that demands that a legitimately elected government step down days before a regular election is admitting that it has no power to win such an election. governments come and go, but the people stay. and that kind of debate isn't gonna win you an election, nor will it give you 10 years of credibility to govern. we'll be fine when we stop taking our problems out and start solving them ourselves. we're reaching out and working with everyone. bulgaria above all!
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i think it was quite a symbolic thing that we had a technical problem with the microphones while speaking about democracy and freedom of speech and pluralism of media, because we saw that simply speaking, the more microphones we have the better the debate is. so thank you very much, this was a very good debate again about a very serious and important topic relating to the rule of law, in this case the rule of law relating to one concrete country which is bulgaria. as i said at the beginning, we will continue working on the cooperation and verification mechanism because simply there is still unfinished business, there are still things to be done, and cvm was never just ticking the boxes, because, at the commission which followed very closely the progress of the reforms, we wanted to see tangible results and a sustainable, positive effect on the bulgarian judiciary and on the bulgarian system for fighting corruption and organised crime. and i have to add one thing, we continue the cvm also while seeing that there was quite strong interest from the bulgarian people that there is this work continuing, that due to the fact that there is still very low trust in the bulgarian judiciary and fight against corruption, many bulgarian people, according to many surveys, gave us the message, ‘continue and accomplish the work properly. we want to see the job done’. and this is what we are doing now. and next to that we started to work on the rule of law mechanism which didier reynders spoke about before and i think that it is important that now we work in those two tracks. we believe that we can achieve those tangible results, but it requires very good cooperation with the bulgarian authorities. i want to mention one more thing, soon we will see the european public prosecutor’s office starting to function and bulgaria is one of the countries which joined the eppo, which was very active over the process of negotiations and which is now working towards the full functioning of the eppo, the good representation of bulgaria in the structures of the eppo, and the eppo will be one of the very serious and i believe useful contributions of the eu in helping the member states to fight against corruption and crime relating to eu money. so i’m ready to continue working with the bulgarian authorities both on cvm and the continuation of the work following the rule of law report. bulgaria will be among the first five countries which will be debated at the council, and i believe that together we can achieve results, which will also increase the trust of bulgarian people, because all the reforms, all the efforts have to be done in bulgaria not because brussels wants it, but because the bulgarian people deserve it.
member of the commission. – mr president, i don’t want to add so much after what was said by vice-president jourová, but just to insist on the fact that of course we have the opportunity to take actions. as just said, at the end of the year, beginning of next year, we’ll start with the european public prosecutor’s office, so it’s a real action from all the institutions together, and now we will have the possibility to organise prosecutions after investigations, at eu level, so it’s a good instrument to fight against these kinds of crime at the different levels in the european union. we have the cvm, of course, but we also have the rule of law report, and in the rule of law report i have said we have positive developments but also we have real concern. i don’t want to repeat what i’ve said on the different chapters also about bulgaria, like all the member states. i just want to insist on one point. as michael roth said on behalf of the german presidency, we will have a discussion in november about five member states, including bulgaria, because it’s very important to analyse the situation not in general, but country by country, member state by member state. and i repeat what i have said in the discussions in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs: we are open to come and discuss with parliament the situation in all the different member states, including bulgaria. it’s the best way to have a fair analysis of the situation and really explain what it is possible to do with the actual tools that we have in our toolbox concerning the rule of law in bulgaria like in all member states. but it’s not true to say there are words and papers but no action. again, it will be very important in the fight against corruption to start with the eppo next year, but we will use all the tools at our disposal in bulgaria, like in all the member states, but please, maybe it will be fine to organise a debate on the basis of the rule of law report on each and every member state, including bulgaria.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank you for the opportunity to take part in this debate. people who peacefully demonstrate for our european values deserve our respect, our sympathy and our solidarity in bulgaria and everywhere else in europe. i would like to take up a point made by a member here, who said that this debate would tarnish him, would tarnish his country. i think that argument goes to the heart of the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this as a citizen of a country where yesterday there was an attack on a person of the jewish faith in a liberal and cosmopolitan city. we have a massive increase in anti-semitic violence in my home country, and i cannot see it as a stain on germany to face this painful debate. minorities, whether religious, sexual, ethnic or cultural, have earned their place throughout the european union. if there are problems of exclusion, discrimination, oppression, then you have to address that without it being seen as interference in the internal affairs of another country and without it being seen as disadvantage of the respective country. that is why it is so important - and why i thank you all for this debate - that we require all member states of the european union to review the state of the rule of law. i acknowledge that the partners in bulgaria also very quickly expressed their willingness to actively attend the first round of the rule of law check. the debates and arguments which you, ladies and gentlemen, have also delivered - sometimes in a positive and sympathetic way, sometimes in a somewhat critical way - will certainly also be included in the very open debate of the council, planned for november. the council, ladies and gentlemen, is not silent. the council shares the commission's responsibility, as does the european parliament, to strengthen the rule of law. i repeat: this is one of the key priorities of the german presidency of the council of the european union.
mr roth, thank you very much. in conclusion, in a difficult debate, may i say just once more: law united and the basis for reforms protects the citizen. the right doesn't divide. perhaps it is a beautiful symbol of what we have experienced here today, that on the one hand the microphones have not gone off a few times. that means not everything is fine. but we have decided together to take a short break and then make sure that everyone has a voice in his own place. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday, the final vote on thursday. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the explanation of the council's position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2021 (2020/2697 ((rsp)). i do not need to repeat that there is no blue card or spontaneous wording in this debate.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am pleased to present to you today the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021. i would like to start by highlighting a few points, particularly the challenge that we are all facing with the covid-19 pandemic. this pandemic has a significant impact on the procedure for establishing the 2021 eu budget. we need to reach an agreement on the 2021 budget together in the shortest possible time and with limited opportunities for physical meetings. in addition, our three institutions are consulting in a different context on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework, and the outcome of this consultation is a decisive factor in the preparation of a budget for 2021. i would like to stress that in these turbulent times we are fully aware of our responsibility as the arm of the budgetary authority. we are ready to live up to the expectations of union citizens and to present a balanced and forward-looking budget for 2021. in this context, we need to weigh carefully what taxpayers' contributions in the eu are spent on. the council will, as always, urge prudence and budgetary discipline. as the current pandemic has shown, this approach is more important than ever, as we need to have sufficient room to maneuver to meet the unknown challenges and risks that may be facing us in the coming year. the german presidency will do its utmost to reach agreement on an eu budget for the coming year that will move the eu forward and that focuses on the union's budgetary objectives and the benefits for our citizens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. let me now turn to the council's position. we started work immediately after the commission's proposal was presented on 24 june. in the absence of agreement on the medium-term financial framework 2021-2027, the commission's draft budget was based on its own proposal for the mff 2021-2027, which was last updated on 27 may. the european council reached agreement on the medium-term financial framework for the next seven years at its july meeting, but it deviates from the basis on which the commission based its 2021 draft budget. since the commission has not presented a revised draft budget for 2021, the council has formulated its position as follows: first of all, the operational expenditure. the council accepted in principle the contributions proposed by the commission in the draft 2021 budget, but in a form adapted to take account of the guidelines of the european council. the council is aware that this method may disregard the specific spending profiles of some programmes and will therefore reassess its position as soon as the commission provides relevant information in the context of the letter of amendment. in the meantime, i would like to say that the council expects the letter of amendment before 31 october, hoping to have sufficient time to consider it before our joint conciliation period. the commission has adopted a two-pronged approach to administrative expenditure. firstly, the council has consolidated the staffing of all the institutions, with the exception of the european parliament, at the current level. secondly, the council has reduced contributions for travel and meeting expenses in line with the changes in working methods of all institutions due to covid-19, but also excluding the european parliament. let me explain some of the main points of the council's position. first, the council made an arithmetic correction to the amounts proposed by the commission for 2021 in respect of commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. this applies to all programmes for which a different contribution is now provided compared with the mff proposal of the commission of 27 may. the second measure taken by the council is an increase of eur 3.6 billion in appropriations for payments. this appropriation is intended to cover the budgetary impact of an increase in the pre-financing rate of certain programmes from 1% to 2% as from 1 january 2021. the commission has also decided to increase the amount of the financial envelope for the solvency ii instrument by eur 100000000 for the period 2014-2020 and eur 500000000 for the period 2014-2020. finally, a budget line was established for the new brexit reserve. this approach has led to a council position which provides for an amount of eur 162.9 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 164.8 billion in payment appropriations. these amounts ensure a very good expenditure trend. i would like to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that i believe that today's debate will open up a series of constructive and open discussions. these discussions will enable us to reach a balanced and forward-looking compromise. we must not deviate from our common objectives and we must demonstrate our strong commitment to europe. i am convinced that we can agree on a budget for 2021 within the mutually agreed timeframe. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the german presidency on reaching an agreement with the member states on the draft budget 2021 position. we understand that this is a provisional position, which more or less mechanically translates the european council’s july mff agreement into the annual budget. i cannot stress enough how vital it is to reach a political agreement on the mff as soon as possible. based on this, i understand the council will re-evaluate its position once an agreement has been reached with parliament and once the commission has updated the draft budget proposal in accordance with the amending letter. let me assure you that we will deliver the proposal for the amending letter as soon as possible after the mff agreement, but there needs to be an agreement first. prolonging the current framework is absolutely no substitute. contingency arrangements would prolong uncertainty and entail further difficulties. the commission will of course continue to act as an honest broker to facilitate a compromise. we will work day and night if necessary to bring these negotiations to a successful outcome. as regards parliament’s reading of the budget, we take good note of the positions expressed in parliament’s guidelines and proposals for amendments. the commission will respond to parliament’s and the council’s proposals for amendments in detail in its executability letter, which will be presented ahead of the conciliation procedure. on our timeline for the draft budget 2021 negotiations, let me emphasise that this year we have virtually no room for manoeuvre in our calendar and, of course, the prerequisite is the mff agreement. due to the delay in the mff procedure, the conciliation committee cannot be convened until 17 november and, as usual, we have 21 days (which means until 7 december) to reach an agreement. i trust we all understand that this leaves no margin for failure. the agreement on the draft budget 2021 has to be found within these 21 days if we want to start 2021 with a budget in place. there will be simply no time to present a second proposal for a draft budget. we will need to work together more actively and constructively. both parliament and the council have already expressed the sincere wish to cooperate and find an agreement. i am thus confident that this is possible and i see no reason why we should fail. our citizens rely on us to find effective solutions in this time of crisis. the 2021 budget will make a vital contribution to supporting our people and our pandemic relief activities, as well as the many other sectors that the union budget supports. the recent rise in covid-19 infections across europe proves more than anything else the need to find an agreement on the mff and ensure a functioning budget as of 1 january 2021.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam secretary of state, commissioner, as you know, we cannot accept the budget you are proposing for europe. we cannot accept the cuts that the council has decided to make in health, employment, research or the climate. so how can we unblock the negotiations, how can we reach a win-win agreement, how can we find the means to finance the 15 priorities defined by parliament on 23 july? the solution is to move very concretely and very quickly on own resources. the council has already accepted the plastic contribution. that's a very good thing, but it's going to bring in $7 billion a year, and that's going to go down if people use less plastic. that is why we must also make very rapid and very concrete progress on the other five own resources requested by the european parliament and in particular on the financial transaction tax. it was the barroso commission in 2011 that proposed the tax directive and carried out the impact study. everything is ready for us to set it up. of all the own resources requested by parliament, it is the most technically and politically mature, and the barroso commission said it could bring in €81 billion by 2020. brexit is costing us 30% of the money, but the financial markets are doing very well. despite brexit, despite the economic crisis, the financial transaction tax can bring in €50 billion every year. fifty billion a year is 50 times more than a digital tax, even though the latter is also a very good idea. with next generation eu, germany will have to repay just over €100 billion. if the entire common debt were repaid by the ftt, germany could keep its 100 billion and save it for health and pensions. if parliament insists so much on the ttf coming in 2024, (this date is still today one of the blocking points of the trilogue) it is to avoid falling back into recession. because by 2024, after three years of money flowing through next generation eu, member states will have forgotten about the constraints. and if every country has to respect the traditional rules of deficit, and if the union returns to a very small cfp, we will fall back into recession. that is why parliament wants the ftt to be for 2024 and not 2026, because if we have two years of a budgetary hole, there is a very, very high risk of falling back into recession, which would be dramatic for the recovery. on the other hand, if we reach an agreement on the ftt in the next few weeks and we can count on this tax for four years, it will give us an extra 200 billion for the whole of the mff. and with these 200 billion we can raise the ceilings for 2021 and find funding without any problems as early as 2021 for the fifteen priorities of parliament. we can therefore unblock the mff negotiation and the negotiation in 2021 at the same time. everything is ready and the german presidency has said that this is one of its priorities. so what are we waiting for? you say you are prepared to work day and night, commissioner, and michael roth said so earlier, so we must move forward, everything is ready. i am the rapporteur on the budget. i have said it before and i will say it again: in good conscience, i will not be able to vote on the next budget if we do not get an agreement on the additional 50 billion a year for climate, health and employment through the ftt. we must move forward, we must unblock the negotiation, which is why i have written to you to propose a specific meeting on the question of the ftt to unblock the negotiation in 2021 and the mff negotiation. a meeting whose purpose would be to make real progress on this request from parliament: taxing speculation to have more money for our fifteen priorities. i would like to end by talking about our ambition. if we have a great ambition for europe, a great ambition for our children, we must have a large budget. that is why i suggest that we really get back to work without delay, this week. let's meet this week to move forward and unblock the negotiation. it is together that we will build this ambition and it is together that we can finance it!
mr president, it has been seven years, seven years, since our parliament voted for the compulsory increase in the number of women on boards, when they are vastly under-represented. seven years to achieve a meagre target of 40% of women, and how many more years before parity. seven years of non-binding incentives failing because of lack of regulation. seven years we've been trying to impose the obvious, except to consider that women are inherently less capable than men. seven years have passed since the european council died and in the meantime three terms of office of members of the european parliament have been held here. seven years wasted because a handful of macho men refused to budge. seven years wasted because, as always, women's rights are the last to be considered and are considered a trivial detail. seven years wasted because a few men stubbornly cling to their circle of power. so i ask you, since seven years have not been enough for you to have parity in the boards, how many more centuries will it take before the revalorisation of female professions, equal pay between women and men, equal parenting? i say to you right now, we will not wait any longer, let alone seven years to achieve the equality that is due to us.
madam president, the council has finally spoken about turkey, but again with disarming passivity. it is time to act now, to act urgently because turkey is now a threat to its neighbours, but also to the whole of europe and the world around us. in fact, mr erdoğan organized a migration crisis at the european union border last february, he is violating the sovereignty of cyprus, he is systematically threatening the territorial waters and airspace of our greek friends, he is invading territories in syria to oppress the kurds, he is financing and recruiting jihadists, dreaming of himself as the new leader of an islamist international, and today he is taking on armenia with azerbaijan. to armenia, already a martyr of genocide, because armenia is christian, which is still denied by all turkish propaganda. it's time to finally do something. what are we doing? the council has still not put an end to the procedure for turkey's accession to the european union, which was an aberration and is now an absolute moral scandal. it puts the aggressors and the aggressed on the same level by simply calling for an end to hostilities. how do we expect to get mr. erdoğan to back down with such a vocabulary? finally, there is no mention of sanctions against turkey. dear friends, we talk a lot about the rule of law here. turkey is trying to show that violence can prevail over international law, are we going to continue to tolerate this collective cowardice? that is the question we are all being asked today.
madam president, strategic autonomy, european sovereignty, how many times has a france that is supposedly alone been criticized? only to cling to concepts that she would be the only one to defend in europe. well, madam president, i am pleased to note, when reading the conclusions of the council of 1 and 2 october, that these ideas of strategic autonomy, of european sovereignty, are now part of the vocabulary of the european union. whether it is thinking about our digital future, our industrial policy or dealing with the geopolitical crises of today's world, we can no longer be content to remain an open market, or refuse to weigh in as a peaceful but determined power. we can protect ourselves without becoming protectionist, we must defend ourselves without becoming aggressive. in the face of china's systematic rivalry, in the face of turkey's systematic military adventurism, in the face of russia's imperialist nostalgia and the indifferent passivity of the united states, we must assert ourselves, defend our interests, be proud of our values not only in words but also in deeds.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the von der leyen commission was set up, the european union's environmental action has been expressed in beautiful declarations which unfortunately have been shattered by the reality of the acts. this is the case, again, of this text on the european union's forestry strategy. so on the one hand we say that primary forests must be protected, but on the other hand this text promotes wood as a source of energy, when everyone knows that the energy efficiency of wood is extremely poor and that its combustion contributes to greenhouse gas emissions. so, on the one hand we say that the forest is a common good that must be protected, but at the same time this text is opposed to the fact that we can denounce the privatisation of the state forest management agencies, which manage 40% of the forest area in europe. so, on the one hand we say and call on the european commission to take measures to safeguard biodiversity by promoting the diversity of forest species, but at the same time this text defends and encourages commercial forest management, which is based on commercial monoculture and clear-cutting which are extremely detrimental to sustainable forest management. so, my dear colleagues, let us ask ourselves for a moment whether the human species is destined to go from one ecological wilderness to another? after using gas, oil and coal, are we now going to burn all our forests or is it finally possible to think of a model of society in which the human species would live in harmony with nature?
mr president, forest management is not an area that the treaties have entrusted to the european union. i therefore believe that it must remain national and protest against the sarvamaa report's desire to build a european forestry strategy. my group, identity and democracy, has tabled an alternative resolution to mark this opposition. the union is now in the nasty habit of violating treaties whenever it sees fit. our presence in brussels is proof of this, because according to the treaties we should be sitting in strasbourg. and under the juncker commission, the scandalous appointment of martin selmayr was another striking illustration of this. before giving lessons on the rule of law to poland and hungary, the union should first sweep its own doorstep. in the case we are dealing with today, the union's interference is all the more absurd since the states manage their forests very well. in france, for example, forest cover is increasing by 40 000 hectares a year. rather than satisfying its vain desire for power, the union would do better to protect its borders against chinese traders who come to plunder our timber production, thus putting our sawmills at risk.
i would like to thank mr lebreton. mr lebreton, i call you to order because it is not customary to display messages in the form of banners and t-shirts in this chamber. this is unparliamentary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, forests are the lungs of humanity and the planet. our future depends to a large extent on our ability to stop the ongoing deforestation and degradation, the catastrophic consequences of which are ecological. as you know, almost all of europe's forests are now threatened, only 15% of them are in a condition considered favourable. fifteen percent of the time. what are we waiting for? are we waiting for the last tree in europe's last primary forest to be cut down? that would be an aberration. but that is exactly what the european strategy we are discussing today proposes. behind the vague words, there is a policy that does not say its name, because it is in reality unacceptable. we are finally being asked to continue as before, without changing our logic. for years we have watched the amazon rainforest die and we have no words strong enough to condemn bolsonaro's policies. but what is europe doing in guyana? we are leaving the amazon to legal and illegal gold miners and we are planning to open an oil-fired power plant. we are accelerating the loss of forests throughout europe, instead of correcting our renewable energy directive to prevent it from contributing to deforestation in areas which we should be protecting. it is time to put an end to the crimes against forests and those who protect them, such as the 170 forest guards attacked in recent years in romania. it's time to reaffirm that the laws of profit are not above nature. it is time to consider forests as natural commons, living entities, partners to be protected. i call on you to vote for amendment 2.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the forest is our most valuable asset in achieving our climate objectives. it is therefore very important to strengthen the european union's support for the fight against the causes of forest degradation. i am thinking in particular of the fires which are destroying thousands of hectares of forest each year in europe and around the world. i would like to emphasize in this house the work done by european farmers in agroforestry regions: their role in fire prevention is essential. i am pleased that the european parliament is recognising this activity in the reports we are voting on this week. and i hope that when we adopt the new cap in two weeks' time, our institution will show the same appreciation to these producers, who are often located in difficult areas. i would also like to stress the need to extend the benefits of european environmental policies to third countries. in this respect, i welcome the broad agreement reached by the european parliament on the ban on the import of products from deforested areas and the respect for forests imposed in trade agreements with third countries.
member of the commission. thank you, mr president! i thank all members for their comments and suggestions on the strategy. they are very important, very valuable and i can say that both commissioner sinkevičius and i - because we are working together on the concept of this strategy - will incorporate the comments that you have presented, to the extent that it is possible. of course, we will take into account the content of the report that is adopted. of course, i won't go into all the speeches, which were almost 50. i am pleased that the members of parliament are so committed to this strategy. there are a few things that may need clarification. the first is that there's no strategy yet. there were some voices here indicating that we were discussing an existing strategy. we have the current strategy, the new one will of course be a continuation of it, but an improved continuation - that is our ambition, to prepare a better strategy than the one that has been so far. the legal basis. of course, we remember that forest management is a national responsibility. the strategy will not be a binding legal act forcing member states to do anything. we hope that there will be a certain agreed political declaration of the will of the member states to work together, on equal terms, with equal care, to keep europe's forests in good condition. the commission has also received comments from the sampled exporting producers. this is a key point in the draft report by mr sarvamy. i am very pleased with this approach and the commission will follow suit. of course, some people put more emphasis on the environmental function, while others emphasize the economic aspect as being very important. we have to balance it. we want europe's forests to be the stronghold of nature, the green lungs, as some have said, but open, accessible to our society, not just to be admired from afar, but to be used. and of course, the economic role. it cannot be abandoned and this forestry must be managed in a sustainable way. 60% of europe's forests are privately owned, so we must also respect the rights of the owners, who - as one commenter pointed out - are naturally proud if their forests are well managed. there must be no contradiction between the strategies already adopted by the european commission. the forestry strategy must be consistent with both the overall green communication and biodiversity strategies, and to some extent with the field-to-table strategy. for me personally, it is particularly important to make good use of the elements of the common agricultural policy, because such instruments are means for afforestation in the second pillar. i have mentioned, and i will repeat, agroforestry as one of the potential eco-programmes that we will encourage member states, farmers, to take advantage of. this will also be one way of increasing the forest cover of the european union. fortunately, the area of forests in the european union is increasing, the forest cover is increasing and this trend must be maintained. we need good, growing forests. of course we will also remember the forests of the world, we have instruments in the common trade policy of the european union. we will try to pursue a policy which not only does not encourage any kind of predatory forestry outside europe's borders, but also promotes the protection of forests and uses the european union's trade policy to this end as far as possible. we'll base our actions on scientific research, of course. it is very important to work with science and to base all actions on sound scientific knowledge. it's also important to avoid the tendency to fight plastic, which has been mentioned in some of the speeches, and not to let forests fall victim to this change in thinking. we also need to rationally shape the demand for wood, so that it is not at the expense of over-exploitation of forests. mr. chairman, in conclusion, i'm very pleased with this discussion. i think we are on the right track together to develop a good forest strategy - one that will be accepted by everyone in the european union and consistently implemented. and it's not only preserving the beauty of our forests, their natural value, but also preserving their important economic potential. thank you very much, mr. chairman.
rapporteur. – mr president, just a couple of remarks on the lengthy and very interesting discussion that we’ve just had. first of all, i would say to ms toussaint – unfortunately she is not here, but maybe you will give my regards – that i would probably enjoy condemning mr bolsonaro on how he treats the brazilian forests, but this is the european forests strategy, once again, that we are debating today. then to mr bompard, i want to just make one factual correction – there were plenty of reasons to do that in many speeches, but there’s one that i would specifically like to make – and that’s when he said that this report is promoting wood as a source of energy. the way i understand the word ‘promote’ in the english language, this report is not promoting the use of wood as a source of energy. that leads me to say the most important thing about this report and about this discussion. forests are of enormous importance to all of us. so we must not have anything, and we must not accept anything, but a holistic and self—standing forest strategy. that is what we need. i really want to use this opportunity to thank everyone. it was an exceptionally heated process for an own—initiative report, with almost 500 amendments and lengthy and numerous shadows meetings. i think that what the commissioner just said sums it up best. we need to strike a balance, and i think that this report gives members a chance to do that.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today. the final vote will take place on wednesday, 7 october 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the eu must support a sustainable forest strategy, which is essential to ensure the economic viability and competitiveness of the forestry and forestry sector. the new strategy is also important for providing solutions for climate as well as biodiversity, bioenergy and the promotion of the bio- and green economy. it is important that eu forestry strategies are consistent with the objectives of the green paper, while remaining within the competence of the member states. the eu's ability to respond to emergencies and prevent disasters, such as fires or floods, must also be improved. the resolution also recommends the wider use of wood as a sustainable building material, calls for a stronger fight against illegal logging and calls for the promotion of sustainable forestry worldwide.
in writing. for the european commission's forestry strategy, parliament needs to provide a guideline to help shape the next forestry strategy in a balanced way. european forests have several very important dimensions, all of which need to be addressed in a balanced way. the environmental dimension is very clear to everyone, because forests are a very important global asset as a carbon sink. in many eu member states, the number of forests has been drastically reduced for a variety of reasons, mainly industrial and agricultural development and population growth. but there are also countries in europe where forests cover more than half the territory and are in good condition. estonia, together with the other nordic countries, is a good example. to maintain the health of forests, they must be managed wisely. forest management is the management of a renewable resource, so the importance of forest restoration must be considered in addition to the forest area. in many member states, reforestation is a very important source of livelihood and provides jobs for many different industries. the commission's forestry strategy must emphasise the importance of forest management, as a clear message about the sector's prospects and potential must be conveyed to the half a million workers involved in forest restoration and the 2.6 million people associated with the sector more broadly. forests also have a very strong socio-cultural dimension, which every nation has a duty to protect. forests are important to estonia, as thousands of people fled the soviet occupation to the forest. the forest also organized resistance to the occupation regime. the last of the forest brothers, august sabbe, was killed by the kgb in 1978, meaning that the forest hid him for over 30 years.
in writing. the promotion of sustainable forest management in the eu through the implementation of the eu forest strategy and rural development measures under the common agricultural policy has had a positive impact on forests and their condition and livelihoods in rural areas, on the biodiversity of eu forests and has increased the benefits for the forestry sector. however, a balanced approach to sustainable forest management is still needed to ensure that the ecological condition of forests, the health and resilience of ecosystems are improved and that forests are better able to adapt to a changing climate. this is particularly important for highly forested countries such as lithuania. the eu forest strategy should promote and support the sharing of best practices related to the implementation of sustainable forest management, the training of forest workers and managers, the performance of the forestry sector and better cooperation between member states in cross-border actions and information sharing to ensure the growth of healthy european forests. there is a need to increase awareness of the importance of sustainable forest management and to provide opportunities for the development, implementation and coordination of awareness-raising campaigns on the multi-functionality of forests and the multiple benefits of sustainable forest management from an economic, social and environmental perspective. all european citizens should be aware of the richness of this heritage and the need to manage, conserve and sustainably use our resources.
rapporteur. – madam president, this is a historic moment. the european climate law is indeed the cornerstone of the european green deal, as it enshrines into legislation the union’s objective to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 at the latest. the climate neutrality objective brings with it a transition of historic dimension, which europe will undergo in the coming decades. we are moving away from our history as the coal and steel union and heading towards climate neutrality. the report that we will see voted on this afternoon improves the commission’s proposal on a number of points and, colleagues, we are responsible for this; we need to listen to citizens, scientists and the movement of young people and do our very best to improve this legislation and make it responsible for our time. the report sets a binding target for the union and the member states to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. thereafter, emissions shall be negative. everyone must contribute to reach the climate neutrality objective. this is something we need to do together. the report proposes a strengthened 2030 climate target of 60% in order to be in line with science and give europe the best possible chance of reaching its climate neutrality objective and respecting the paris agreement. we need to have a higher target for 2030. the commission has proposed a net target of at least 55% for 2030, meaning approximately between 51% and 53% in real emission reductions, depending on how much greenhouse gas our natural sinks will be able to remove from the atmosphere. this is not good enough. we need a stronger target if we are serious about respecting the paris agreement and our own responsibility to reach climate neutrality. this is also why the report includes a new eu climate target for 2040. this is a crucial element to ensure that europe is on track to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. to take responsible climate action, we also need to know exactly how much europe can emit without undermining the union’s commitment under the paris agreement. therefore, the report also calls for the introduction of a greenhouse gas budget setting out the total remaining quantity of greenhouse gas emissions as co2 equivalent that could be emitted up to 2050 without putting at risk the 1.5 degree temperature goal. elements of social fairness and solidarity have been strengthened throughout the regulation. for the s&d group, this is fundamental. we will only succeed in our climate efforts if everyone is with us, if no one is left behind. it must be socially just and we must make sure that it’s for all the citizens. i would like to underline the importance of the reference to the 2015 international labour organization’s guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies. we also emphasise the importance of social partners, which i’m very proud of. there are also strong provisions on science, not to mention the set-up of an independent climate council at european level: the european climate change council (eccc), which, with the creation of climate advisory bodies at member state level, will assess whether we are on track to achieve the climate neutrality objective and identify opportunities to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the carbon sequestration potential. furthermore, the provisions for climate adaptation have been strengthened, with increased consideration of vulnerable groups. i will conclude by saying this is a good proposal. i would like to thank my colleagues, all the shadows, all the people that worked with this legislation, the advisors, and also the interpretation, which has been good, the technical advisers. thank you so much. no one is left behind. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - i have to go. as history has shown, radicalism that ignores reality very often leads to the opposite of what it seeks to achieve, and often ends in disaster. we, the members of the european parliament, should not focus on populist bidding for the largest reduction in greenhouse gases in the shortest possible time, but should look for realistic scenarios that are acceptable to all member states and their societies. such scenarios that do not frustrate the achievement of other union objectives, such as the recovery of the economy after the pandemic, the strengthening of its competitiveness, its technological sovereignty. the objective of climate neutrality, agreed by the european council last december, is to apply at union level. it is assumed that the time horizon for reaching net zero emissions in individual countries will be different. this is in line with the principles of a just transition, which must take into account the different initial conditions of the transformation of national economies. the draft regulation also envisages the eu as a whole achieving climate neutrality by 2050. that is a realistic position and one which should be supported by parliament.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all i have to apologise to members for being late. it’s because of the college – it finished and i immediately came here. i’m really happy to discuss with you today what is i think a landmark of the european green deal, the climate law to turn europe’s political climate ambitions into binding legislation. moving towards a climate-neutral future is the right thing to do for our children and future generations especially now, and everything we’re doing is science—based, so actually those who deny the science are being ideological, not the ones who embrace science! (applause) if we invest hundreds of billions of euros in rescuing our economy from this pandemic we must not throw money at the old economy. we must guide our societies to a cleaner and healthier future, one that our children can embrace with hope, not fear. we must be very clear and very honest about this. this transition will affect our daily lives: from the cars we drive, from the houses we live in, from the jobs we will have in the future. i’m confident that we can make it if we do two things: if we set ourselves a sound direction and stand together as a continent in mastering the challenge. the climate law will set the direction by making our 2050 climate neutrality goal binding. that provides certainty at a time when so much is uncertain. i want to stress three points. this is a union—wide commitment to climate neutrality with a just transition for all. the target is also economy—wide: all sectors must contribute, no exceptions granted, and it’s a domestic objective delivered in europe to inspire the world to follow our lead, and we see across the world other nations following the lead already. for 2030 we need to increase our ambition if we want a realistic pathway to climate neutrality. our proposal to increase the 2030 target to at least 55% emissions reductions compared to 1990 was not just conjured from thin air. we did a thorough impact assessment, as i had promised to this house. i have to say i’m really impressed by the work the commission services have done on this. i know that this proposal goes too far for some, and for others not far enough, but the target is ambitious. we propose to reduce our emissions over the next decade by as much as we have achieved over the past quarter century. the target is well founded in science. it shows responsibility towards developing countries, but doesn’t take on an undue burden given the ambition needed from other industrial nations. i think it’s the right target. just as important as the goal is the realisation that we’re in this together. the transition is just – has to be just or there will just be no transition. we must help households in regions that are at risk of being left behind. we will soon propose a renovation wave to lower energy bills and fight energy poverty. we will continue developing our just transition mechanism to deliver a new future to regions where the path towards climate neutrality is particularly steep. this is our message to the miners in asturias, the workers on baltic peatlands and many, many others. we will stand with you to make the journey to climate neutrality with us. let me address the role of forests and other landscapes that remove co2 from our atmosphere. the point of climate neutrality in 2050 is that by that year we must balance co2 emissions with removals – taking out what we put in, if you prefer a cruder expression. the sink in our forests is declining, shrinking. rather than waiting for 2050 we want to recognise the role of natural carbon sinks now. including the full sink in our climate target in line with our international obligations will drive us to take better care of our forests and sinks so that they can play this vital role and also give an opportunity to rural communities. this is no accounting trick or cheat code: it’s the reality of how we neutralise the negative impact of human activity on our planet and care for our natural habitat. honourable members, you have discussed for many months how to fix the pathway between 2030 and 2050, including an intermediate target for 2040. there is criticism of our proposal to use delegated acts to check whether we’re on track for that pathway. let me repeat today, and you know this is my opinion: what counts is that we reach our goals. i’m open to discuss which instruments should get us there. please help me find a solution that we can all support. tomorrow you will vote on turning our climate ambitions into binding law. the commission will be an honest broker for negotiations between parliament and council. we will push for an ambitious seven—year budget to finance our climate ambitions, but i want to thank parliament, and ms guteland in particular, already for the work on this historic piece of legislation, the climate law. ambitious climate action is what we need in europe today and in the world. let’s set our pathway towards climate neutrality as quickly as possible and start walking along this path together as quickly as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, for months, and even years, youngsters have taken to the streets and called for action on climate change. now, when these same young people have started to vote, we are witnessing green waves, country by country. our youth knows what is the challenge of our time, but do we as current politicians? today we have the chance to vote for something historic: the european climate law. this law will set the ambition for the eu’s climate actions in the coming decades. transport and tourism are responsible for nearly a third of europeans’ greenhouse gas emissions. transport, and in particular maritime and aviation, is the only sector where emissions are still higher than in 1990, with more than a 25% increase. i expect that the upcoming mobility strategy and the legislative proposals by the commission will deeply transform the sector. this is crucial to stay below 1.5 degrees warming so that future generations will have a planet to live on. for that, parliament needs to send a strong signal today and vote for the most ambitious, science—based targets.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments. madam president, yesterday president sassoli paid tribute to the victims of the bad weather and floods that have struck northern italy and south-eastern france, where i live. scientists are adamant that these events will increase unless we take strong action to combat climate change. in my region and in italy, last november, there were already floods. we must vote for a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030. i would like those who refuse to listen to the scientists to come and explain to the inhabitants and the people of my region that the lives of their loved ones do not matter, that the destruction of their homes does not matter, that you would rather sacrifice their lives than a few points of growth. climate law must be compatible with the paris agreement's goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, it's a matter of survival. the climate law is the cornerstone of the european green deal. as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i would like to emphasise the role that territories have to play in the fight against climate change. we must help them to do so by setting ambitious targets and aligning european funds with this objective. by directing investment towards solutions, we can create quality jobs that cannot be outsourced in our regions. we have a duty to do everything we can to prevent the disastrous effects of climate change. let's listen to the scientists, let's listen to the young people on the street, let's live up to our challenges.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president timmermans, thanks to this regulation, europe will be the first continent to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. the climate law is the first law in the world and it is the translation of our political commitment, which puts us irreversibly on the road to a more sustainable future. it is at the heart of the european green deal, offers predictability and transparency for industry and investors, guides our green growth strategy and ensures a smoother and more equitable transition. we are turning words into actions, to show our fellow citizens that we mean business. the climate law is also a message to our international partners: this is the decisive year for raising the level of global ambition in pursuing the objectives of the paris agreement and for finally shaking the consciences of those countries, first of all the united states and china, which have so far evaded their responsibilities. i am very proud that parliament and the commission have acted quickly: a sign that there is no more time to lose. i would have expected a little more ambition from the commission, to be honest. but i hope that in today's vote parliament, and in the next steps the member states, will be guided in their future choices not by selfishness but by science. now more than ever, we cannot afford to fail, and the pandemic has made it crystal clear that the relationship between the environment and health is inextricable. the lockdown, if it comes, will no longer be able to delay the implementation of the european green deal: the recovery will only be successful if it is green, and it is our responsibility to implement a development strategy that provides for a just and fair transition for all. we must vote this bill with conviction, remain consistent with our ideals and vote an ambitious text.
madam president, 2020 has stopped, but the climate crisis has not, and the european parliament has not. today we are transposing into the legal order our commitments under the paris agreement. this climate law sets out a clear and ambitious roadmap, a stable and predictable legal framework for economic operators, certainty, and also the recognition of the right of our citizens to a healthy and habitable planet. this climate act, in a deep economic crisis marked by covid, should help us to make all economic growth and job recovery climate-driven, and to make european recovery funds invest in clean technologies, innovation and new technologies. today, colleagues, this climate act bridges the gap between scientific warnings and political action. today this parliament is aligning itself with science. today we also reconcile with our children.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the successive droughts have had a dramatic impact on the lives of my family and many other european citizens. these are not my words, but those of maurice feschet, a simple farmer from the drôme region, who had the courage to file a complaint in 2018 against the eu's climate inaction. i want to make his voice heard here because he is, for me, the symbol of all those whose lives are so strongly affected by climate change, those whose lives are threatened by the natural disasters generated by our development model, those who ultimately matter so little. because what are we talking about when we talk about climate law? what, numbers? no, we're talking about lives, people's lives, our own lives to protect. we don't have time to wait. the next ten years are crucial: storms, drought, the threat of glaciers, entire territories plunged into energy poverty call for action to meet the dangers. to save the climate, we must aim for at least 65% by 2030. everybody knows that! so setting low-level goals is not a good idea. let's be responsible, let's be realistic about this.
madam president, everything in this law, from its legislative history to its content, needs to be revised. the 60% target for reducing emissions by 2030 is not based on scientific evidence. the fact that it is binding on the member states does not respect their sovereignty or the principle of subsidiarity, and there is some question as to what the sanctions regime will be. as for the european carbon budget, how will it be calculated and who will determine it? your eagerness to make europe the first carbon neutral continent is ideological. our current trajectory of 40% is already almost impossible to achieve. if you raise it to 60%, you will impose a punitive ecology on firms and households weakened by the crisis, to the sole benefit of our competitors. the means must be provided for its ambitions: the use of nuclear energy, confidence in technological innovation, the fight against unfair foreign competition and a gradual energy transition taking into account national realities. climate neutrality must be a collective effort at the level of states, guided by legitimate environmental concerns but also by the interests of our peoples.
madam president, a year ago our parliament declared a climate and environmental emergency. the events that have taken place since then have demonstrated the effect of this urgency. it is the drought that is draining the rivers of our childhood, the forests that are burning across the globe, the floods that have recently ravaged southern france and italy. today we can live up to this, we must set in the climate act a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by at least 65%. this is not a coincidence, it is the number that the united nations believes will meet our international commitments and limit the temperature rise to 1.5°c. we must include a reduction which does not include the absorption reductions from natural carbon sinks. we must say frankly and clearly to mrs von der leyen that we do not have time today for small circles and calculations which are designed to mask a lack of ambition and to satisfy a few well-placed economic interests. we have no time to wait, we have to act now, we have no time to play, so let's live up to the situation.
madam president, this climate bill teaches us two lessons. the first is the political will to make the eu the first continent in the world to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. the second is that in order to achieve this, two visions clash. on the one hand, there are those who have an ambitious but realistic vision, as we do in the epp with peter liese. the impact study we had requested showed that a target of at least 55% was the most realistic way forward and would bring visibility to our companies and industries that will need to engage in this transition. so we are supporting the 55%, of course. on the other hand, there are those who are in the political arena, that is the position of my renew colleagues, the socialists, the greens or the far left, that is the position of a race to the chandelier which consists of asking for 5% more than its right-wing neighbour in order to appear as green as possible, as ambitious as possible. the preservation of our jobs, the adaptation measures that our companies and industries will have to take, the risk of relocation and therefore of carbon leakage, all this comes second. my dear colleagues, you will have understood that my choice between these two visions is clear. i refuse to be in ideology, in political posters or in incantations. the ecological transition involves all of us, it must be credible to be feasible, it is the only condition for its success.
madam president, while the ambition of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 on european territory is a laudable objective, the european union is once again faced with a wall of contradictions. how can we simultaneously advocate the tightening of carbon taxes in europe on both sides, the great move of the world through the multiplication of free trade agreements. it is not the taxpayers' responsibility to pay to compensate in any way for the harmful effects of your economic policy. it is this policy itself that must be changed by the reappropriation of the premises, the short circuit and economic patriotism. you want to ideologically reduce the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix in favour of other renewable energies which are more expensive and less efficient: this is a political and ecological mistake. nuclear energy is the cheapest, most decarbonised energy available today, and is essential for the massive development of hydrogen energy sources, which the european union is rightly promoting. i call on you not to blame the people, we are the best students in the world, the cleanest and the most environmentally friendly. the ecological transition must not be punitive or sacrificial, but rather a means of opening up new markets for our industry and, rightly, of improving the quality of life of europeans by re-rooting them in their environment.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the small mountainous territory of nagorno-karabakh has been on fire in recent weeks, reigniting an old conflict. as in syria, libya and the eastern mediterranean, it is erdoğan who has just reopened a conflict on the european frontier. erdogan's desire to establish himself as the leader of a political islam, to rebuild the ottoman empire, is obvious. it is unashamedly pursuing its expansionist policy. we must sanction and isolate the erdogan regime, but also take back the initiative. the conflict in nagorno-karabakh is of course caused by the configuration of the internal borders of the former ussr, cleverly organized in such a way as to entangle the peoples, to multiply indefinitely the identity references to better establish the overwhelming totalitarianism of communism. the union, although primarily concerned, has not been able to take advantage of this situation to propose solutions that are both realistic, just and peaceful. today, if azerbaijan has chosen, by taking the initiative of the offensive, to revive this conflict, it is because its leaders have received assurances of support from the turkish president. today, by pushing azerbaijan into confrontation, erdoğan is again choosing to launch a major challenge to european countries by taking on armenia more directly, with which we share so many historical and human ties. erdoğan, like a criminal returning to the scene of his crime, shows how little he cares about the genocide of 1.5 million armenians perpetrated by those who came before him. words are not enough, mr. borrell. what is the european union waiting for to put a final end to turkey's accession process? our colleague just reminded us, he's still challenging us in cyprus. as thucydides said, men are made to despise those who spare them and respect those who give them nothing.
mr president, mr high representative, there are several ways of looking at the resumption of the conflict in nagorno-karabakh. the first, the most diplomatic, is to support the minsk group and its co-chairs, the united states, russia and france, which is what we all do. the second, more realistic, requires facing the world. the conflict is heating up as america looks the other way. but it got bogged down, because russia was intent on leaving open wounds in all corners of its former empire. this is not good. finally, the third point concerns emotion and it is with great emotion and concern that i see turkey becoming militarily involved against the armenian population. mr high representative, you are a diplomat and you preach neutrality, but let me express my anger and my sorrow at seeing turkey, a country which continues to refuse to recognise the armenian genocide, militarily taking part in the armenian population. it is time for peace to return, it is also time to recognize the wounds of history.
mr president, for more than ten days now, azerbaijani forces have been waging an offensive against nagorno-karabakh. in addition to the military casualties, many civilians have been forced to seek refuge in neighbouring armenia as a result of rocket fire, bombing and suicide drones. behind this localized conflict, one has to be blind not to see the hand of sultan erdoğan. at the risk of offending, i should like to say that you, the leaders of the european union, are constantly trying to avoid opposition, and you are trembling with fear at the thought of imposing real sanctions on turkey. you talk about a powerful europe when it comes to wind turbines or trade deals, but you let an islamic autocrat act with impunity in an imperial space. you give lessons in morality and the rule of law, but you provide subsidies to a country, erdogan's turkey, which today refuses to recognize the armenian genocide, which should make you think about the religious and ethnic dimension of the ongoing clashes. sanction and finally bring down sultan erdoğan and you will see that nagorno-karabakh, libya and the eastern mediterranean will find themselves more at peace.
mr president, we hear about armenia, war, nagorno-karabakh, and we naturally think of the genocide which is still denied by the state which perpetrated it. in the face of these battles, we remember the armenian pain, but beware, stalin had drawn the internal borders of the ussr, so that each republic had one or more minorities and the kremlin could divide and rule. if we now accept that these international borders are being called into question, the whole of the former soviet era will soon be in flames. so it is not a question of taking sides, but of bringing the belligerents back to the negotiating table. it's going to be tough. yes, it will be. but all the more reason for us europeans to get involved with the united states and with russia, which needs us because from minsk to bishkek to stepanakert, the fact is that mr putin is losing more and more control.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, venezuela is a subject that comes up in this house as frequently as the rain in brussels or the compromises between the epp and the socialists. i said in december 2019 that nicolás maduro's policy was not mine, and neither was the policy of us sanctions that impoverished the venezuelan population. the european union should have a different, calmer voice that is neither utilitarian nor collectivist. in the debate last july, i justified my vote on the amendments concerning venezuelan migrants by saying that i abstained because the text was unbalanced and supported juan guaidó as the european union's candidate for the leadership of venezuela, whereas it is up to the people of that country to find the political compromises necessary to restore calm. and in january 2019, i was insisting: "do us sanctions help the venezuelan people?" do they not, on the contrary, prove that behind humanitarian displays there is a political will to exercise cultural and economic hegemony in this part of the world? other nothing has changed since then! six debates and 13 resolutions. today parliament has simply added a debate which will change nothing, which will advance nothing and which will bring no new elements.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, iran is a major regional power in the middle east. tehran is sometimes worried for very objective reasons and sometimes for causes that have nothing to do with international law. the voice of the european union is unfortunately not being heard. firstly, because we were humiliated by the us withdrawal from the vienna agreements. secondly, because we are looking the other way at the arab powers, almost never remembering that they sometimes do worse than iran. finally, because we are not free in iran because of the unacceptable extraterritoriality of american law. the european union has no interest in accepting iran's ambition to form a shiite crescent from tehran to beirut, but it will only be credible if it acts with equal vigour against ottoman imperialism or against the manipulation of sunni populations by gulf money. the european nations know the middle east better than the united states, and it is time we broke free from the shackles of nato and atlanticism and regained credibility and independence on issues in the region. yes, we must establish a dialogue with iran, a dialogue which does not exclude any of the burning issues such as the disarmament of iraqi militias or the maintenance of the death penalty for apostasy. we must, however, think of this dialogue not as excluding iran from international diplomacy, but on the contrary as being artisans of peace and dialogue in this region.
madam president, mr high representative, as you have said, the european union remains fully committed to the nuclear issue, and that is a good thing, because we know that at the heart of this issue is security in the region, but more generally, international security. but international cooperation with iran - and you have also said this - cannot leave the question of human rights in the dark, because in this matter iran is far, far from the desired objectives. october 10th is world day against the death penalty and yet iran is the country that executes the most, including young people who were sentenced as children; girls, sentenced to nine years, boys, sentenced to 15 years, waiting on death row to be executed at 18. iran imposes the death penalty on people for crimes such as treason, espionage, prostitution, adultery, apostasy, and protests against poverty or corruption. confessions are extracted under torture, and this is the case with ahmadreza djalali at the moment. in iran, defending human rights or opposing the death penalty is punishable by more than 10 years in prison. this is the case for many activists, such as nasrine sotoudeh, and narges mohammadi, who is in exile. yes, international cooperation with iran is important, yes, dialogue is important, but it must also be about pressing for human rights and demanding the immediate release of those who have only been peacefully exercising their fundamental rights.
madam president, thank you, mr borrell, and thank you also for your efforts to maintain the joint comprehensive plan of action. but we must demand that the iranian authorities stop their human rights violations. nasrin sotoudeh has been close to death by starting a hunger strike to denounce the situation of political prisoners. but behind it and behind the political prisoners is the iranian civil society, against which the iranian regime is at war. repression in iran is institutionalized: prosecutors support false allegations, judges hand down sentences based on statements obtained under torture, and executions are daily, both judicial and extrajudicial. we must therefore make it clear to the iranian regime that it must answer for its crimes. and we must support a fact-finding mission within the human rights council to go to iran, visit the prisons and make a report that gives us an idea of the brutal reality of the iranian people.
madam president, mr borrell, do you know mrs aras amiri? she worked for the british council in the uk, where she was involved in promoting the art and culture of iran. in march 2018, she was arrested at tehran airport and sentenced to ten years in prison. mr borrell, the european union must support it. the case of aras amiri shows us how much culture scares authoritarian regimes. unfortunately, amiri is not the only iranian citizen who has upset her government with her cultural commitment. let us remember that in 2016, golshifteh farahani, who played anna karenina so well at the paris theatre, had to leave her country to continue her artistic practice. imagine, a masterpiece of russian literature worn by an iranian actress in paris. culture thus transcends borders and moves beyond cultural differences. culture is a world vocabulary, said marjane satrapi. you who fight every day for cultural freedom, do not forget, never forget how much the regimes fear you, never forget that in culture lies your power. thank you for your courage.
madam president, secrecy, corruption, lies, fraud, fiscal engineering, and all this with the connivance of other companies, governments and the so-called market regulators. look, we have two options. we can be shocked by this particular case of wirecard or we can assume that this is not an isolated example, but a clear example of the casino economy we live in. self-regulation is not working. this case proves it again. we need binding, binding rules with real and effective penalties for companies that do not comply with their tax, labour or environmental obligations. blacklists, such as the one drawn up by the european union, which is used to whitewash tax havens, and which the cayman islands left a few days ago, are of no use. the failure of the european union's measures to combat tax evasion has been apparent for many years. and the question is clear: are these isolated errors or a conscious policy of collusion with the fraudsters? (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one clear lesson we have learned from the failure of wirecard, one of the biggest financial crashes in the history of the european union, it is this: the auditing industry needs immediate reform. an industry too often embroiled in serious conflicts of interest: audits fail because they are paid for by the same audited company; external reviews, which are meant to help investors, end up being influenced by the companies they're reviewing, just like international rating agencies were during the financial crisis a decade ago. who controls the controllers? i want to remind you that fair financial reporting is a public good, but paradoxically it is under the thumb of the private sector, which should control it. yet in europe this subject seems to be of no interest, at least until the next financial scandal, when we will all be surprised and grieved again. the conflict of interest of the rating agencies can and must be resolved. we need a european, public rating agency, subject to strict, clear and stringent auditing regulations, with heavy and dissuasive penalties. this is what we want, as proposed by the commission: the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, to play a more active role in the world, to play a more active role in the world, to play a more active role in the world.
madam president, mr executive vice-president, mr minister, as mairead mcguinness said at her hearing last friday, the wirecard scandal is an intolerable case of fraud and a failure of our supervisory model. it is unbearable that wirecard has been protected for so many years, despite questions from investigative journalists, whistleblowers and even investors. in a truly european model, esma would have actively asked these questions itself, without any concessions to the national authorities. reforming the governance of the european supervisory authorities to strengthen their independence from national supervisors is one of the specific demands of parliament in the report on the emu. i am counting on the german presidency and the commission to undertake this ambitious and urgent reform.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i am delighted that tomorrow the european parliament will be voting on its vision of the capital markets union. parliament has decided to give voice to citizens, consumers and savers, who are often less well represented in the debates of experts. on behalf of the renew group, i have identified three main priorities for the capital markets union to be both more inclusive, i.e. to provide innovative financing for smes and the social and solidarity economy, to be at the heart of the post-covid recovery and to be a guarantee of europe's strategic autonomy. clearly, the commission's action plan published at the end of september is not up to par, in particular, to protect our savers and to respond to the wirecard scandal. we must ensure that savings stop sleeping in accounts and are injected directly into the economy. it is also necessary that every saver directly contributes to building the more sustainable and resilient european economy of tomorrow. you can count on the renew group and the european parliament to continue to pursue this ambition because every citizen must become a consumer: a true consumer actor. i would like to thank the rapporteur, isabel benjumea, for her attentive and cooperative participation in a very rich and intensive discussion in record time. that's good. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report tomorrow.
madam president, when money no longer has the value that gold or silver gives it, it is based on the sovereignty of the issuing power. that is why for a century money has been issued by the states that have the monopoly of power. private companies are now competing with governments for power. to create the ideal consumer, subject to the advertising injunction, they intend to break this link with the sovereign power of money. to complete the establishment of the total market society, they want to privatize the currency and are empowered to issue their own currency. the movement in this direction is represented by bitcoin. even though bitcoin has no liberating power, it is not a currency and is similar to a ponzi scheme. it's only worth it if you believe it's going to be worth something. as for libra, it remains a private currency and has nothing to do with the project of several central banks wishing to issue one or more electronic currencies, but whose governance will be that of the issuing institutions, ultimately based on the sovereignty of the state. that is why we are in favour of this text. we must prevent the development of private currencies competing with those of the states to protect savings and the security of transactions. we must clarify the regulatory framework for the issuing of money to avoid a further democratic setback.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, this is the story of big banks, big fortunes and tax havens that believe they are above the law. this story is the story of the financial scandal of fincen and its 2.1 trillion transactions, each one more shady than the last. tax fraud, tax evasion, money laundering, it is a story that we know by heart, so much it is repeated, always with the same protagonists. it's the story of the panama papers, the paradise papers, the swiss leaks, the list goes on and on. what has been revealed by the tremendous work of investigative journalists is therefore not a simple drift. it is a perfectly oiled system, the culprits of which are precisely identified. the big international banks first, including hsbc, deutsche bank, société générale, who organise the dubious financial transfers with impunity. the tax havens are the same: the cayman islands, cyprus, hong kong, the virgin islands, which receive the dirty money in a transparent manner. and to deal with it, the eu's finance ministers found nothing better this week than to remove the cayman islands from the blacklist of tax havens. it is true that the cayman islands have not been singled out in all the financial scandals of recent years. and without any known tax havens, particularly european ones such as ireland or luxembourg, your pseudo blacklist is mainly a carte blanche for financial trickery. so how much longer will we have to endure the crocodile tears of the leaders who cry out for scandal but never give themselves the means to stop it. citizens are fed up with this class tolerance of white collar financial crime while they are asked to pay the cost of the crisis. it's time to go get the money where it is.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, organized crime, high-level escapees, terrorists, powerful men orbiting the political and economic world: these are the actors who move rivers of money and do business, exploiting the dark side of the world's financial system. according to the fincen investigation, this is due to tax havens, offshore companies, and the prominent role played by big international banks, some of which are operating in europe. in the european union we have adopted the sixth anti-money laundering directive: however, there is still much work to be done in implementing sector legislation, screening and monitoring systems, and cooperation with regulators and law enforcement authorities in order to effectively stem a phenomenon that is constantly evolving. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is able to comply with the requirements of the directive. we cannot allow inaction to combat these criminal activities to fuel economic inequality, distort market rules and drain resources that are meant to fund essential services for citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fincen papers are another example of how deep the swamp of money laundering, corruption and financial crime is and how vast the need for collective action is. we can only win the fight against money laundering, corruption and crime together - globally and in europe. around 2 trillion euros - that's about five percent of the world's economic output - are laundered worldwide every year. but even here in the european union, it's 110 billion euros, which is very, very close to the annual budget of the eu. the citizens are therefore right to ask themselves: how many more revelations are needed before we finally turn off the taps on the criminal networks? it's a little hairy. there is still a contradiction between regulation, commitment and implementation. the fourth and fifth money laundering directives have still not been implemented. there's still a stained carpet. and we still need more controls, staff and sanctions, a uniform european approach, a money laundering regulation instead of a directive, a common money laundering supervisor - perhaps even an authority - a european financial police, a european reporting agency. ladies and gentlemen, we are finally doing what we have been committing ourselves to for years.
madam president, as manon aubry said, this is not the first time we have had luxleaks, panama papers, paradise papers, and i agree with sven giegold – transparency is a wonderful thing. but let’s face it, this story has been told a thousand times. we in this room know it; ordinary people are still confused by the tools that are used. they don’t usually have trusts in jersey, a swiss bank account or a shell company in the netherlands, and they don’t get it. but we must realise – certainly the people that are aware – that this is used mainly by the rich: terrorists, criminals, the rich. they own the hidden wealth in the world, at least half of the hidden wealth according to calculations by economists, and it’s not even the one percent that owns the hidden wealth in offshore jurisdictions. it’s the one percent of the one percent that owns half of the hidden wealth in the world. it is very clear from the fincen files that action needs to be taken and not enough action has been taken so far. because now bankers blindly forward transactions to their financial investigations unit (fiu), only to find out later that they have facilitated fraudulent transactions. and these fius on the other hand are flooded with information but lack the means and resources to keep up. if transactions are investigated and found to breach law, the money has long been gone. take former president yanukovych, who was able to transport billions out of ukraine, or take former president’s daughter isabel dos santos, by now the richest woman in africa. she is also spending her days in luxury, not in angola but in russia and other places. so what we need is to staff and strengthen fius, and of course, fius need to exchange information on close cooperation, but in addition we need to make banks act upon their role as gate-keepers. forwarding alone is not enough. banks need to know their customers and when they find suspicious activities, press pause. the point is, of course, that making private actors fulfil public roles is hard. it cannot be done without clear rules, strict oversight and very tough penalties. we need to work on that now so that we can avoid former dictators spending their days in luxury.
madam president, scandals like this one regularly undermine the confidence of european citizens in our financial and tax systems. we can react, and we are doing so this morning, but above all we must act and respond to this sense of inequity, injustice and fiscal opacity at the global level and also, it must be said, sometimes within the european union. and we will all be judged on what we do or do not do, the commission will be judged on that, the council will be judged on that and we, parliament, will also be judged on that. we have recently given a strong political signal by creating a subcommittee specifically responsible for these matters within our committee on economic and monetary affairs. a commission that will be permanent and not temporary, to fight against tax fraud and evasion and so that everyone, starting with the most powerful, pays what he owes, where he owes. and you can count on our vigilance in implementing the commission's ambitious tax package. you can count on our vigilance to call for opinions on the issues that have been blocked in the council for years, such as the common corporate tax base. and more generally, you can count on our determination to ask the council to put an end to the unanimity rule in tax matters, which is obviously a block and prevents us from moving forward.
mr president, quality and patient safety must always be our priority. residents of long-term care facilities, particularly in hospitals for dependent elderly, have been particularly, overwhelmingly, affected by the covid-19 outbreak, affected by the disease and affected by the lockdown. we must learn from this crisis and take the necessary measures: strengthen surveillance and institutional preparedness. this is yet another example of the need for a europe of health and the strengthening of the european centre for disease control. we need to re-organise and re-structure these long-term care facilities. this is the share to be taken by the member states. finally, we must improve the training and working conditions of staff, in accordance with commissioner schmit. and then there are the carers, professionals and family members, who work tirelessly every day to support the most vulnerable, especially our elderly. thank you for starting this necessary debate, it's not just a health issue, it's a human dignity issue.
mr president, patients in long-term care facilities have paid a heavy price to the pandemic, and the high number of deaths is also due to the drastic isolation imposed on these vulnerable people. these units are attached to a hospital and care for highly dependent people with impaired cognitive or behavioural abilities, whose condition requires constant medical supervision. covid-19 has only increased the fragility of these patients who often have advanced cancer, unstable heart or respiratory conditions, or alzheimer's disease. according to the european social network, covid-19 has disproportionately affected older people and had a significant impact on the provision of long-term care. according to the european centre for disease prevention and control, between 30 and 60 per cent of all deaths from covid-19 occurred in these facilities in the early months of the pandemic. public authorities have faced many challenges in continuing to provide long-term care, while overcoming the lack of protective equipment available to care workers. social distancing and isolation have had a negative impact on the health and well-being of residents. social life was disrupted by the installation of closed doors, depriving the sick of their loved ones. the only contact with the outside world was through the nurses, whose face masks did not allow for any facial expressions. the protocol for authorized visits by relatives implies a physical distance of at least 1.5 meters excluding any carnal connection. since the start of the pandemic, the general principle has been to delay new non-emergency admissions, excluding thousands of people from receiving care, but this cannot continue. the time has come for solutions: the development of spaces for patients in isolation and visitors, as well as better cooperation between social and health authorities are measures needed in each care unit. the hypothesis of a second wave of such a deadly nature cannot be settled by a video of mrs von der leyen teaching us to wash our hands. the current health situation requires a complete rethink of the provision of long-term care in europe in order to be better prepared in the event of a new crisis.
mr president, commissioner, people with disabilities, such as dimitri fargette, a young autistic man locked in a psychiatric ward as covid has further isolated him, elderly people in a nursing home, isolated, deceased, bereaved families, infected carers, deceased, such as dr loupiac, for lack of protection, this is the impact of covid on long-term health care. we are told that health is not a competence of the union but, under pressure from the commission, it has become a variable for adjusting national budgets. accounting logic, which deals with the number of beds, of carers, of hospitals in a territory, is responsible for the unpreparedness, the chaos and the deaths. contrary to the commission's recommendations, the dysfunctions of national systems do not stem from a mismatch between supply and demand, which makes no sense when we talk about health, but from a lack of consideration, from organised abuse, which has coordinated the dismantling and privatisation of our public health services. ladies and gentlemen, the measure of the health of a society is how well it cares for the sick, the injured and the unfortunate.
madam president, since we are talking about artificial intelligence and new technologies, thank you very much to the european parliament and also to the paris office for giving the parliamentarians the opportunity to speak from the offices! i also thank the president of parliament. madam president, we are talking about artificial intelligence: it is present in our daily lives, with social networks of course, with everyday algorithms, and also in our economy, of course. by 2022, 42% of tasks will be performed by algorithms, compared to 29% today: an exponential measure. two out of three companies already use artificial intelligence on a daily basis. two reports have already been produced on responsibility and ethics. i would first like to thank mr voss for his important report, because it deals with the question of responsibility in a concrete way, and also with the way in which the major technologies of the future, such as the autonomous car, can be regulated. it also allows for a law that is not fragmented and for legislation and case law that are unified at european level. i would also like to thank mr garcía del blanco, who was also unable to be with you, for his work on the question of ethics, which is first and foremost a question of trust, and in this respect transparency is not an end in itself, it is a tool of trust. i'll take the example of image recognition: used by smartphones, recognition is, when it works, a good tool, but there can be deviations, like when we see a number of police states using this technology. my report, madam president, is also a protection element. after the protection of ethics, after the protection of responsibility, there is also the protection of innovations, which must be protected through intellectual property. we recommend that the commission review this issue and make a reset on this. never before has the planet had so many ideas, with 3.3 million patent applications filed last year, and the number is constantly increasing. the issue in this report is who owns the intellectual property rights to an intellectual work generated entirely by artificial intelligence. my report, without wanting to discourage human creation, makes a number of recommendations. i will mention three. we recommend that we do not grant legal personality to artificial intelligence. we also recommend distinguishing between a creation that was assisted by artificial intelligence and a creation that was entirely generated by artificial intelligence. a big data strategy will also be needed. i know that margrethe vestager and thierry breton are very sensitive to these issues. this strategy is necessary, we need the big data sets so that an ai system can develop and also develop ideas. i will end, madam president, with a topical point which may be outside the scope of my report, but which is also part of this joint debate on digital services legislation (dsa). the french news also shows us how much we will have to think collectively about data regulation: i am talking about the tragedy we experienced in france with the beheading of a teacher who had been lynched on social networks for weeks. for my part, i think we need to end the self-regulation of social networks and end hateful content. we must get out of hypocrisy on this issue. who can accept that twitter accounts are doing propaganda for terrorism for weeks without anyone doing anything? i don't think anyone did. who can accept such a hateful outpouring on all the networks, on facebook? no one did. who can accept the public lynching of a teacher who was just doing his job? no one did. madam president, we must take our responsibilities, together with our colleagues, with the whole of the european representation, with the commission and in its support. it is a question of our values, our european values, our democratic values. it is about regulating social networks and going beyond the question of illegal content by addressing harmful content. i think that's a good way to go. thank you very much for allowing us to incorporate this reflection from the paris office and from other offices for other colleagues. i will speak again if necessary in the debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the dawn of a major technological revolution, that of artificial intelligence. this revolution will change our way of life and we, as legislators, have a duty to anticipate and prepare for the world ahead. some reject technological advances as a whole, they oppose the robotisation of our production systems, they imagine taxes on artificial intelligence and robots, taxes that will harm our competitiveness. they oppose technologies, such as 5g, which are necessary for the digitisation of our societies. they forget that every innovation that europe sees coming, every patent that we do not file, every start-up that leaves our continent is a weapon in the hands of our foreign competitors. others imagine a post-human world where man will be one with the machine, where liberalism will have even changed man's place: these apostles of transhumanism must also be fought. but a synthesis between power and ethics is possible. our greek and christian philosophical heritage allows us to navigate the turbulent waters of modernity. however, this path can only be ours if we get out of our lethargy. the commission must now confront the american and chinese giants of artificial intelligence, prohibit them from collecting our data, encourage the emergence of european giants, invest in research and development, pay our researchers better to avoid their departure to our competitors. but all this can only be done by abandoning your outdated vision of free and undistorted competition. open access to all markets, equality allowing everyone, without any distinction, to expand in europe: all this must stop. and when you've given up on it, you'll need a strategy. you already tried this with the european gaia x data cloud last june, but your dogmas caught up with you and you scrupulously sabotaged this essential project by opening it to non-european companies. ladies and gentlemen, let us not miss this last opportunity to keep our european countries in the concert of nations. the survival of our civilization and our independence is at stake.
mr president, in this joint debate, we have covered a broad range of subjects, but i will emphasise how much artificial intelligence has an impact on structural inequalities in our societies. we ask for legislation guided by strong ethical principles with the protection of citizens and the environment as a priority. regulation must address racial and gender-based discrimination. such systems need to be subject to constant review and analysis. further research is needed on the way in which algorithms perpetuate harmful biases. when content is considered problematic or dangerous, who decides how it’s removed from platforms? we are particularly concerned that introducing a separate category of legal but harmful context will lead to online censorship. the text does not contain clear enough language on upload filters. even more worrying is the call for an electronic identification scheme that paves the way for master variance. this is a huge issue. most of all, we must reiterate the importance of digital education. only by equipping citizens with facts and enabling them to identify disinformation and misinformation can we make sure that we have an inclusive digital transformation.
mr president, i believe that the creation of national strategic plans is the major innovation of the new common agricultural policy. these plans will have the immense merit of enabling each state to adapt the cap to its needs in accordance with the broad common guidelines. they are thus carrying out a kind of partial renationalisation of the cap, which may make it possible to loosen the rigidities of the system and provide an alternative to a return to national agricultural policies. unfortunately, three problems make me doubt the effectiveness of this new agricultural model. firstly, the cap budget will be considerably reduced and it is not the smoke screen of the €8 billion promised by the recovery plan that will make me forget this reality. the amount of basic payment entitlement, calculated per hectare and which farmers are very attached to, will decrease and plunge many farmers into insoluble difficulties. secondly, the amendments tabled in plenary risk unreasonably increasing their environmental impact. the increase in environmental indicators would lead to the widespread use of a private certification system, the cost of which would be borne heavily by farmers. to avoid this drift, i would like to see the overall environmental budget capped at 30% and incentives rather than constraints given priority. finally, this forced greening of european agriculture would only make sense if we simultaneously abandoned globalised free trade, which favours unfair competition from non-european agricultural powers. unfortunately, we are not going to do that, because on 28 april the union concluded an agreement with mexico whereby it agrees to import 20 000 tonnes of mexican beef per year. in reality, the commission does not respect our farmers. the commission has just admitted its cynicism by having parliament vote on 10 july on allocating €653 million from funds for farmers to migrants from turkey. i warn you: if you continue to treat agriculture like the fifth wheel of the chariot, you will not be surprised to see france replace the cap with a french agricultural policy.
mr president, commissioner, the citizens of the european union are looking to us in the hope that the cap, which is a tax-based contribution and represents a third of the european union's budget, will finally meet society's expectations for the next seven years. the european union's consumers are looking to us in the hope that the cap will preserve vital resources, such as the air we breathe every moment, the water we drink, the food we eat, and that all of this will be of good quality. the european union's food consumers are looking to us in the hope that the cap will incorporate the lessons of the covid-19 crisis to promote short-circuits rather than export-oriented agriculture, which is predatory to our ecosystems and to farmers in the south. the european union's eaters and eaters are looking to us for a radical commitment to animal welfare. future generations around the world are looking to us in the hope that the cap, as a potential cornerstone of the european green deal needed to preserve their future, will meet the challenges of the climate emergency, the fight against the collapse of biodiversity and the achievement of global food sovereignty. the farmers of the european union are looking to us in the hope that the cap will finally offer them decent living conditions, decent incomes that could pay for ecosystem services that serve the common interest. the time for the opposition between economic issues and environmental obligations, the old quibble of liberals and conservatives, is outdated, dated, outdated! it's when you're in the red that you have to go green to get out of the red for good. but nothing in the cap is designed to achieve these ambitions. with these findings and expectations in mind, we have the historic responsibility to reject this bad reform of the cap now, both in substance and in form, since the voting timetable is being accelerated unacceptably, thus degrading the democratic process. we must therefore seize the historic opportunity to draft a new cap, one that takes us away from these dangers once and for all and that will meet the challenge of satisfying the best interests of future generations, making the green deal the solid foundation of our children's future, which is also the guiding principle of this mandate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, farmer long before i became a member of parliament, lover of my profession, and for years committed to defending the profession, this exchange on the common agricultural policy which we have this morning is of particular importance to me. i regret that the health situation does not allow us to have a more calm debate. the cap reform we are about to vote on is not perfect and there will be battles to be fought in the next revisions, but unlike some, including our green colleagues and others, who choose the weapon of unfounded criticism, ill-conceived spamming and personal attacks, i believe we must start by recognising what is going in the right direction. the cap of tomorrow will be greener by helping those who have already made transition efforts to make the most of them and by giving greater incentives to those who have not yet done so. but a greener cap cannot be achieved without a more economical cap. we also have a responsibility to defend the aids and tools that will better protect our farmers in the future. i am counting on this house and, during the trilogue, on the commission and the council to show as much ambition on the environment as on aid to young people or on the payment of aid per active farmer. because agriculture is more white than white as some claim, and it needs many women and men who are proud, free and upstanding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is crucial: it will commit us until 2027 to a subject - the common agricultural policy - which covers more than 30% of the budget of the european union. i would like to talk about the 4 million farms that have disappeared in europe in the last 20 years, the farmers who commit suicide, one every two days in my country, france, the extinction of biodiversity, of which intensive farming is now the main cause, climate change and the suffering inflicted on animals in industrial mega-farms. but the commission, the council and the negotiators of the major groups in this parliament have already decided to send us into the wall. their opaque last-minute agreements and their entry into force are about to sign the death warrant of hundreds of thousands of farmers, biodiversity and the climate. so, ladies and gentlemen, do not accept the manoeuvres to silence us and to prevent citizens from getting involved, vote for the rejection amendment to force the commission to revise its copy, because in ten years it will already be too late.
mr president, farmers and citizens have high expectations of the next common agricultural policy. i regret a budget reduction of around €30 billion compared to the 2014-2020 programme, while the agricultural sector is facing new challenges. we should remember that france will pay €26.8 billion to the european union next year - this is a record for us - and that we need the cap. a public debate is currently under way on the issues of the next cap, with relatively little media attention. however, the proposals could be incorporated in the national strategic plan which will be the french version of the cap, thus putting the states, as they should, in the driver's seat of decision-making. our agricultural model must now face the ecological challenge of the green transition, but its implementation needs to be fine-tuned between the new green structure of the cap and the environmental measures included in the f2f strategy. the european union's trade agreements, including the eu-mercosur single free trade agreement, raise legitimate concerns about protecting our quality standards in a sector already heavily impacted by the pandemic and drought. let's hope that the reform planned for the first quarter of 2021 will allow the development of short circuits and a decent income for our farmers.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european union has put pressure on cyprus to get nicosia to agree to participate in the implementation of sanctions against minsk, but has not raised any threats against erdogan's turkey. strong diplomacy with the weak and weak diplomacy with the strong is weak diplomacy: that's what we are. i have not changed my position on belarus: we need calm in minsk, dialogue between the various parties and a return to calm. i would like to focus on one surprising element of the report: the european union claims to know the results of the presidential elections thanks to a sociological survey carried out on an internet platform. these methods seem to me extremely dangerous for democracy. if the european union is now relying on sociological surveys and such meaningless claims to recognize elections, what will happen to elections tomorrow? who can say that this principle will not be applied tomorrow to the elections in poland? we have recognised the election of juan guaidó in venezuela; since then, we've been at an impasse. mr borrell, are we not doing the same thing? if we want to recognize the election of the opposition, are we not in a dead end and excluding ourselves from future discussions?
madam president, i welcome the report drafted by petras auštrevičius, and i want to say a special ‘thank you’ to petras and his team for working closely with all of us across the political groups to draft this very timely report. the situation in belarus remains worrying. the regime continues to engage in repressions and the number of political prisoners is growing, while brave belarusians are defying the regime’s brutality and expressing their desire to live in a free, democratic and sovereign belarus. i welcome the fact that the council has finally adopted targeted sanctions against those responsible for the repressions in belarus. i also hope for the eu global human rights sanctions regime to be adopted as soon as possible so that the eu is better equipped to stand up to those who suppress people’s rights and liberties not just in belarus, but globally. finally, let me also state strongly that the european commission must ensure that no financial assistance is given to the lukashenko regime, and that the adopted eur 50 million and future finances must instead be used to support the people of belarus. the european union must stand with the people of belarus, and support their aspirations to live in a free, democratic, prosperous and sovereign belarus. zhiv’e bielarus!
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you to all members of the european parliament for their observations and propositions. the only thing i can say is that you can be sure that we will continue our support to the belarusian people, to civil society and the independent media, by all the means that we have – financially and politically, through international cooperation and coordination, as some members have said, trying to support the media, trying to isolate the lukashenko government, providing financial support to the people of belarus, avoiding that these resources go through the hands of the government – because we are strongly convinced, as all of you have said, that the belarusian people deserve better and their demand for new, free and fair elections should be answered positively. the only way out of this situation is to hold free and fair elections. it means repeating the elections and the support of this parliament would be vital for this effort. we have been witnessing on the streets of belarus, in minsk and other cities, unprecedented levels of repression for the last two months. we do not recognise the result of these elections but unhappily the belarusian authorities have not accepted any kind of international offer of mediation. we would be very happy to send an observation mission to belarus but for that we need to have the agreement of the government and for the time being, believe me, all of our efforts have been completely useless. i am not negotiating or in touch with the belarusian authorities. i have just made a couple of phone calls trying to express our concern and asking what would be the prospects for the belarusian government to accept an osce mission. the answer – keep in mind that the next president of the osce in office about activities of this kind will be my colleague the swedish minister for foreign affairs – but unhappily, the answer was completely a negative one. finally, let me also stress that we are not going to do that as a geopolitical issue, as some members were worried about. no, it’s not a matter of the belarusian people having to choose between one side or another. it’s a matter of the belarusian people being able to have a political regime that ensures their human rights and to behave and to live in a democratic system that respects their political will. this is what it is all about and i once again thank the rapporteur and the people who have been helping him with this work. i know there are issues that mr auštrevičius mentioned on nuclear safety cooperation. i would like to answer precisely this specific question and inform you that in the council conclusions of 12 october we already stressed the importance of this issue and we urged belarus to comply with the standards and environmental safety of the european union and to follow the european union recommendations in this field without delay. in this regard, technical cooperation among the european union member states and belarusian nuclear safety regulators remains of utmost importance for implementing, reviewing and monitoring an ordered implementation of our standards.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would really like to thank everyone, particularly the shadow rapporteurs, who have been so actively and effectively engaged in the preparations of this recommendation report, which has also been heard by other european institutions and which i truly believe will be implemented. thank you very much for today’s constructive exchange as well. i’m very happy to see the increased interest in and support for pro-democratic events in belarus taking root among our colleagues. we have all been inspired by the bravery of the belarusian people. belarus is our immediate neighbour. its people share european values and aspire to the same freedoms and rights as eu citizens. the european union cannot be a passive observer. for many years, we have been supporting human rights defenders and democratic civil society in belarus. now that they have emerged from the sidelines, with tens of thousands of belarusian people marching through the streets calling for democratic change, they should feel the solidarity and support of the eu and its citizens. as previously mentioned, the european union’s policy towards belarus should be led by the following three acts: solidarity, support and sanctions. the european union should take active measures to prevent hybrid or direct russian intervention in belarus. i call upon the current german presidency of the council to lead the diplomatic efforts to prevent any interference and to support the democratic aspirations of the belarusian people. tens of thousands of belarusians have reminded us of our very important unfinished business: a democratic and united europe where belarus will have its place in time. long live european belarus.
in writing. the actions of the regime of alexander lukashenko are criminal and contrary to european values, democratic principles and the will of the belarusian people. eu-belarus relations need to be thoroughly reviewed as the regime is not complying with its obligations under international law and eu agreements. in the light of the situation in belarus, i consider it important that the european commission suspends the allocation of financial assistance to the state of belarus in the amount of eur 53 million. eu funds must not be allowed to fall into the hands of the belarusian regime. the financial allocations can be restored after new free elections have been held in belarus. the european union must of course support the belarusian people in every way and show solidarity with those who want a democratic future for belarus. at the same time, the eu must decide that the financial support will not fall into the hands of lukashenko and his regime. we could distribute this support through european ngos and funds, such as the european endowment for democracy and the eastern partnership civil society forum. it is hoped that the european commission will ensure that the eu grant does not reach the belarusian authorities.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all members of parliament who have contributed to these recommendations ahead of the 2020 review conference of the parties to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. this upcoming review conference is the next most important event on global non-proliferation and disarmament – at least what remains of it. despite current uncertainty about when the conference will take place, it remains the most important event in the world on non-proliferation and disarmament. we are all concerned about the deteriorating security environment and the continued pressure on the nuclear non-proliferation architecture, as illustrated by the demise of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty. we very much regretted it when it happened and we continue to regret it now. it is essential that all state parties comply with their non-proliferation treaty obligations and fully implement all commitments under the treaty. upholding and preserving the non-proliferation treaty must remain a key priority for european union foreign policy. the european union strongly supports all three pillars of the treaty – non-proliferation, nuclear disarmament and peaceful use of nuclear energy – and we will continue to promote a comprehensive, balanced and full implementation of the 2010 review conference action plan. through intensive diplomatic engagement, backed up by the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), under the council decision we are promoting the ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty and the preparation of negotiations for a fissile material cut-off treaty. we are also proud to support the regional conference in preparation for the non-proliferation treaty review conference. we are also going to double our efforts to uphold international norms, to restore dialogue and trust, and to promote transparency and confidence-building measures. together with member states, we are preparing a strong and forward-looking common european union position for the non-proliferation treaty review conference, and i would like to stress some of the key elements of our position in the context of your report. first, we will continue to call strongly on the united states and russia to extend the new start treaty before february 2021, and we will encourage negotiations for a broader future agreement. second, we welcome the various initiatives for nuclear disarmament, including the stockholm initiative. third, we acknowledge the increased attention given to risk reduction and we hope discussions on this topic gain broad support. the promotion of universal adherence and the entry into force of the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty, as i have already mentioned, remain top priorities for the european union and this conference will also provide an opportunity to address the non-proliferation crisis. we continue to call on the democratic people’s republic of korea to refrain from further provocations and to take concrete steps towards abandoning all its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes. we will also reaffirm our commitment and support for the iran nuclear deal, the so-called joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa). we deeply regret the united states’ 2018 withdrawal from the iran nuclear deal and the subsequent reimposition of un sanctions on iran. at the same time, we are gravely concerned by iran’s activities that are inconsistent with the jcpoa and have severe proliferation implications. finally, let me underline that we also take due note of your proposal to encourage talks on the possibility of a multilateral ballistic missile treaty. thank you for all your comments, observations and proposals. mr mikser, honourable members, i look forward to listening to your views and i thank you for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we must face up to the devastating power of nuclear weapons. we must also ensure that it is not forgotten how different nuclear weapons are from all other weapons. and we know that in the past there was a lot of talk about deterrence and that mutual deterrence would provide a certain level of security. i am sure that this is true to some extent, but even better than deterrence, and much better, is disarmament in the case of nuclear weapons. i am therefore glad that the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons exists. i am not happy that only three eu member states, namely ireland, malta and my home country austria, have already ratified the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. i would also like to remind all of us that a great danger also arises from the fact that non-state actors can acquire nuclear weapons, and the devastating consequences when acts of terrorism are committed with nuclear weapons are almost unimaginable. i think it is right that the united states and russia are negotiating a successor agreement to the start agreement already mentioned by the high representative. i think it's good that it's taking place in the capital of my home country, austria, in vienna. i think it's bad that china is completely withdrawing. i think it is a pity that china is simply not participating in such negotiations, but we should not hold back from reducing nuclear weapons, disarming and yes also believing in a nuclear-weapon-free world one day.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, this year we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt). this treaty is a great success. of the 191 states that have signed up, only nine have nuclear weapons. this is a much smaller number than anyone could have predicted when the treaty entered into force 50 years ago. our biggest challenge now is to make north korea and iran adhere to the treaty. if not, why would any of the other signatory states do so. saudi arabia has already declared it will develop nuclear arms if iran has access to a nuclear bomb, and turkey might very well follow suit. in this environment, we should not blame israel for having nuclear weapons. they are essential for its survival. the eu must continue its efforts to stop iran from developing nuclear weapons, preferably via the joint comprehensive plan of action, but if iran is not willing to honour its engagements, we will have to find other means. north korea will not be persuaded by the west alone. for that, we need the chinese on board. i am afraid that as long as china does not see a north korean nuclear weapon as a problem, it will be difficult to make any substantial progress. to conclude, the european union must continue to promote the npt and that its members honour their commitments. we must pursue this in close cooperation with other democracies, because a rules-based world order is our best chance of ensuring peace.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the subject of nuclear power is the perfect embodiment of the impossibility of a purely european diplomacy. the atomic bomb, the ultimate sovereignty tool, on which deterrence and therefore peace were built, is now, since brexit, the sole property of france within the european union. so unless we share this deterrent with our neighbours, european sovereignty does not exist. germany would of course like to see this, but it is out of the question for the defenders of a europe of nations that we are, that this tool be shared or diluted. only the nation state with the inalienable right to defend itself is the legitimate framework for the use of this supreme force. the npt, while it is a guarantee of stability and the necessary balance, cannot prevent our sovereign nation, france, from having this tool. i would also like to warn this house against the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, which is now being concealed behind the npt. this treaty will not serve the cause of disarmament. no nuclear-armed state will sign it, and, despite the displeasure of the most naive, the atom will never be dis-invented. more than incantations, our group prefers to focus on the three issues that really threaten the security of the european continent: turkey, islamist terrorism and the widespread arsenalisation of space.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr high representative, the european union and its member states, including my country, france, can play an important role in nuclear disarmament. this initiative is sorely lacking today, as nuclear arms control agreements collapse one after another and the risk of deliberate or accidental nuclear detonation increases. the recommendations we are making to the council and the high representative today are therefore of the utmost importance. we can stand back and wait for the deleterious policies of the governments that hold these arsenals to produce disastrous effects, or we can join, for our collective security, in the historic march and momentum of a disarmament initiative. the 1968 non-proliferation treaty already imposed the obligation to negotiate disarmament. to fully support its implementation, this parliament must give its clear support to the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. when it was adopted in 2017, some said that this treaty, which angered those who believe in nuclear power and deterrence, would be difficult to implement. today, its entry into force is imminent. within our union, austria, ireland and malta have already ratified it and new cities are coming to support it. i hear some people talking about realistic disarmament. the only realism i wish to armed myself with is that which chooses to protect citizens and to advance the attainable goal of a free world without the nuclear threat. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the intergroup amendments which i am bringing forward on behalf of the green group in order to ensure that this report lives up to its mission.
madam president, four days ago, samuel paty, a history teacher, was beheaded in france in broad daylight by an islamist terrorist, who was fortunately quickly brought under control by the police, whose dedicated work i commend despite a climate of very high violence against police officers. four days after this barbaric act, we are here to debate a subject which has been exaggerated and agitated, at any rate in france, by the islamist left: police violence. while another civilization organized around political islam has settled on our european continent and threatens france with its separatism, parliament, disconnected from reality, remains in denial and sees greater violence elsewhere. in france, 263 people have been killed in eight years by the violence of political islam, not by police violence: it is this fight against terrorism, not police violence, that we should be debating, and the figures bear witness to this. mrs johansson, fighting terrorism without stopping immigration is a sham. this issue of civilization must be fully and completely occupied in our work today, because, i tell you, tomorrow it will be too late.
mr president, boris johnson once said 'i would rather die in a ditch than ask for a delay to brexit'. today, the negotiations are on a ridge between a ditch and a precipice. when negotiating, you have to be careful about miscalculations. boris johnson has committed three. the internal market bill was supposed to scare europeans and solidify its political majority. by threatening to violate international law, it has united europeans and frightened its majority. when you drive fast on a narrow road, you avoid violating the traffic laws. the british government thought it would put pressure on the europeans by setting a deadline for negotiations on 15 october. october 15th passed and the europeans remained calm. the negotiations can resume at any time. when you want to get to a safe port, you avoid making unnecessary stops. the british government tried to divide and rule by putting the issue of fishing at the centre of the conversation, but no one was fooled. the main issue, the one which concerns all 27 member states, is the risk of unfair competition at the doorstep of the single market. but this issue is not settled, nor is fisheries, nor is the way in which we will settle our differences in the future, even though the confidence we would like to have is not the same as it was because of the uk's withdrawal from the withdrawal agreement. for us, the gap would be a no deal and the precipice a bad deal. because we don't want to see our companies die, if they were faced with unfair competition in health, social or environmental matters. because we don't want to see our fishing industry die, which doesn't have to suffer the consequences of a decision, brexit, that it didn't make. there remains a narrow way, that of an agreement which respects the sovereignty of each but is capable of serving the interests of all. this narrow path must be traveled in a very short time. to avoid the chasm like the precipice, mr johnson, stop the smoke screen, open your eyes to the reality of business needs, respect the withdrawal agreement and get the negotiations out of the impasse in which you have put them. you're driving, mr. johnson, and you're the one who can prevent the accident.
mr president, anything is better than no deal, than leaving the uk without an agreement. we know this and that is why i would like to reiterate our support to our chief negotiator and to you, dear michel, for the outstanding work you are doing. we need to ensure that the interests of european activities prevail and i am surprised that some people here are playing the politics of the worst. i hope they will come tomorrow and explain this to our businesses, to our fishermen in particular, to all those who are threatened by a no-deal exit. the situation also forces me, mr president, to return to another subject, because the european councils follow one another and unfortunately look alike. on 6 october varosha was again occupied by turkey, in defiance of all un conventions in cyprus. a few days later, mr tatar, a self-proclaimed vassal of mr erdoğan, won in this enclave on european soil occupied by turkey since 1974. the turkish ships have again entered the exclusive economic zone of greece. who could seriously believe the de-escalation we were told about? erdoğan takes three steps forward, one step back, but it is to take better afterwards and when he moves forward, it is on europe that he walks. we cannot forget, in particular, the fate of armenia, which is now being hit by the actions of turkey. azerbaijan has caused so many civilian casualties in armenia, nagorno-karabakh: what is europe doing about this? well, she weeps, she pleads, she calls for calm. so many ways to hide his denials, so many ways not to say the word "sanction", the only effective one, the only one that should be pronounced. mr president-in-office, turkey is a crisis every week, innocent people are dying every day, and here it is munich every moment. i think it's time to save our honor, it's time to finally act. we have no right to remain powerless any longer, we have no right to take up the propaganda of turkey, especially when it supports - mr erdoğan said it recently - terrorism in the face of the measures recently announced. i am thinking in particular of the attack on samuel paty, just recently in france, which has led to further statements by the turkish president today.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report promotes the principle of a european minimum wage, which we will never accept. this is a very dangerous idea, and it would inevitably lead to a levelling down, a degradation of the most advanced countries in terms of social and wage policy, and a decline in the social rights of workers. and since the devil is in the details, i would add that i see in the vocabulary used, 'systemic racism', 'structural discrimination' the pernicious impregnation of an extreme left. the same semantic process is used as a mask by the islamists to dissolve our civilization and insidiously impose theirs. in short, a typical relationship whose secret is known only to the european union: our economic ruin on the one hand and the subjugation of civilization to islam-leftism on the other. you spoke, madam president, of a strong europe; we need a europe that can defend itself.
for the greens/efa group madam president, when i hear our colleague mr ferber, i do not know whether to laugh or cry. he basically tells us, "ok, save the planet, but only if it doesn't ruin our public finances and it doesn't ruin our economies". i'm telling him, mr. ferber, that if the planet becomes uninhabitable for human beings, there will be no more economy, there will be no more public finances, it's as simple as that. and he would have us believe that, of course, the only people who can manage well are the conservatives. we are also convinced that when we are part of an economic and monetary union, we need common rules which should promote the stability and convergence of our economies. one element in this is, of course, the stability of our public finances. but who can say that allowing the pandemic to take hold, allowing the social divide to deepen, allowing the climate crisis to fester, allowing natural resources to be depleted, allowing biodiversity to collapse, will not impact our public finances? i agree with your colleagues from the epp on only one point: reducing inequalities or our ecological footprint is in tension with the blind pursuit of growth at any cost. but to conduct an economic and budgetary policy which ensures the stability and even the economic competitiveness of our societies requires a european semester which takes account of the whole picture, and this is what the commission is obviously proposing. in this respect, the statements made by mr ferber and his colleague enikő győri remind me of those who, after the galileo trial, rejoiced, despite common sense and science, at the triumph of the thesis that the earth is the centre of the universe: pitiful and unworthy of a major european party.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that this crisis, as is obvious to all, has caused many problems, has brought to light many of the weaknesses and fragility of our union mechanisms. think about it, right now in the european union, the money supply is tending to double, but the speed of money circulation is tending to halve. that only means one thing: that while our economy, the real economy, is suffering more and more, the banks are getting richer and richer. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so if we want to get out of this, i would say, catastrophic situation, we need to do a few things, simple but also brave: first of all, the ecb must be freed from the blackmail of private banks, the states must be freed from the blackmail of the markets and we must avoid, abandon the concept of the unsustainability of public debt, abandon the concept of european funds, the esm, sure, the part of the loans of the recovery fund that makes no sense under fiat money, and then zero in, eliminate all the differences in the cost of money under the single currency. if these simple things are not done, unfortunately the fate of our continent is sealed and will inevitably be a third world fate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is fair to say that today's report is a really good piece of social policy. i am aware that there are colleagues in this house who have a completely different view of this, because they think that social affairs and europe have nothing to do with each other and that is why it is best for us as a parliament to keep quiet about it. i don't see it that way for two reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe that it is our task, our paramount duty as a parliament, to look closely at the situation with regard to these regulatory principles and the respect of these fundamental social rights, even in the worst economic crisis in the european union. i think that we have made a very important contribution to this with today's report and we have also built a bridge to what is on the agenda in the coming weeks and months. i am simply saying that the minimum wage, the further development of education, are all issues that we will be dealing with in the coming weeks and months, as well as the question of combating homelessness. i think - and i would like to conclude with this - that anyone who looks at developments in certain parts of our continent can only conclude that people who cannot live by their own labour, child poverty and homelessness are the symbol of every european policy speech, every european policy sunday speech. so i am glad that we have made a good contribution today to put things in the right direction. so i'm asking for your approval.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and, as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to thank joachim schuster for the preparation of this report which deserves the support of parliament. it deserves the support of the house mainly on one issue - and i will focus on only one - this report calls for national fiscal policies to remain expansionary until we find a solid basis for recovery. and, to the extent that uncertainties about the evolution of the pandemic remain present in our societies, we believe that this will be necessary for quite some time. in any case, this should not prevent the debate on tax rules which the report also advocates: a revision of tax rules to allow the stability and growth pact to be adapted to the orderly management of the economy across the union. and so, beyond the discussions on the flexibility of that pact, we need to discuss at the same time what we are going to do with the next generation eu in the medium term, because the report also calls for an automatic stabiliser. can we also discuss the viability of a risk-free asset in europe - and we have seen the success of yesterday's debt issue? and why not also talk about the prudential treatment of the debt of the states? but this great debate to which we are condemned, which we must carry out, cannot prevent us from continuing this expansionary policy in the short and medium term.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur. this report is our response to the social challenges posed by the covid shock and our message is clear: ensure a european recovery that meets the challenges and leaves no one behind. the european semester will be the instrument of recovery, and that is very good, and this report serves as a reminder that social and employment issues must be as much a priority as our economic recovery policies. we need to make sure we're all going in the same direction. a recovery is a transformation that is innovative economically, socially just and ecologically responsible. to do this, three priorities must be met simultaneously. first, the urgency of the recovery. the historic recovery plan, adopted last july, will support workers, especially the most vulnerable, in order to preserve their jobs, wages and working conditions. promoting social inclusion, combating poverty, supporting the most deprived and enhancing the employability of young people must remain our priorities. second, we must stay the course. this shock requires quick responses. but we must not give up on our longer-term goals. our economic and social policies must contribute to the objectives of sustainable development, the implementation of the green deal and the realisation of the european pillar of social rights. third, the acceleration of the implementation of the social agenda. the deep inequalities and the weakness of our european social model have been revealed. we must move forward with our agenda for social convergence and the fight against poverty. you mentioned it, commissioner, as an example, an instrument for a fair minimum wage in each member state is more necessary than ever. we know that the european commission is committed, we expect strong announcements and then you can count on the european parliament to build the europe of social justice.
madam president, commissioner, i, like many others here, have appreciated the torrent of good intentions that permeates this report. i'm afraid i don't appreciate them in all their aspects. first, because we are not going to the world after, we are going to the world with. we will live with the pandemic permanently, which no one thinks will end before summer 2021 and maybe longer. we are going to live with the threat of ecological collapse that we are already seeing coming and perhaps this pandemic was one of the first manifestations of that. the issue is not nature or the planet, the issue is human life on this planet and it's human beings, we're going to have to think about that. secondly, because the collapse we are witnessing today is not about the consequences, let us look at the causes. the causes are uncontrolled crossborder movements, the ideology of free trade, the ideology of openness. we will have to question in our parliamentary work a number of the fundamental factors which have caused the present situation, nameless tragedies. we're probably just getting started. let's not just look at the consequences, let's look at the causes.
in writing. in 1976, françois mitterrand predicted that europe would be socialist or not at all. reading the report on euro 2020 social policies, it is the most crude communitarianism that now seems to guide the european project. the other major parties, voted by an overwhelming majority in committee, send a clear message: social europe has a price! it will be the ideological flattening of the far left. recently, it has become impossible to talk about poverty in european texts without mentioning racism. it is no longer possible to talk about inequality without mentioning gender theories. finally, it is no longer possible to combat wage insecurity without encouraging the multiculturalist model. the best example is the desire to set up a task force to combat stereotypes in the workplace. the european union gives us a glimpse of the world it is making for us. a world where the politically correct will be the police in the office. neither socialist nor communitarian: we want the europe of the nations!
in writing. the report is unacceptable in this form. the rapporteur is not a representative of a euro area member state, which can be traced in the report: it is full of promises that are not limited to euro area member states, which is nonsense, because the report is specifically about the euro area. these promises are also considered unsecured blank cheques, since they are backed by no financial resources, and the price would ultimately be paid by the citizens. we know what led to hungary's economic crisis in 2009: the irresponsible social and economic policies that this report seeks to replicate. i would now like to comment on the most controversial point in the report, namely the question of the minimum wage. the hungarian government's commitment to protecting the interests of workers cannot be questioned. since 2010, the minimum wage level has been rising steadily. however, we are convinced that only member states can set their own minimum wages, taking into account their national policies and economic capabilities. it is very important that minimum wages in each country are set in accordance with national traditions, respecting the autonomy of the social partners at national level and well-functioning collective bargaining models. i cannot support the report for several reasons: i do not accept the demand for progressive taxation because it is inefficient and leads to tax avoidance, and because taxation is a member state competence and i do not agree that the rule of law framework should be examined in the context of the european semester.
in writing. the family is an institution present in all cultures because of the important role it plays; in fact, in the humanization of people, the family plays an irreplaceable role. as the first and fundamental human society, the family is the holder of natural and unique rights and the cradle of social life and all matters pertaining to it. it contributes in an original and profound way to the construction of the world, making possible a truly human life, in particular by safeguarding and transmitting virtues and values. it is thus called upon to be a protagonist of social coexistence, through the active participation of its members in society. it is therefore necessary to relaunch the family as a social institution that mediates between the individual and society, as a socializing, humanizing and educational element that promotes freedom and responsibility. this commitment must cover the different sectors of society, but three of them are particularly important: politics, economics and labour. it is incomprehensible that a report on social and employment policies should ignore this natural institution with a social vocation, the family.
i'm opening the second round of voting today. we voted on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 2.30 p.m. to 3.45 p.m. the voting procedure will be the same as in previous rounds. all votes are by roll call and i declare the second round of voting open. as i said, you have until 3.45 p.m. to cast your vote. the results of this round of voting will be announced again from this same place at 6.15 p.m. the debate will resume this afternoon at 3 p.m. with the statement by the council and the commission on the european union's measures to mitigate the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on society and the economy. until then, i'll adjourn the meeting. i ask you to exercise your right to vote. (the sitting was suspended at 2.32 p.m.)
member of the commission. – madam president, we all know that this crisis in eight months changed our world. we will measure its economic impact for the eu with our autumn forecast in a couple of weeks. the last forecasts released a few hours ago by the imf states that the negative growth for the euro area will be in 2020 of minus 8.3. just to compare, we had a negative growth of minus 4.1 in 2009, so during the financial crisis it was less than half the crisis that we could have according to this forecast in 2020. the social consequences will be deep and leave scars. poverty increase according to the world bank will be, in the world, around 120-140 million and this could put at risk the efforts to eradicate poverty that were done in the last 30 years. and the social consequences will be deep also in our union, well beyond the numbers of increased unemployment rates because we know that, yes we have an increase of unemployment rates, but we have increasing gender gap, we have difficult situations for precarious jobs and for children, less educated, so we have deep consequences all in all. this unprecedented crisis triggered unprecedented reactions and several measures as you know were taken by the union, beginning with the first decision in march of having much more flexible rules, both on the fiscal and on state aid, and then easing the use of remaining cohesion funds and then the decisions of several loans, including the sure package in support of short-work schemes. and then the big decision of next generation eu that the commission proposed at the end of may and the council adopted at the end of july, and is now under discussion with the parliament. and these common tools are on top of national responses. i think we should be very well aware of this and on average these national responses amount to around 4.5% of gdp in the union, and together member states’ reaction and common reaction makes our stimulus packages comparable and in some case even stronger to those of other global players. but uncertainty is still there. it is not decreasing. it is may be growing uncertainty in the last weeks, for sure we will not have a so-called v-shaped recovery. we will have to coexist with the virus for a certain amount of time and we have to be very clear in the effort to avoid a double dip recession, keeping supportive fiscal stance and confirming as we did, as commission, our general escape clause for next year. so now at stake is the implementation and the quality of our decisions. as far as the rrf is concerned, we have to find the right balance between the national ownership, which is fundamental in this initiative – we are not writing memorandum here in brussels for these plans – and the common priorities and the country-specific recommendation. the balance will be key if we want to have a good result with this recovery and resilience facility. our goal in general and in conclusion is to transform our economy in these terrible and difficult crisis, as always happens with crises. should we be able to have a more sustainable, more competitive, more resilient? should we be able to mitigate the social consequences of this crisis, and to strengthen the social pillar of our economy? i think that the commission and this parliament have not an easy task. it is an enormous responsibility but it is also the unique opportunity to contribute to better economies and better societies in europe.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be speaking from marseille. i would like to stress that the union has reacted swiftly to this unprecedented health crisis. from the outset and within the framework of its competence, it has tried to counter the economic and social consequences of covid-19. first, with the adoption of emergency instruments such as sure, in support of parttime work schemes, and then react-eu or the rapid adaptation of aid to the most deprived. the european union then responded by introducing important recovery tools. europe is here! i am in favour of a strong green and social component in the recovery plan, with a significant share being devoted to environmental objectives and the implementation of the principles of the european pillar of social rights. i am convinced that there can be no economic recovery and no way out of the crisis without the introduction of social measures. i repeat that because i am not in a position to accept certain reservations and the systematic reference to the exclusive competence of the member states. the social is horizontal; the social is transversal. i would like to emphasize four points. first, part of the resources available through react-eu must be directed towards combating the rise of the invisible, extreme poverty and precariousness, through the fead and the esf+. secondly, we need, of course, an ambitious multiannual budget, with an esf+ that is up to the task and new own resources. thirdly, investments in digital and green transitions must include strong training and retraining for workers, especially young people, with all the instruments we have: the just transition fund, the youth guarantee, the new skills strategy. fourthly, the crisis has urgently highlighted certain shortcomings in european policy. i am thinking of the europe of health, which must of course be strengthened, but also of the fact that two new directives must be implemented in the construction of a social europe: one to introduce fair minimum wages in each country of the european union, the other to guarantee better working conditions and strengthened social rights for workers on the platforms.
madam president, i am going to discuss with you today the situation in the five french overseas departments. for seven years of health, social and economic crisis, i have been fighting for a great economic recovery plan for the overseas. the survival of our overseas territories is at stake. as a guadeloupean, i tell you: our isolation and remoteness are even more punishing us in this covid-19 crisis. tourism, agriculture, fisheries and the craft sector are economic pillars that are under threat and which, under article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, must receive aid in normal times, to which the european globalisation adjustment fund is added in this period of crisis. we must not forget that our hospital system lacks resources, that the posei budget is threatened with a decline of 3.9%, that administrative simplification is still not effective. all of these things need to be addressed, and now! ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that all aid to the overseas countries was kept close to the euro. it is even more necessary than usual to support our five overseas departments, guadeloupe, martinique, réunion, guyana and mayotte, during this crisis, in order to revive their economies and avoid the bankruptcy of many businesses.
in writing. the covid-19 epidemic is growing worldwide. in recent days, there has been a record daily increase in cases worldwide. poland, the czech republic, slovakia and belgium are just some of the eu countries that have seen the most rapid increase in cases since the outbreak began. as the epidemiological situation in europe deteriorates, the social and economic crisis is deepening. the increasing number of cases means that the restrictions will be tightened again, which will exacerbate the economic problems. thousands of european companies, in a wide variety of sectors, are on the brink of collapse. cost-cutting, mass redundancies and restructuring are a reality today, and without effective action the economic situation will deteriorate. while we are aware of the economic aspects of the crisis, we must not forget its social dimension. more and more citizens are fighting the virus or watching it fight among their loved ones. health services are at the edge of their seats, as demonstrated by belgium, which has already stopped testing for covid-19 in asymptomatic people despite close contact with those who have it. at this time, we should especially care for citizens who are most at risk of severe covid-19 - the elderly and the sick. we already know that the effects of the crisis will be felt for years to come. identifying needs and adapting measures to meet them is essential for the economy to survive.
ladies and gentlemen, a few announcements. i would like to inform you that i have decided to impose a sanction on mr vilibor sinčić, consisting in the loss of his right to a residence allowance for a period of two days, the temporary suspension from 22 october for a period of seven consecutive days from the meetings of parliament or any of its bodies, committees or delegations and from participation in all or part of the activities of parliament and the prohibition on representing parliament in an interparliamentary delegation, an interparliamentary conference or any interinstitutional venue for a period of one month, for having displayed a banner and undressed, and for having remained inappropriately during the sitting of 16 september last. the decision has been notified to the person concerned today and, in accordance with rule 177, mr sinčić has two weeks from the notification of the sanction to lodge an appeal against the decision with the bureau. furthermore, i would like to inform you that i have decided to impose a sanction on mr ioannis lagos, consisting in the loss of his right to a residence allowance for a period of seven days, as well as his temporary suspension from 22 october last for a period of four consecutive days from the meetings of parliament or any of its bodies, committees or delegations and from participation in all or part of the activities of parliament for disturbing, by using abusive language, the sitting of 17 september 2020. the decision was notified to the person concerned today and, in accordance with rule 177, mr lagos has two weeks to lodge an internal appeal against the decision with the bureau.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking this parliament for its valuable work and for its continuous support to address what has become one of the main threats to our planet – global deforestation. let me congratulate you, ms burkhardt, and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on your important report, which calls for an eu legal framework to halt and reverse eu—driven global deforestation. it is good to see that we agree on the importance of this subject, and that we share a sense of urgency. our eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 stresses the importance of increasing the quantity, quality and resilience of our own forests. but while the area covered by forests in europe increases, forest degradation and international deforestation threaten the well—being of all of us. deforestation is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, causing climate change. it is pushing animals and plants to extinction and affecting the rights of indigenous peoples in some parts of the world. in short, it is akin to choking life on earth. deforestation is also a complex problem, and there is no easy solution. no major economy in the world has yet managed to eliminate products linked to deforestation for its supply chains, and yet this is exactly what we have to do and what we plan to do. eu demand and consumption, our way of life, should not trigger deforestation and forest degradation. in fact, this should go for everyone. we have to break the link. your report and the legislative initiative resolution which this house will adopt tomorrow is an extremely important contribution in this regard. we particularly appreciate that through this report, the european parliament has been truly effective in drawing attention to the issue of deforestation. public awareness and support are crucial if we really want to change things. the report addresses highly relevant issues and contains a number of important messages. it is certainly true that the limited uptake of voluntary schemes failed – failed to deliver on the promise of reducing deforestation – and that mandatory action is needed. getting the product scope right and ensuring that it is scientifically based and regularly updated will definitely be a key aspect of any future action. it is also true that we should not forget that high carbon stock and biodiversity rich ecosystems, other than forest, marine and coastal ecosystems, wetlands, peatlands or savannas are equally threatened. let me be clear, we are determined to act and to use the eu’s economic weight to help protect, restore and sustainably manage the world’s forests. as you probably know, we have already started preparatory work on a new legislative proposal to curtail the placing of products associated with deforestation or forest degradation on the european market. this objective is enshrined in the european green deal, the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 and farm—to—fork strategy. we are currently working on an impact assessment and we have launched a public consultation that will run until 10 december. the adoption of this proposal is currently scheduled for next year, 2021, the second quarter. in the current impact assessment process and in line with our better regulation principle, we are of course assessing a variety of policy options. these include due diligence and bilateral agreements with third countries, but not only. we are, for example, studying the system put in place by the eu regulation to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, as well as different forms of verification systems, among other options. in parallel, we are also conducting a fitness check of the rules in place to fight illegal logging, namely the eu timber regulation and the flegt regulation, to take action into account of our past experience and better understand what has worked and what has failed. we expect to finalise these fitness checks in early 2021, so that their results can duly inform the decision—making process. we have been implementing the due diligence system of the eu timber regulation for more than seven years and have been negotiating and implementing flexible, voluntary partnership agreements for much longer. let me be clear, we will certainly not shy away from proposing strong mandatory action to address the problem, but we need to make sure that whatever we propose works, that it has the necessary impact on the ground and that it is compatible with our wto obligations. let me conclude by saying that the report of the european parliament constitutes an important contribution and goes beyond the legislative work of the commission, meaning it should also translate in the work of other sectors, including working in partnership with producing countries to reduce pressures on forest and help them implement sustainable forest—based value chains – ones adopted by this house. we will carefully analyse your recommendations and will duly consider these when developing our proposal. honourable members, between 1990 and 2020, about 10% of the world’s forest cover was destroyed – an area bigger than india. if deforestation were a nation, it would be the third biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after china and the us. we cannot underestimate this challenge, and we have to act. this is also why our efforts to curtail the risk of deforestation and forest degradation feature prominently in the commission’s work programme for the next year, which the college adopted only two days ago. it is our responsibility to do our part to change this course and it is in our hands to do it effectively, already in upcoming months. let us not waste this unique opportunity. let us do this together.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not mrs burkhardt, i must congratulate you very warmly on this report, which is a real step forward. i also thank the commissioner for the fact that we can now take action on this, because the dramatic nature of deforestation has increased so much in recent years that we really have to do something. i also believe that europe is involved in more than 10% of deforestation. if i am to imagine that we have about 10% of our forage area in south america again - that is to say, soybean imports have become the basis for the massive investments in mass livestock farming - we must realise that we also bear a large part of the responsibility in these countries. we can produce protein in europe, and we must do so. palm oil is another big issue. we have decided to stop using palm oil as a renewable energy source. it's supposed to be earlier. but let me be clear again: free trade agreements, commissioner, like the mercosur agreement, we must deal with them differently from what is now on the table. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the forests of the carpathians, and i would like to remind you that the carpathians in europe also need a lot of protection, and we do not have that at the moment.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. this week our parliament is voting on the draft reform of the common agricultural policy, but how can we vote for this inadequate reform, even though the amazon is suffering from deforestation and the increase in forest fires? let's face it: our industrial farming model, heavily dependent on imported soybeans, is largely responsible. it is responsible for deforestation, destruction of unique ecosystems and habitats for many animal species, and land grabbing at the expense of the rights of farmers and indigenous peoples. the problem has been identified for years and yet nothing has been done to solve it. the report we are about to vote on calls on the european union to develop a legal framework to combat deforestation and forest degradation. the report focuses in particular on the duty of vigilance and the responsibility of enterprises. i am the rapporteur on the committee on development on corporate environmental responsibility. those who, directly or through subcontractors, contribute to deforestation must be able to be judged. it is important that people in developing countries have effective access to justice. the time of impunity must end. those responsible for ecocide must be brought to justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, there is no doubt that global deforestation is an enormous problem, and we need to take good care of the world’s forests. they are the lungs of this earth. there is an ongoing and very worrisome trend, with the loss of global tree cover and the destruction of forest in many third countries outside of europe. this has dramatic consequences for our climate and our ecosystems. it also has grave social impacts. almost one in every four people in the world today depend on forests for their daily livelihood and income. indigenous people around the world – for example, in the amazon – are heavily dependent on forests, and deforestation threatens their livelihood. there are also completely flagrant and abhorrent human rights violations due to conflicts linked to the situation. in the amazon region alone, we have seen how more than 300 people have been killed in resource and land use conflicts in the last decade. this is really awful and can never be accepted. although this deforestation takes place in other parts of the world, we see here in europe that we have a responsibility to act. our own consumption is a big part of the problem; it contributes to at least 10 % of global deforestation. therefore, we must look at ways to better ensure that we halt global deforestation, including through our own consumption. as a consumer, i want to know that my consumption doesn’t have negative effects on the environment or on people who live in other countries. commodities used in eu should not lead to deforestation and human rights abuses in the countries where the products have been produced. all of us agree on that, and now it’s time to act.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, i think we all want to know, when we have a cup of coffee, when your children or mine eat a chicken scallop, whether or not we are contributing to the deforestation of the amazon. but unfortunately, as we do not know today, as there are no european rules against products from deforestation in the amazon or in africa, the congo basin or in asia, indonesia, it is very likely that we are contributing to this without our knowledge. and that's where we need to change. we need to change the rule in a fairly simple way and ultimately very consensually. the bill we are voting on today has the support of the far left, the epp, the right, the centre, the greens and the left. this means that we can find a compromise when we work intelligently on these issues, because it is in our general interest and it is our common good: both as consumers and also as citizens of the world, our general interest is to protect a common good like the amazon. i heard that you are going to propose, as early as the first quarter of 2021, a bill on this subject: we will support it if it is ambitious and consistent with what we are proposing today and, again, is supported by a very large political majority. it's quite simple, there are european companies today that have set the example, that are able to say 'i have stopped deforestation in my supply chain'. so we just have to take what they have tried and succeeded in, take their good practice and say: 'from now on, if you want to sell chocolate, soybeans, palm oil, hevea, etc. on the european market, then you have to respect these good practices, which are already being implemented by our best european companies'. the way is quite simple, namely more transparency. i wanted to say a word about traders. when you are preparing your text, commissioner, you must remember that traders are an opaque black box which must be opened if we are to combat deforestation effectively. we are counting on you, and parliament will support you in this endeavour.
for the greens/efa group i would like to ask you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, to appreciate the importance of the text we are debating today, for which i congratulate its rapporteur, mrs delara burkhardt. we can defend forests for their beauty, we can defend them for the mysterious link they weave between us and the origins of the world, we can defend forests because we defend the rights of nature. but let us also be convinced that we must defend the forests because by protecting them we are protecting our very existence, because the forests are the lungs of humanity and the planet. between 1970 and 2012, 58 percent of vertebrate species disappeared due to deforestation. so can we imagine preserving biodiversity without preserving the world's forests? the answer is no. can we hope to meet our climate commitments without preserving the world's forests? again, the answer is no, because forests cover 31% of the earth's surface and are the second largest carbon sink after the oceans. to continue to destroy them is to condemn ourselves to losing the climate battle. i would add that deforestation exacerbates the threats faced by indigenous communities, who are attacked, sometimes even murdered, because they claim to defend their land and their rights. deforestation is another name for the violation of the rights of peoples. so anyone who claims to defend human rights must stop it. let's be clear: our forests continue to be destroyed for the benefit of commerce; the short-term profits still outweigh the long-term profits. industrial agriculture alone is responsible for 40% of global deforestation, the european union for 10%. so yes, europe must lead the way. yes, we need a duty of vigilance on the part of companies and their financiers. we must recognise the universal right to a healthy environment for all, guarantee access to justice, protect environmental defenders. we must also put an end to the ongoing ecocide in the amazon, by bringing this crime to international recognition and finally guaranteeing a legal status for the world's natural commons. so let us be ambitious, let us adopt this text protecting forests: we are talking about our future, we are talking about europe, we are talking about our responsibility in the face of the destruction of the planet.
mr president, europe, i would remind you, is the main continent responsible for imported deforestation. thirteen million hectares of forest are cleared worldwide each year, and the vast majority of this deforestation takes place in tropical forests. once again, the european union is the main link in the chain of deforestation. the main sources of energy are three commodities: soybeans, beef and palm oil. there is a direct link between deforestation and climate change, as 12 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions are the result of deforestation. it degrades major endemic ecosystems, especially in tropical areas, so important for temperature regulation. i could have voted in favour of this report if it had not contained two major errors. firstly, once again, we are dealing with a report which will allow ngos to condemn sovereign states through the famous arbitration tribunals. it is an unspeakable attack on the sovereignty of our nations. secondly, the european union is only giving itself a good conscience. there is no point in creating products with the label of zero deforestation when the central problem is still free trade agreements. again, your europeanist vision is harmful both to producers and to the environment, so you are inevitably a link in the chain of deforestation. let us get out of the too many free trade agreements that the european union has ratified, let us defend another model geared towards localism, let us stop this excessive liberalisation and let us return to a model that is truly ethical.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the staff in strasbourg and brussels who were able to organise a remote plenary session in perfect conditions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by paying tribute to samuel paty, who was beheaded for wanting to teach freedom of expression in france in 2020. the best tribute we can pay to him and to all those who died from islamist terrorism is to fight and eradicate islamism. today's debate is on gender equality in the european union's foreign policy. with the european union so keen to always set an example, it is legitimate to ask what example europe and france are really setting for the rest of the world. is it with axelle, who was run over and dragged half a mile by a young man while she was walking her dog? is it with mya, getting beat up by three kids? with c., 15, raped, strangled and burned by a repeat rapist while she was picking up a package? or mila, who was harassed and threatened with death? these barbaric practices are growing at the same rate as the arrival of migrants in lesbos or lampedusa. forced or early marriages, female circumcision and certificates of virginity for women are also common. some shady practices that have come up recently with these waves of migration that don't care about your 40-page equality reports to get board seats. instead of letting the european union get involved in foreign policy issues, i think europe must first put its own house in order and protect all its daughters before it wants to impose its egalitarian ideology on the other side of the world.
in writing. the passports of complacency in the member states of the european union allow dubious characters to spread like a metastasis in the french or german social and economic fabric. this practice must be stopped! a recent journalistic investigation into the sale of cypriot passports, involving high-ranking politicians, has sparked an unprecedented scandal in nicosia. since 2007, cyprus has offered wealthy non-european investors the opportunity to obtain the famous 'golden passport'. these award procedures lack rigor and transparency and are difficult to block from dubious investors. the system thus becomes a doorway for tax evasion, money laundering, corruption and mafias of all kinds. in cyprus, the european sesame ticket costs €2.5 million - the investment that non-eu nationals must make to obtain citizenship of that country. cyprus is not the only european country to sell its passport, malta is following suit. the expert group set up by the european commission in january 2019 to study this phenomenon never met in 2020.
mr president, the european commission has made the energy transition a major focus of its policy, notably by setting the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050. if the goal is really to decarbonize energy then where has nuclear power gone in your report? it is nowhere recognised as a key technology to promote, even though it is the cheapest and most decarbonised energy source available today, making france the second cleanest energy country in the world, according to a report by yale university. you swear by the latest ipcc report, but you refuse to read it in its entirety. all the scenarios, i mean all the scenarios, which should limit the temperature rise by 2100 include a massive increase in nuclear power. while hydrogen is probably the most reasonable ambition, wind power, which is destroying our landscapes, like electric batteries, has shown its limits. it is therefore time for the european commission to return to reason and science, to stop succumbing to the pressure of the green ayatollahs and their anti-nuclear hysteria, and to put an end to our industrial and energy independence.
the outdated provisions of the energy charter treaty need to be modernised in line with the latest objectives of the european commission to limit the impact of climate change. in order to effectively contribute to the climate objectives set out in the paris agreement on sustainable development goals and the ambitions of the european union, the ect should encourage investment in sustainable low-carbon energy and, equally, support measures to promote a just transition. however, in light of the urgent need for climate action, what ect really needs is a fundamental shift. today's debate, i believe, may have a positive impact not only on thinking about the changes necessary to achieve climate goals but also on other provisions of the ect that also have a significant negative impact on the international legal order. we need to stop investing in fossil fuels and remove the unfavorable provisions that actually give investors the ability to sue the state before private arbitration courts. we heard about that earlier today. the biggest challenge that member states may face is the investor protection clause. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. this clause is often abused. according to the ect secretariat, a total of 134 lawsuits have been filed by energy companies against the state, and almost half of the proceedings are still ongoing. in conclusion, the european union is founded on the rule of law and respect for positive legal rules. the interests of our citizens must be a priority.
i cannot continue the debate at the moment because i am interrupting for the announcement by the president of the winner of the sakharov prize. we shall resume the debate immediately after this announcement.
ladies and gentlemen, it is my great honour to inform you that the conference of presidents has decided to award the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to the representatives of the belarusian opposition: the coordination council, the initiative of the courageous women sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, svetlana alexievich, maryia kalesnikava, volha kavalkova, veranika tsapkala, and the personalities of politics and civil society siarhei tsikhanouski, ales bialiatski, siarhei dyleuski, stsiapan putsila and mikola statkevich, who are also members of the coordination council. the massive street protests in belarus that have rocked the world have been going on for 11 weeks now. as our admiration for the belarusian people grows, so does our dismay at lukashenko's violent reprisals and his acts of torture and denial of the truth. let me repeat what our institutions and parliament have already said in one voice: the government and the president have lost the election and it's time to listen to the voice of your people. but, more importantly, i wish to congratulate the representatives of the belarusian opposition on their courage, resilience and determination. they are the daily embodiment of the defence of the freedom of thought and expression that the sakharov prize rewards. they have proven and continue to prove themselves strong in the face of a much more powerful adversary. but what sustains them is something that violence can never defeat: i told you the truth. so here's my, our message to you, dear prize winners: keep your strength and don't give up your battles, we'll be by your side. we're with you. i hope to be able to welcome you to parliament soon to present you with the prize we have awarded you today. i would also like to say a word about the recent murder of one of this year's finalists, mr arnold joaquín morazán erazo, leader of the environmental group guapinol, the group that is opposing an iron oxide mine in honduras. a significant battle of great importance. it is imperative that a credible and independent investigation be launched immediately and that those responsible be held to account. in honduras, in belarus, in iraq and anywhere else in the world, no one should be persecuted for expressing their opinions. and that is the message we want to send out today from the european parliament.
we now continue our debate on the commission's statement on the adaptation of the energy charter treaty to the european green deal (2020/2827 (rsp)) after president sassoli's statement on the sakharov prize winners.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has made the environment its flagship project through the green deal for europe. this parliament declared a climate emergency last year. we voted a few weeks ago on the climate bill. but all this is useless if the energy charter continues because you know as well as i do that whenever a state wants to introduce ambitious environmental legislation, it will be attacked or threatened with being attacked in private arbitration courts, with the consequences that we know, either the law is scrapped, or it is lightened, or the states have to pay out millions or even billions of euros, public money, the money of the citizens, money that we need to implement the ecological transition. money we need more than ever in a time of crisis. this archaic, climate-killing treaty acts as a real life insurance for the fossil fuel industry, life insurance against our lives. since the negotiations are currently under way, we members of parliament would like to know what the commission's red lines are. and if this treaty is not renegotiable, which is our real fear, we would like to know whether the commission is determined to organise a concerted exit from this treaty, so that we can put in place the ecological transition.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear to all of us that our trade and investment policies must contribute to respecting the paris agreement and implementing our commitments under the green deal. one consequence is that the current energy charter treaty is not in line with our objectives to combat climate change. so two priorities in the negotiations that you've already mentioned. first, to be committed to excluding fossil fuels from the scope of the treaty. how many companies in this sector have attacked our states and won! and these cases are likely to increase with our goal of climate neutrality. secondly, to be committed to the abandonment in this treaty of the old mechanism for settling disputes between investors and states. the right of states to withdraw must be protected. but the reality is that, unfortunately, few or none of the current signatories to the treaty share this desire for adaptation. so there is only one conclusion, madam commissioner, and that is that we must prepare ourselves for all situations, including the organized withdrawal from these negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy charter treaty was signed in 1994. it protects investments in fossil fuels, by allowing multinationals to attack states in arbitration tribunals. vattenfall, for example, is suing germany for tightening up its environmental regulations. uniper is the one that is attacking the netherlands for its decision to close its coal-fired plants. it is the canadian company vermilion that is threatening france with legal action if it commits to ending fossil fuel extraction by 2040. the treaty now protects 30 gigatons of cumulative emissions, the equivalent of the eu's carbon budget by 2050 to meet the paris agreement trajectory. our parliament has set the target of carbon neutrality by 2050. will we be dragged into court? enough is enough, the financial interests of the multinational corporations must not take precedence over the sovereignty of the people. so, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to tear up the energy charter treaty.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that all the pro-europeans woke up this morning with a smile on their faces. let us take the time to reflect on what was achieved yesterday by the members of the european parliament in this house: €16 billion. sixteen billion of them! this is an unprecedented victory. in 2006, four billion euro. in 2013, zero billion euros in fresh money. we have tripled the budget for health, where member states saw it as a national competence that should remain national, even in times of pandemics. we've corrected that nonsense. what happened yesterday is proof that europe is not run by states alone, or for states alone. in playing our full part, we members of the european parliament have shown that we are the guardians of community europe, the guardians of the interests of europeans, who are asking for more money for student mobility, who are asking for more money for research, who are asking for more money for our borders, who are asking for more money for our cultural sector. we have done it, colleagues! they laughed at us, told us to go back to the ground, that we would only have towels... we did it. what about own resources? because 16 billion is nothing in terms of volume compared to what we will get from these new own resources. we're finally going to have a carbon adjustment mechanism at the border, we're finally going to have a tax on the digital giants, we're finally going to have a tax on financial transactions. and this financial transaction tax, like the others, if we got it, it's because we negotiated, not by making intentional lawsuits against those on the other side and around the table. we have not created a genuine resource of our own since the customs duties. that was 50 years ago. let us put it this way: in april we called in this house for the creation of a massive recovery plan. today is november 11th, and we have a €750 billion plan, but we also now have the assurance that this plan will not be paid for by european citizens, but will be paid for by the digital giants, by the financial institutions that speculate, or by the non-european companies that pollute. my friends, what a victory! what a victory! even the greens have told us that they will vote in favour of this budget. when was the last time that happened, ladies and gentlemen? how long have you been here? i would like to congratulate the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and i would like to congratulate the european parliament! we are the only ones capable of reforming europe in the face of states entangled in their chronic unanimity. let's keep up the fight! let us now launch the conference on the future of europe. let's keep it together, and tomorrow the union will finally be a power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate. let me take a rather contrasting view of the package that is now being offered to us. we have a saying in france which we use often and which i will use again here: this agreement deserves neither excess of honour nor indignity. no indignity, because this is the first time we have a recovery plan that allows us to have european solidarity and this is something that did not exist. no indignity, because we also gained from the setting aside, to some extent, of the semester, which forced us to adopt austerity policies. nor is it undignified, because there are first traces of own resources, but i will come back to that. it is not an indignity, because it is true that for the first time in a very long time we have a slightly - very slightly - but still increased multiannual budget of €16 billion. but not too much honor either, because there have been missed opportunities in these negotiations. i want to return to the question of own resources. these own resources are fundamental for two reasons. firstly, they guarantee us european sovereignty, where we are not constantly blackmailed by the council to decide our fate in budgetary matters. they are also very important because they are what makes a fair taxation possible. and the council's rejection of the financial transaction tax is a very serious political mistake. during this period of crisis, the richest continued to get richer through financialisation of the economy and speculation. this financial transaction tax would have been a means of bringing fiscal justice to the level of the union, and the council refused to do so. a final word to say that i also regret that the commission has not been sufficiently on parliament's side to take our positions. it is his responsibility to do so.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ecological crisis does not stop with the health crisis. on the contrary, all crises are interrelated. they stem from an unfair and destructive economic and development model. in the face of the pandemic, mobilizing funds for recovery was essential. but urgency must not condemn the future. our investments are shaping the future, and we need to reorient our economy so that it ensures both social justice and the protection of our planet. if we want to save the climate and achieve carbon neutrality, as we have promised, not a single public euro should be allocated to fossil fuels. it is simple, it is clear, and it is the position we are taking. but being an environmentalist parliamentarian often means having to deal with political majorities who are prisoners of the short term. so once again, we have fought the battle to clearly exclude fossil fuels from this recovery facility and we have only gotten gas not listed as a transition energy. it's time to go further and make the radical decisions that are needed, or the climate crisis will spawn words far worse than the ones we face today.
member of the commission. – mr president, believe me, today i really appreciated and enjoyed this debate, because it has shown a very broad not only understanding, but in particular support and commitment concerning the next mff and everything that is related to it. this is extremely helpful in backing our work because we are not yet there. we have found a political agreement which was important, but now it’s about taking the necessary approvals and then of course it’s about implementation, and this was highlighted by several speakers. i think we have really to focus on implementation throughout the seven years, but in particular at the beginning of those seven years, because this is also related to the response to the covid crisis, where people need our support, where businesses need our support in order to survive and to protect jobs, for instance, which is equally important and therefore i am very grateful for this strong support. by the way, we have also protected and safeguarded the political priorities which we have discussed for many months, if not to say years here in this house, the green deal but also digitalisation, and to work together here. i am confident that we can also achieve in due time all the necessary approvals in order really to start working, and to implement what we have discussed, what we have decided and what we have envisaged. i once again thank you and i ask for your further support. i have no doubts. i didn’t have any doubts, and after this discussion have even fewer doubts that we will get the right backing from this parliament for these very ambitious goals for the next couple of years. plus, as was said by almost every speaker, it’s about europe, our citizens and it’s about helping people to overcome this crisis, and to be even stronger afterwards, and this should be our goal. but we should, by the way, not forget our responsibility in the world. this was also highlighted by several speakers. europe can only be successful, finally, if we are part of a more peaceful, a more cooperative world, and in that respect i think also the recent developments in the united states should give some hope. but on the other hand, we should not overestimate everything, but in general, i think this was and is – it is only wednesday – a good week for europe, the world and in particular the citizens.
the debate is closed, which is so important for the future of the european project and a good example of interinstitutional dialogue. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the current multiannual financial framework, also known as the eu's long-term budget, expires in december. the proposals for the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework include, inter alia, the reform of the own resources system to ensure its financing. the multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan can mitigate the impact of the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic. the new recovery package will provide an investment boost to transform our economies and strengthen their resilience by combining strategic investments supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. it should also increase employment opportunities to mitigate the impact of the crisis on workers and consumers. the european parliament has voted to increase the budget for innovative and future-oriented programmes such as horizon, investeu, erasmus and eu4health. the budgetary flexibility has also been increased to allow the eu to respond more easily to unforeseen needs, and the role of the european parliament in the area of new sources of revenue for the eu budget has been strengthened. unfortunately, the satisfaction with the success of these negotiations is overshadowed by the adoption of the so-called conditionality of budgetary expenditure solutions proposing non-treaty provisions on the linking of funds to the rule of law. these solutions go beyond protecting the eu's financial interests and become an instrument of political, financial and ideological pressure on member state governments that do not follow the mainstream of eu policy. in a situation of deep recession of all eu economies caused by the covid-19 pandemic, we should not put the political interests of some countries above the economic and social interests of all eu citizens.
in writing. after years of demands from the european parliament, we will finally establish a mechanism in the eu to protect european money. we no longer want to provide financial support, directly or indirectly, to governments of countries that systematically and deliberately undermine and politically subordinate social systems, undermine the rule of law and democracy. we will no longer allocate european taxpayers' money to those member states that do so. the eu-slovenia interinstitutional agreement is also of great importance for slovenia and for restoring citizens' trust in the union and its institutions. in fact, in a recent survey, almost 80% of europeans made it very clear that countries that violate common values cannot be eligible for eu funds. the union is so clear that it will not be blackmailed by authoritarian leaders. european values are no longer for sale. but an important part of the agreement is that eu citizens will not be punished for breaching their rulers. the final beneficiaries of funds that depend on eu support - for example students, farmers or ngos - will be eligible for funding directly from the commission, as we have always called for in the european parliament.
in writing. the agreement on the future multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 is undoubtedly a historic moment that will allow us to build a stronger, more people-centred, greener and more competitive europe on global markets. in response to the extraordinary challenges facing europeans now in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic, and in order to continue with its policies and achieve its objectives, the european union has responded with the largest financial package ever adopted, amounting to eur 1.8 trillion. these measures will help to maintain and create jobs, to ensure future growth and to combat climate change. it's also more money for health and education, among other things. there is no doubt that this is particularly important now for all member states, including poland, which can benefit immensely from it. but to do so, they need to be approved by the european parliament and unanimously voted on by the council, and, in the case of the reconstruction fund, ratified by national parliaments. we are therefore faced with historic decisions, on which the future of not only the european union and the individual member states, including poland, which is particularly close to me, but also individual european families depends. i hope that the particular interests of the parties in power in certain member states will not stand in the way of the conclusion of this agreement, which is of the greatest importance for our common future.
in writing. speaking in the debate on the eu's multiannual budget for 2021-2027, on behalf of the polish delegation, i would like to express my satisfaction with the conclusion of the negotiations between the ep, the commission and the german presidency. the agreement increased funding for health, research and youth programmes by €16 billion, increased budgetary flexibility to allow the eu to respond more easily to unforeseen needs, and strengthened the ep's role in the area of new sources of revenue for the eu budget. the success of these negotiations is sadly overshadowed by the departure from the compromise conclusions of the council summit of 21 july this year and the adoption of solutions to the so-called conditionality of budgetary expenditure, which go far beyond the protection of the eu's financial interests. the solution, which was initially agreed on 5 november in the framework of the trilateral talks, is nothing more than the creation of an ideological stick that the commission wants to use in the future to beat right-wing governments that are not liked in brussels, and some of the negotiators made no secret of their intention in public statements. a confrontation with the council threatens to block both the multiannual budget and the recovery plan, which in the context of the deep recession of all eu economies caused by the covid-19 pandemic, shows that the negotiators put the political interests of some eu countries above the economic and social interests of 450 million eu citizens.
in writing. – i welcome the historic agreement reached on mff of eur 1.8 trillion. more, the increases secured by parliament for the key eu programmes in areas including health, research, mainstreaming gender and young people represent a big success of the negotiations held since 2018. the total amount of these top-ups is eur 15 billion, and another eur 1 billion will be put aside if unexpected future crises need to be addressed. the pandemic has given us new responsibilities and duties: the responsibility to make choices and the duty to do so in the interests of our european citizens. if we make a summary, it becomes obvious where we should invest: in the green economy, fighting against adverse effects of climate change, restore biodiversity, health, education, and in digital, democratic and social rights. we have managed to secure financing for the green deal and for a just transition and to stand up for a budget that is now greener, fairer and more socially just. we have to stay united, working hard for the well-being of the european citizens.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. – the results obtained by the european parliament negotiators seem impressive. the increased allocations for very crucial funding programmes such as education and research are highly commendable. also very essential, especially in this current moment, is the tripling of funding dedicated to the incoming eu4health funding programme. however, the main problematic issue here naturally remains the one of revenues. a major added source of revenue from this week’s agreement is that eu fines will automatically become a source of eu budget revenue. eu colleagues working on competition are suspicious of this new solution, as they fear it to become a new argument by defendants undergoing antitrust procedures. more controversial for some member states is perhaps the agreement on the introduction of new own resources, over what has already been agreed in council few months ago. for countries like mine, the introduction of own resources through a financial transaction tax and a common corporate tax base will not be taken lightly. and here is a stumbling block that one cannot ignore. such new own resources need approval by member states in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. this means that in most cases, each single new proposal needs to be approved by national parliaments: that will not be so plain sailing.
in writing. the european parliament's resolve in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework is very welcome and i would like to sincerely thank the parliamentary negotiators. the agreement reached in the negotiations will bring significant additional funding to the very areas where development is critical for europe's future. increasing research and development and educational opportunities through eu funding is an investment in the future. the competitiveness of europe, which we all have the duty and responsibility to improve every day, depends very much on the resources devoted to its enhancement. this is a matter of survival, both at national and european level, not to mention the private sector. today and in the near future, we need to invest in our health care capacity. the european union must be a better partner for its citizens in healthcare. the current crisis is a testament to that. however, alongside the positive developments, there are areas where the european union has a habit of hiding its head in the sand and ignoring reality. i am talking in particular of the defence sector, which has seen its funding cut substantially compared with the original plans. all this was done in a context that experts do not hesitate to describe with caution. the security environment surrounding europe is certainly not one that today allows sober-minded decision-makers to further reduce already limited amounts. the european union has shown its greater ambition to play a role in defence matters. but ambition must always be backed by real money, otherwise it is not credible.
in writing. without a green eu budget, there is no green deal for a sustainable europe! finally, it is thanks to the european parliament that this insight was confirmed and that we were able to reach agreement with the council on the eu's multiannual financial framework after difficult negotiations. the european parliament's demands for investment in the future have gone much further, but have been held back by the member states' cutting backs. we have nevertheless made some important budgetary progress. the rule of law mechanism creates an important tool to consistently defend fundamental rights and democracy against autocratic backlashes. the green group has negotiated award criteria for climate protection and biodiversity in the multiannual financial framework. for the first time, the mff also provides funding to actively combat species extinction. the legally binding roadmap for the establishment and expansion of the eu's own resources system is another milestone. with a plastic tax next year, a digital tax and carbon tax mechanisms in 2023, and a financial transaction tax and common corporate taxes in 2026, the roadmap is less ambitious than we greens have been calling for, but it finally puts a longstanding green demand on track.
in writing. i am pleased that parliament and the council have reached agreement on the financial framework and the recovery package. the package is an improvement on the july european council's proposal. in july, i criticised the fact that member states were cutting major eu programmes, taking a dim view of the rule of law mechanism and leaving debt payments unpaid. now, in further negotiations, these points have been amended. the most significant improvement was the linking of funding to the rule of law. the record of conditionality was given a fine-line. in addition to cases of misuse of eu funds, the mechanism also applies more broadly in cases where the union's fundamental values are at stake. the risk of a breach of the rule of law is enough to enforce the law. this is a major step forward in safeguarding the eu's fundamental values. if this had not been done, the next opportunity to close the money supply to countries that are lacking in basic values would have been a long wait. a further significant improvement was the €16 billion in additional funding for flagship eu value-added programmes such as eu4health, erasmus+, creative europe and horizon europe. however, the outcome of the horizon programme is still not satisfactory. the funding is still short of 85 billion, which is a slight increase from last season. the transition to a climate-resilient and digital economy would require significantly higher research investments. the low level of european r & d investment is a major disappointment which the member states must now correct, also through the rescue package. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the recovery of the baltic sea is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission's proposal is a good one. i hope that parliament and the council will then adopt the package swiftly. this will avoid jeopardising the continuation of eu programmes and allow recovery funding to be directed towards sustainable growth.
in writing. i support any action to protect the union budget. but they have to be legal. they shall not be designed to circumvent existing treaty mechanisms. the european council invited the commission to prepare a budgetary protection regime against irregularities. however, there was no breach of the rule of law, as this procedure is covered by article 7 of the treaty on european union. the budgetary link mechanism with rule of law breaches would duplicate the mechanism under article 7, further over-empowering the commission while marginalising the role of the member states in the rule of law assessment process. i support the part of the proposed regulation which relates to budget implementation and effective action to combat fraud. but i cannot support proposals which discriminate against certain member states. i am absolutely opposed to the mechanism being given a preventive character, by allowing it to be activated not only in the event of a direct breach of the budget but also when the risk itself is present. the european council in its july conclusions stressed the need to defend the union's budget in accordance with the principles and values of the treaty. she stressed the importance of the rule of law. the obligation to comply with it lies not only with the member states but also with the institutions. secondary legislation cannot replace the treaty.
in writing. the enthusiasm and optimism displayed by the majority forces for the alleged compromise reached between the council and parliament on the mff and the recovery fund are, as is often the case, excessive and, unfortunately for european citizens, unfounded. a draft agreement was reached after weeks of negotiations, influenced by the utopian demands of the majority of meps. in the midst of a very serious crisis such as the present one, brussels is still wasting precious time by planning the introduction of new own resources, that is, additional european taxes which would increase the fiscal pressure on a country like italy, which is already a net contributor. on the recovery fund, the eu's desire to impose a rule of law mechanism is translated into a ploy designed to punish certain 'non-aligned' countries, in order to set a kind of parameter for the allocation or denial of the resources provided for in the package. in the face of the eu's bureaucratic sluggishness, which is putting the fate of an entire continent at risk, we will continue to press even more strongly for immediate action.
in writing. the agreements reached between the european parliament and the council on the recovery plan for europe, the multiannual financial framework 2021/2027 (mff), own resources and the cross-compliance mechanism on the application of the rule of law are a historic moment and a robust step forward, both in the european response to citizens' needs and in the affirmation of a new paradigm of interinstitutional cooperation and solidarity. the european parliament has achieved substantial negotiating gains which enhance its role as the direct representative of the peoples of europe. a total of €16 billion was gained from strengthening the mff, including substantial reinforcement of the programmes for research and development, mobility (erasmus), health, investment, innovation and humanitarian aid. the guarantee of a link between the mff and the recovery programme for europe, under the supervision of parliament, is essential. 40% of this plan will have to be implemented in the european green deal and 20% in the digital agenda. finally, i would like to highlight the steps taken in the area of own resources. the timetables are less ambitious than they should be, but they allow for the solidarity coverage of the recovery fund.
the next item is the debate on the results of the us presidential elections. i would like to inform you that a round of speakers from the political groups is planned for this debate and that there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure or 'blue card' questions in all debates in this part-session. the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states are expected to provide assistance.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, dear members, dear colleagues of the european parliament, thank you for organising a very quick debate, an exchange of views on the results of the us elections. i’m glad to see that you give this event all the importance it has and have a look at the future of our partnership with the us – it’s an important thing, a priority of our future engagement and our future foreign policy. unfortunately, we will not have a lot of time today to discuss this, but i’m sure that we will have other opportunities to come back to this issue soon and to examine our transatlantic relationship in depth. indeed, last week the whole world was following, with a lot of attention and suspense, the elections in the us. and i want to congratulate the american people for the largest participation in us electoral history, which shows clearly that the american citizens were very much aware of the importance of these elections. americans demonstrated the importance and capacity of democratic institutions and civic engagement and i want to congratulate warmly president-elect joe biden and vice president-elect kamala harris for their historic victory. we are now looking at the opportunities to advance our strategic partnership. this morning at the college, the commission took a first look at this opportunity and how we are going to manage this new era of our relationship with the us. all the commissioners participated in this debate and i am happy that the parliament also wants to advance a first approach to this issue. i don’t have to explain that we have had a very significant bilateral relationship globally. we have a common history, shared values and we adhere to democratic principles. this partnership reflects how cross all economic fields underpinned by broad cooperation. it’s not a secret either that in the past four years things have become complicated in our relations. i am looking forward to getting back to a frank dialogue. well, the dialogue has always been frank and wherever possible we have formulated joint strategies and put in the necessary resources to make them possible. first of all, i think that we have to welcome the clear commitment of president-elect biden to restore unity and respect for democratic norms and institutions and work with allies based on true partnership. we are a partner and a capable and strategic approach to the european union-united states relationship has to build on this idea of partnership. for this reason, we have to proceed with our work to enhance what we call europe’s strategic autonomy, a word that will be very much in use, i hope, in the near future, because this means our ability to act and to defend ourselves effectively and at the same time work together with the us in many frameworks, including defence frameworks and others. let me take a quick look at the wider spectrum of global challenges that will be at the heart of our transatlantic agenda. i think that there are some priorities that they want to highlight: to re-energise cooperation for multilateral fora, in particular the united nations; we are continuing to work towards promoting respect for human rights; to address the difficulties of the world trade organization, especially the dispute settlement mechanism; to cooperate in fighting covid-19, including strengthening the workings of the world health organization and the capacity of the global health systems, starting with preparedness and response to emergencies; to accelerate ambitious global climate action and to invest in harnessing that in a logical transformation; to look at china and iran and our neighbourhood, and we will try to reach a common approach with the us. we already started with the previous administration over the last few weeks but for sure it should now be easier. we also need to become a stronger global player for a stronger transatlantic partnership that benefits nato. it’s a busy agenda and our capacity for developing digital strategy partnerships will be more effective if both partners are strong and committed, and of course here in europe we speak with one voice when we engage with the new president, the new administration and the new congress. we need to invest at all levels and talk to our american friends across the aisle. for sure the parliament will also have an important role to play through the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue and other contexts. from our end we will also step up people-to-people programmes – a priority that was supported by this parliament as well and one i hope will continue. all in all, the european union and the united states are, and will remain, key strategic partners of first resort in critically difficult moments, such as the one that we are currently experiencing. a strong transatlantic partnership is of key importance and you can rest assured that we are ready to engage quickly with the new administration, although for that we still have to wait until 20 january, because as you very well know there is quite a long transition ahead. let’s hope it’s not going to be a bumpy transition.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on behalf of the epp group, i would like to congratulate joe biden and kamala harris on their election. we are pleased, as a group which has always attached importance to the transatlantic partnership, that we can return to good relations, to a political framework based on reason, decency, trust, predictability and a partnership based on values. we congratulate the institutions, the countless election workers who have carried out their work unimpeded by politically-motivated doubts and suspicions about the integrity of the election. our european observers have also confirmed that there has been no systematic falsification or irregularity. the osce was represented there with the colleagues of the parliamentary assembly, but unfortunately the european parliament was not. we also congratulate our new and re-elected colleagues in the house of representatives and the senate. we look forward to a broad dialogue with both houses and both parties on all issues of common concern. we wish the new administration first and foremost to get the covid-19 pandemic under control and to reconcile the politically divided nation. as part of the democratic world, we want the us to re-engage and take responsibility where the multilateral rules-based world order needs to be strengthened. we europeans are therefore pleased with the announcement by the president-elect that we will rejoin the paris agreement. we also welcome the intention to return to the world health organization. we must work together to make the wto fully operational again. china's behaviour in the wto is one of the reasons for today's problems. we are therefore not equidistant between the united states and china. we want to work with the united states to achieve a well-coordinated response to this systemic rival. we know the new administration is still reluctant to talk about free trade. but i am convinced that the west can only meet the chinese challenge successfully in the long term if the eu, the us and other allies like canada and japan organize free trade together and set the global standards. i thank the united states for its security policy to take care of vulnerable partners like taiwan. we should make our own contribution, for example by concluding a bilateral investment agreement with this important trading partner. we support the important american considerations of rejoining the iran nuclear agreement. nobody in this world wants an iranian bomb. so all the parties to the deal have to stand behind it, and iran has to come back into compliance with the deal. then we can talk about what else we have to complain about with the country, but that is a separate matter. the united states remains an indispensable nation for the security of europe. but we will only keep them in europe if we share the burden fairly. i want to make it clear to our european doubters: the two percent target on defense spending was not imposed on us by mr. trump, it was a decision of the 2014 nato summit in wales in the face of russian aggression against ukraine. i know that there are political currents here who do not advocate a strong defence or even want to compliment the americans out of europe. "be careful what you wish for" is a beautiful english saying that i would like to share with you. it is important for us europeans that arms control and disarmament agreements remain guaranteed. we know that the new start agreement is about to expire, and i hope that the united states will agree to extend it for another year, and that time must be used for negotiations. there are other agreements which we, as europeans, particularly, would like to see. that's why a predictable us administration is a better partner, even for russia. finally, we are pleased that joe biden is a friend of europe, but especially of ireland, and has made clear how important it is to him to preserve the good friday agreement. we trust that the united states, under his leadership, will not support any agreement that threatens the peace and prosperity of the island of ireland. so much for that. i'm sitting here in 156th place. this is a coincidence, but rule 156 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament says: 'at each sitting a list of those present shall be drawn up for signature by members.' this is not a matter of judgment. mr president, please ensure that the rules of procedure are respected on this matter too.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, ‘while i may be the first woman in this office, i won’t be the last’. these were the words spoken by the new vice president-elect kamala harris in her victory speech. to every little girl watching she said: ‘dream with ambition and lead with conviction’. joe biden and his vice president spoke about the people rather than about themselves, about their plans rather than their egos, and they spoke to inspire, not to divide. the past four years have been tough for our american friends, tough for transatlantic relations and tough for the multilateral global order. five years ago, we watched in horror as this chapter in american history began on the golden elevator in trump tower. on saturday, we saw it coming crashing down in the parking lot of four seasons total landscaping. while this year will go down in history as the year of a global pandemic, economic decline and authoritarian power grabs, the us election result is a clear symbol of hope for all of us. our american friends have demonstrated that yes, democrats can defeat autocrats, yes, facts can defeat disinformation, and hope can defeat fear. the long nightmare is over. well, almost over. it is, of course, worrisome to see that mcconnell and other prominent republicans are doing everything in their power to cast doubt on the fairness of this election, and i believe it’s time to face reality. some of trump’s friends in europe also had to swallow: they hoped for four more years of support for their repressive illiberalism, and they are left empty handed. mr trump has been fired by a majority of the american voters, but he hasn’t conceded. the next 70 days will certainly be bumpy, but they won’t change the facts. i’m hopeful that in the end the democratic institutions will halt the power grab of president trump. on behalf of the entire s&d group, let me congratulate president-elect biden and vice president-elect harris on winning the most important us elections of our generation. we are happy and relieved, while we also know that trumpism is not gone. we know that things have changed in the last four years, and that the eu also needs to take up its own responsibility as a global player. however, it’s good to have an ally in the white house again. and it’s a joy for millions of girls around the world, especially girls of colour, who in kamala harris have the brightest demonstration that there’s nothing they cannot achieve. mr president, let’s make it very clear that we are stronger if we work together, that the damage done is reversible. and therefore let’s do so by inviting president biden to deliver his first foreign address in the european parliament, because there’s no better place to start – to restart – a new transatlantic partnership than at the heart of european democracy.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, after the elections, we all felt relief: relief from the endless stream of fake news and – let’s be honest – the racism of mr trump. but relief is not a strategy; relief doesn’t tell us what to do next. millions of europeans have been watching the american elections, waiting for the verdict of the american people. but the americans will not solve our problems. we shouldn’t live our lives to the rhythm of american democracy. we should live our lives to the beat of our own drum, to the rhythm of european democracy. so, let’s welcome and congratulate president—elect joe biden and vice—president—elect kamala harris with open arms. but let’s do so by building from our own strength. this commission promised to be a geopolitical commission. we have the perfect opportunity now to show the americans we mean business by going forward with the european defence union, by creating a real european migration policy, by building a european intelligence capacity that is able to combat terrorism on the same level as american agencies. mr biden is a friend of europe, but he is also an important architect of america’s china strategy. he might – and let’s hope – he might tweet less than his predecessor, and more politely, but he is also more focused on asia than on europe. it’s high time that europe stood on its own feet. instead of always hiding behind the americans, we need to stand next to the usa. that will be in the interests of both sides of the atlantic.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states is and will always be the pole star for democracy and freedom in the world. the results of the us elections would indicate joe biden as the new president, to whom, if the data are official, we wish him well for his work. the new american administration, whatever its political colour, democratic or republican, will always find in us of the league a serious and reliable ally, firmly aligned with the atlantic alliance in defence of the values and interests of the free west. our pro-atlantic position, which is even super-atlantic on some particularly sensitive issues, such as 5g and the defence of human rights, has never been questioned. the same cannot be said in italy and europe of the many parties or political entities which in words call themselves democratic, such as the pd and the 5 stars, but which in reality defend the positions of communist dictatorships, such as china and venezuela, or criminal regimes such as iran. we do not accept lessons from the false democrats, italians and europeans, who have been waging an absurd war against the trump administration and thus against the united states in recent years. it is common knowledge that we have sympathy and appreciation for trump and his administration. the trump administration's economic and foreign policy successes are in plain sight, and only the blind refuse to see them. trump was the first leader to bring the great danger posed by communist china into the spotlight of world public opinion. to paraphrase a great american president like ronald reagan, trump has the great credit of having made the west understand that communist china is the evil empire of the third millennium, potentially much stronger and more dangerous than soviet communism, because it is a danger that invests the daily lives of each of us. but trump's foreign policy is not just about china: let's think about the iron fist against the maduro dictatorship in venezuela; we think of the fight against islamic terrorism, with the destruction of isis and the targeted killing of soleimani, the military leader of a rogue country like iran that wants to destroy israel with the nuclear bomb. or think about the decisive role trump played in the historic peace agreements between israel and the united arab emirates. and let's always remember that president trump has not started any new wars during his tenure, unlike his predecessor, who has combined many of the wars and damage around the world. it is enough to think of the chaos created in the mediterranean area by the arab spring and the vicious war in libya, which caused very heavy consequences that italy and europe are still paying for, especially those linked to the emergency of illegal immigration. i mean, they should take the nobel peace prize away from democrat obama and give it to trump. now the question everyone is asking is what will biden do about foreign policy: will he follow the courageous and successful path of trump or will he return to the chaotic and bellicose path of obama? how will biden handle the hottest issues, china and 5g, the middle east and iran? will he have the strength and foresight of trump to continue the iron fist with china? will it have the strength to combat the strategy of penetration and infiltration that the beijing regime is pursuing in our society, our economy and even our institutions? we hope that biden will continue to fight the right battle against the chinese communist dictatorship, which represents the greatest threat to our freedom and democracy. and we hope that europe too will finally give up its double standards, its ambiguities and its blood-soaked dealings with beijing. we are at a crossroads in history. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. "do not be afraid", said pope john paul ii. we are not afraid to stand with the united states of america in this battle of civilization, for good to triumph over evil and for freedom to triumph over dictatorship.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, these us elections have brought some good news. trump is out, even if he himself doesn’t yet want to believe it. i’m sure he will see soon. joe biden and his promise of politics based on respect for each other, for facts, and for science has won. kamala harris, vice president-elect, achieved something truly historic. a first woman, a woman of colour: harris smashed many glass ceilings, and while a lot remains to be done on gender equality, this breakthrough will have a long-lasting impact. but, while trump is voted out of the white house, trumpism – or whatever you want to call this disastrous mix of nationalism, racism, and narcissism – got a lot of support. and it also has a lot of support in europe and even among some eu governments, as we have seen. democracy, equality and rule of law are not a given on either side of the atlantic. it is something we have to strive for every day and never take for granted. movements like black lives matter, like me too, and journalists, democracy activists and many more fought back and defended democracy in the us for the past four years. they are the ones that should be celebrated in these elections. transatlantic relations have taken a hard hit over the past four years, and while we all hope and we can be sure that they will become better now, the lesson learned for europe is that it needs to stand more on its own two feet. in order to be able to do that, we need to also stand stronger together and more firmly. for that, we need to have a common understanding of fundamental values because if we don’t know on what grounds we stand as a union then we cannot grow. and equally, we cannot shy away from the responsibilities of our actions in the external world. that goes for the climate crisis, for weapons exports, for conflict parties or for shady energy projects with even more shady partners such as nord stream. if we want europe to be taken seriously by the world, we have to take ourselves seriously first, and that means taking responsibility for our actions and their impact in the world, no matter who rules the white house.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, thank you for your speech. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it would be proper and normal to wait for the final results of the elections. the election is not decided by the media, no matter how biased, but by the legitimate institutions of each country. so wait for the media, don't be in a hurry to rejoice, colleagues. i'm talking about the colleague who before me was so pleased and partial to one of the two candidates. what is important for us as citizens of european union member states is to continue to maintain our transatlantic relationship with the united states of america. no matter who is the president, we must continue the black sea cooperation, we must continue the cooperation in the field of defense, security. we must continue to support the rebuilding of our armed forces' capabilities so that we can be adequate to the challenges that are all around us. what we need is to respond to the challenges from china, from turkey, from russia, they are hostile to us. i say this about the communists, the bolsheviks and the colleague who spoke before me. she also sympathizes with these ideas. and to know that these countries around here are not our friends. the united states is our strategic partner and we need to work with them in a profound, sensible, meaningful way and in the interest of all our citizens. thank you for your attention.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not democracy has won. it was close, but after four years of trump's contempt for democracy, after attacks on the press and minorities, after open collaboration with the far right and even racist armed militias, the voters in the united states said: enough is enough, get this autocrat out of the white house. because this election in the united states was not a normal election between two candidates from different parties. it was a choice between democracy on the one hand and authoritarianism on the other. and the voters, after four years of trumpism, have chosen democracy over authoritarianism. and this result, ladies and gentlemen, was achieved by an alliance of forces from the left to the liberal right. and it will hurt the demagogues, the autocrats and dictators and their friends all over this world and also in the european union and strengthen all those forces that are standing up to guys like trump. and it is against this background that i also spoke and took the floor in the run-up to the elections and asked your boss, vice-president borrell - you are unfortunately no longer here - to do the same. a clear statement by the european union - not in favour of either candidate but in favour of respect for democratic values and basic standards - would have been a sign of strength in foreign policy. it wasn't your silence. because when democracy is threatened, democrats cannot remain silent. still unable to admit defeat, donald trump defiantly barricades himself like a little child in the white house. he must recognize the election result and guarantee a peaceful transfer of power. the fact that the result is so close should make us all think. we must tackle the causes of the emergence of such anti-democratic politicians, that is, overcome the social divisions in our societies and solve the questions of the future, such as digitisation and climate protection, in a socially just way. i want to congratulate joe biden and kamala harris on their convincing win. so this victory belongs to the young people and the marginalized communities who have fought so hard. but the dangers of trumpism remain. the narrative that demands like medicare for all, or movements like black lives matter, pose a threat to progressive electoral victories is completely wrong. the evidence shows the opposite is true: it would be a fatal mistake now to sideline the new generation of leftist leaders who contributed to this victory. the repair of us society requires strong, principled leadership that boldly tackles both inequality and climate change. mr. president-elect, you succeeded because of the unity of progressive forces: their hopes lie on you. do not let them down or trumpism will be back.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, the great exercise of democracy that has seen some 160 million americans - the largest turnout since 1900 - engaged in electing their new president now leaves room for a transition that risks being among the most complex ever, with covid-19 cases per day reaching 100,000 and an outgoing president who does not seem willing to make a painless handover. yet something has changed, and it is no accident that the whole world has held its breath and spent sleepless nights in the exhausting wait for a verdict, which has never been so long in this case. a new phase is opening up, and it is certainly a delicate one: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. i 'll make this clear: i expect a lot from this american presidency. i expect that the fight against climate change and rising inequality, the biggest systemic crises of this generation, will return to the center of the u.s. and global agenda. i expect an end to the senseless and perpetual trade war we have seen in recent years; coordination and not opposition. i still expect the eu to find its american partner in global governance and the us to regain its place in the international multilateral system by reconsidering some of the critical decisions taken by the trump administration, such as its participation in the iran nuclear deal. i hope that the indissoluble transatlantic bond will be reaffirmed once again, a bond based on our common values, on the firm defence of democracy, the rule of law and freedom, which have never been called into question but have certainly been put to the test, indeed extremely tested, in recent years, and that this will also happen in the light of the renewed process of integration and the search for the eu's strategic autonomy. i know, president biden, i expect a lot and we expect a lot. we're ready to go. i wish you a good job and we look forward to seeing you in brussels.
the debate on the results of the us presidential election is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european union's eagerness to welcome joe biden's victory, to the point that the president of the commission thought it appropriate to talk about a new partnership even before the inauguration of the president, contrasts with the caution of some heads of state, from china to russia to mexico. it is therefore strange that brussels, which is always quick to hand out patents of democratic virtue to the four corners of the world, should ignore the heavy uncertainties that still weigh on this contested election. i would remind you, however, that us attorney general william barr on monday authorised investigations into possible fraud. unfortunately, this is only the least of the scandals that have tainted this extraordinary election. the media frenzy in particular has reached depths rarely equaled against a president whose only fault is that he has made himself the herald of the flyover country - an american echo of peripheral france, forgotten by globalization. certainly, this harangue against a candidate disgraced by the establishment does not bode well for the upcoming elections in the western world, at a time when public freedoms are in a dramatic decline.
in writing. – i welcome the victory of mr joe biden in the us presidential election and i particularly salute his commitment to re-join the paris climate agreement, in line with the eu’s green deal ambition. the eu and u.s. share common history and values of democracy, human rights, freedom and open economy. i find this moment a good opportunity to reenergise eu’s transatlantic partnership with our long-time allies and friends and to jointly address increasing and pressing global challenges, such as: climate change, digital transformation, security, defence and the rules-based multilateral system. in the same time, engagement to nato remains a pillar of security and economic prosperity on both sides of the atlantic. in my capacities as chair of itre committee and rapporteur for eu programme for health, i highlight just a recent outcome of good eu-us collaboration, where a joint project between a european and an american company succeed to develop a strongly effective vaccine against covid-19, bringing back hope to people all over the world. together, the eu and us represent over a half of the global gdp. this one more reason to be confident that together we can lead the global agenda towards a liberal and rules-based international system.
in writing. the new us presidential administration is expected to bring about an improvement in relations between europe and the us to the level they were before the previous presidential elections. it is also very important for estonia, both from the point of view of security and the economic environment. our focus should be on getting europe and the us back to the very good, substantive cooperation that we have had in the past. in the face of growing pressure from china, russia and other authoritarian forces, the comprehensive and open cooperation between europe and the us is a vital safeguard for our value space.
in writing. congratulations to the winner of the election, who has become joe biden, with the highest number of votes in the history of the election. on the other hand, i see a very divided american society. but i think that the direction in which the transatlantic relationship will develop is essential from the european point of view. from removing trade barriers to addressing environmental challenges to promoting democracy at home and around the world. it is precisely closer cooperation between democracies that is necessary, because a democratic world needs much more cooperation between each other.
the election of joe biden and kamala harris is hopeful. after years of political turmoil, fake news and polarization, she offers the american people a new perspective on a unifying presidency that addresses the great economic, social, societal and climate challenges. the eu is also happy to see the changing of the guard at the white house. as the us returns to the international table, a renewed partnership with the eu offers opportunities to be a strong voice for democracy and human rights. we are stronger together: the same is true for the global fight against climate change and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy. the eu has taken the lead in achieving the objectives of the paris agreement on climate change with the green deal. in this area too, we hope to find in the new president a partner for ambitious climate policy. finally, the new role of the united states in international trade is to be looked at. we hope to find in the usa a partner to reinforce multilateral cooperation, reform the wto and develop a new partnership with asia and africa.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the fight against terrorism and the right to freedom of expression and education (rsp) [2020/2841]. i would remind you that this debate is scheduled to include a round of speakers from the political groups and that there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure or 'blue card' questions. the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states are expected to provide assistance.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think we are all still in shock because of the recent terrorist attacks in austria and france. my thoughts are with the victims, their families and friends. my thoughts are with the french and austrian people and i know yours are as well. let’s be clear: these were attacks on our european values, on fundamental rights and freedoms. samuel paty taught history, geography and civics. his brutal murder was a direct attack on our values, rights and freedoms – the freedom of expression and information, the right to education, the freedom of thought, conscience and religion. we need to unite and show strong solidarity as a union. no member state can or should face this threat alone. we need to unite as a society. we need to show that our values are unbreakable and that we cannot be divided on this, and we need to do more to protect our citizens, our societies and our values. the vienna attack shows the need to stop illegal firearms. member states must urgently implement the firearms directive. before the summer, we launched an action plan against firearms trafficking. we are working closely with western balkans partners to fight the smuggling of illegal guns. and we need to register all known foreign terrorist fighters in the schengen information system so that we can detect them when they try to cross eu borders. the vienna attacker tried to buy ammunition in slovakia. there were contacts in germany and switzerland. we need to better share information and to share better information across borders. the schengen information system is central here, but so are pnr – passenger name records. they are essential to deter and detect terrorist suspects. member states should implement the pnr directive. i am planning to update the prüm decision to make it easier for law enforcement to exchange dna, fingerprints and number plates, and, in future, possibly also photos and police records. i want us, together in the european union, to move away from ad hoc police cooperation towards systematic police partnership. the commission has started work on an eu police cooperation code. better information-sharing also means making sure that it systems can talk to each other. member states need to work hard to achieve full interoperability by 2023. europol is the backbone of european police cooperation and europol is providing concrete and invaluable support to the french and austrian authorities as we speak. already this year, i will propose a reinforced mandate for europol so it can do an even better job at fighting crime and terror. the recent attackers struck in a church in nice and in the streets and cafés of vienna. the commission is supporting member states to increase the protection of public spaces. small actions can make a difference, sometimes between life and death. last year, a far-right terrorist attacked a synagogue in halle in germany. a reinforced door and the security cameras helped to save thousands of lives. the commission made eur 12 million available to improve security in places of worship. i’m looking into possibilities to increase this amount. samuel paty’s murderer used the internet to identify his horrible crime and afterwards posted pictures of his victim online. the vienna attacker posted a picture with an ak-47. in one month, in july this year, europol’s internet referral unit took down 2 000 links to terrorist content, including tutorials on how to carry out an attack. europol will continue to work with platforms who want to help, but voluntary cooperation is not enough. member states need to be able to order the removal of terrorist content from any hosting service provider, irrespective of its place of establishment, with eu-wide effects in one hour. i call on this house, this parliament, for an agreement on the proposed regulation to prevent the dissemination of terrorist content online as soon as possible. besides police intervention, the european union also invests in the prevention of radicalisation. prevention is better than cure. it’s difficult to measure terrorist attacks that are prevented, but our police forces, with the help of europol, work hard every day to do justice. the radicalisation awareness network connects teachers, social workers and community police officers. when they successfully lead someone away from violence, there are seldom big headlines, but the results are spectacular. there are former neo-nazis, former violent islamists who now reject violence and help others to do the same. without the radicalisation awareness network and their job, these people would perhaps still be a danger to society. in a few weeks, on 9 december, i will present our new counter-terrorism agenda. the objective will be to identify and close security gaps in law enforcement cooperation, in the use of technology and information-sharing, to prevent radicalisation, to protect public spaces and to work with member states, regions, cities and towns and also with key third-country partners. but we also need to look beyond counter-terrorism. terrorists seek to divide us: to draw a line between ‘them and us’. we can only counter this by offering an inclusive, cohesive society in which everyone has a stake, where there is no ‘them and us’. later this month i will launch an action plan on integration and inclusion, based on opportunities and obligations. everyone who has a legal right to be in europe should have the opportunity to take part in society, a society where everyone is protected by european values and fundamental rights, and where everyone must respect those same values and rights, that includes the freedom of speech and the freedom of expression. fundamental rights, the eu will defend – that includes also the freedom of religion, but we will never accept violence in the name of religion. education, culture and sport also have a key role to play in this. mr president, today is armistice day. europe commemorates the end of the first world war 102 years ago: a war that started with a violent attack – the assassination of archduke franz ferdinand in 1914. new attacks have such cataclysmic consequences. but this is what we mean by ‘terrorist offence’: international acts which, given their nature or context, may seriously damage a country or an international organisation. this reminds us that our struggle is not a new one. when i grew up, there was the raf, the red brigades, the ira, eta. the terrorists change, their causes change and their methods change. what doesn’t change is the fear, the death and the suffering that they bring. what we must do is to be united as a union and as a society and to do everything we can to oppose them, to fight them, to defeat them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the terrorist attacks in paris, nice and vienna are shaking europe. and the attacks are attacks on the whole of europe, on our values, on our ideas, on our democracy, on our way of life. the victims are the focus. we're also grieving with the families. in paris, a 47-year-old teacher with a son, in nice, three dead, including a 44-year-old nurse who was just coming home from work. in vienna, four people died: a 44-year-old woman on her way home from work, a 39-year-old chinese restaurant owner and a 22-year-old german art student. people were murdered indiscriminately. many bereaved ones are grieving, and these thoughts are first in our hearts. i would also like to thank the authorities, the police, the emergency services, the rescue services, the medical staff who helped. they too have done an excellent job and deserve our thanks. grief alone is not enough. in the last 22 months, 119 terrorist attacks have been committed in europe. almost every country in europe, almost every city in europe has already suffered and knows the threat, knows the fear and knows the grief. now it's time to say enough. we will not be brought to our knees by the violent. the fight against radical islamism and islamists is the task we must tackle now. they are fighting our way, and that is why we must now take a very hard line against these islamist threats. terrorists don't kill by themselves. they're following a propaganda. they are recruited and supported by structures in the background. all these radical islamists are fighting our democracy and are enemies of our freedom - including religious freedom. and that's why we have to break down the networks and the structures now. what can be done? the first important point is: there are many people who, unfortunately, grow out of our societies and become radical. so we have to ask ourselves, what is wrong when people who have been educated with us, who have grown up with us, become radicals and individualists? we need to instill more ambition and invest in our values of tolerance and freedom. and we have to make sure that recruitment on the web, on social networks, can no longer be so effective. this is why the eu commission's proposed directive on the removal of online content that promotes and glorifies terrorism is so important. and i now ask my colleagues from renew and the social democrats to end their blockade of this legislation. we've already lost too much time. legislation has been on the table for years and unfortunately god is not making progress. it is now time to complete this legislation. the second is that we need the full implementation of the arms directive as the commissioner has said. and i also ask the commissioner to press her colleagues in the home office to ensure that the existing laws regulating and preventing access to arms are uniformly implemented across the continent. another big issue for us as the evp is a central threat file. the schengen information system is unfortunately based on voluntary action only. we need it. all the dangers we have on this continent, which are monitored by the national authorities, must be compulsorily, bindingly entered in the common databases so that all police forces have the same level of information. terrorism is transnational and europe must respond to it transnational. we therefore also call for europol's powers to be extended so that it is not only advisory, not only supportive, but also develops independent investigative capacities in the fight against islamist terrorist cells. we want to strengthen europol in this context too. and finally, the question of border control, which has just been discussed at the mini-summit in paris. yes border security needs to be improved. yes schengen needs to be reviewed. there must be no passport-free entry, as is already the case in europe. and we need a binding, binding network of files so that already at the external border it can be checked whether data exists against certain threats. and the biggest problem is enforcement, which needs to be addressed accordingly. mr president, commissioner, there is a lot to do. we have to do this together. the question of terrorism is back on the political agenda, and the most important thing we have to say about it is: we must not allow the fight against terrorism by radical forces to create a division between religions. religious freedom is enjoyed on this continent. this is not a religious fight. it's a war on terror that we're fighting. let's take him on.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, unfortunately we have to talk again about terrorism in this house, about terrorism which seeks to undermine the foundations of our liberal and democratic societies. the recent terrorist attacks in france and austria have filled us with sadness, but they will not overcome us. on the contrary, we will pursue the fanatics without compromising our principles. i would like to reiterate my condolences to the victims and their families, all our solidarity. we cannot give up freedom of speech and freedom of education. without them, europe would not exist and they are fundamental principles of our union. even in cases where i disagree with the content, i always support freedom, because it is the basis of a democratic and plural society. we must educate in freedom of conscience and critical thinking. that is why i also want to pay tribute to professor samuel paty. his legacy will not be forgotten. but we also must not allow the violent to divide us, because that's what they want. we must distinguish between islam as a religion and radical islam as a political ideology that does not accept freedom and pluralism. we respond to the terrorist threat from unity in diversity. and we must do so with the instruments of the rule of law. every time barbarism hits us, we repeat the same thing: the need to strengthen the exchange of information between member states. what is the council waiting for to create a real european intelligence agency? we also need to make sure that terrorist groups do not exploit any loopholes to fund their killing campaign. and at the same time, we must invest in social inclusion, to give a future to young people who, perhaps disillusioned and marginalized, are dragged along by fanatics. that's why it's critical to tackle terrorist content circulating on social media. these have become a powerful instrument for radicalisation and recruitment. we will continue to legislate to stop misinformation and hate speech. the european parliament is to adopt new rules for online platforms to remove any content promoting terrorism. i have listened to mr weber today and to some members of the european people's party in the course of the last few days. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. do not try to put the blame and responsibility on those of us who are working on this issue with the same commitment as you. we have to find a balance that guarantees security but also freedom of expression. we don't want to give up any of them. i would also like to refer to the schengen debate. some voices are diverting the focus and proposing border controls in the schengen area, linking migration and terrorism. but as europol reminds us, there is no conclusive data to link the two phenomena. schengen is a great achievement of the union and we must not weaken it for short-term interests. it's always a tricky balance, but we can't sacrifice our freedoms and our open societies for the sake of security. because then the violent will have won the battle.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, democracy in the european union is a matter for everyone and terrorism puts us to the test. the emotion at the pain of the innocent must become the motor for the action that is our responsibility as politicians, because we are co-responsible for the response against atrocity. on behalf of my group, i would stress zero tolerance for intolerant people, and that means using the force of the law, all the law, but nothing outside the law; it means assessing changes in the threat so as not to leave any blind spots where murderers can escape. terrorists are great moral manipulators: they point to themselves as victims - they, the murderers - and they want to impose their obsessions on us. and no, we are not responsible for their heinous acts, but they can poison many; and that is why we have to innovate in preventing violent radicalization, especially at the local level; and that is why the work of the school and the public against the frameworks of intolerance and in favor of freedom of expression is so important, as samuel paty well knew. the european parliament was very useful in the previous mandate after the attacks in paris, after the attacks in brussels, in germany, in manchester, in barcelona, in stockholm, in liège, and it must be so now, after the attacks in hanau, in paris, in nice, in vienna. society and victims need answers, recognition and solutions. in the previous term of office, commissioner king or gilles de kerchove were really important and this parliament was also important and now it has to be important again. there was a great deal of agreement on improving coordination between countries against financing, against impunity, for the rights of victims; we strengthened europol. we are pending the development of recommendations from the special commission on terrorism. terrorism can only succeed in places where institutions are degraded, with incompetent rulers, with politicians who argue about what they shouldn't argue, with misguided public servants, in broken societies. we are not, but it is also true that terrorism cannot be defeated without effort and commitment, and we are effectively negotiating with the council the regulation on the removal of terrorist content online. it must be effective, it must have safeguards for rights and freedoms. and we know that whoever has more power has more responsibility and that is why i hope that it will be possible to reach a consensus very soon. of course, my group will not stop fighting until we achieve this. commissioner, those who are becoming radicalized must know - and all of europe must know - that we are not going to leave any room or any space for their anti-democratic strategy, and our work, when it is well founded, disables them, discourages them. the novelist amos oz once wrote that the essence of fanaticism lies in the desire to force others to change: terrorists aim for it from cruelty. the renew group wants to make it clear that we have reason and reasons to defend freedoms and coexistence. that is our strength, that is our tribute to each innocent victim and their loved ones: not to forget them, to remain effective and to remain free.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, what was attacked in vienna? what was attacked in nice and madrid, amsterdam, london, milan, stockholm, toulouse, brussels, copenhagen, paris, berlin, st petersburg? just a few hours ago, the french consul general was again targeted in jeddah, saudi arabia, while presiding over a ceremony to mark the 11th of november. almost all our countries are affected and all are threatened. too many to mention, no victim should be forgotten: 450 people have been killed by islamist terrorism in europe, from the infamous madrid bombing in 2004 to the one in austria 10 days ago. what's under attack is our civilization. you wanted to build the european union and its treaties while forgetting our christian roots. you wanted to build a superstate on abstract universal values. you wanted to deny our shared past to make a supermarket without identity. but today, it's our inner selves that are being targeted. the islamists are coming to remind us of that. it is not secularism, not colonialism, not even our freedom of expression that they vomit: it is above all what we are. they attack us for who we are, not what we do. we cannot fight this battle if we refuse to identify the enemy. we cannot win it if we refuse to assert and defend our identity. today, in the house, to deal with this fundamental subject, you have only a short debate and a single round of speakers. the title itself carefully avoids the term "islamism". with our civilization under attack and siege, what do you propose? emmanuel macron, the french president, claims to fight islamism by strengthening communitarianism, by making it common for arabic to be taught in schools and by taking over the training of imams by the state - a crazy idea that charles michel, incidentally, immediately took up. so we would have imams trained by the european union? will we soon need a european commissioner for islam? recently, mr borrel, the high representative for foreign affairs, said that it was up to the refugees to decide for themselves whether or not they wanted to return to syria. and just yesterday, mrs johansson, you said, in a mixture of naivety and complete irresponsibility, that, and i quote, 'migration is not a danger'. wouldn't migration be a danger to you, mrs johansson? the last three attacks in france were carried out by migrants. he's a pakistani who attacked journalists in paris. he's a chechen who cut the throat of a teacher in conflans. he's a tunisian who just arrived via lampedusa who murdered three people in a church in nice. taking advantage of your hesitation and cowardice, erdoğan is also advancing. because the european union does not dare to act, it is waging war on armenia and libya, deploying jihadists from the ranks of daesh. it threatens our continent with a flood of migration. he converted the hagia sophia into a mosque. turkey, and with it the islamists of the world, are inscribed in the longest memory, unlike you. you want to train imams, we want to expel hate preachers. you want frontex to secure the migrants' crossing, we want frontex to bring them home. you are giving subsidies and customs facilities to islamic countries like pakistan and turkey, and we want to sanction them. you consider free movement an inviolable dogma, we consider the security of europeans an inalienable right. you're funding islamist organizations, we want to disband them. yes, i'm weighing my words, you're funding islamist organizations. even here in this parliament, islamist organisations such as femyso have been able to take part in official events. when you don't give them the floor, you give them money: 51,000 euros for the ccif, 584,000 euros for the islamic human rights watch, which called charlie hebdo islamophobic, 5.6 million euros for the muslim brotherhood networks. in total, over the last five years, the european union has paid €36.5 million directly to the islamists or to projects with which they were associated. i have put a written question to the commission on this to finally stop this, and i am still waiting for the answer. you want to turn illegal immigration into legal immigration, we want to end illegal immigration, family reunification and settlement immigration, because mass immigration is obviously the breeding ground of islamism. we must stop the arrivals and consider that the welcome and generosity of our countries are not permanent. the settlement of foreigners on our soil must not be considered irreversible. if we show weakness, then they will rule over us. if we act cowardly, they will subdue us. if we can be assertive, we will endure. if we are able to fight hard for our civilized values, we will win. aeschylus had already said of the greeks and, through them, of all europeans, that they "consider themselves neither slaves nor subjects of anyone". the time for compromise, which unfortunately you are often accustomed to, must end. we must not give in to the demands of the islamists. we will not submit, and all those who want to impose it on us, all those who prefer the sharia to our laws and way of life, all those who want to weaken our civilization and replace it with their own will have to leave. our freedom comes at that price. history has shown that the nations of europe are capable of rising up, capable of fighting together against a common enemy, and only in this way will we win this war.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the brutal murder of samuel paty, nice, vienna, kabul: all these innocent victims have in common the desire for freedom. voltaire said, "i disagree with what you say, but i will fight for your right to say it". but how? the fight against terrorism is a long-term, analytical, understanding and action-oriented endeavour. the fight against terrorism is above all about promoting freedom of expression and education, it is about getting out of the binary view of good and evil, of a world that is confronting each other, it is about promoting brotherhood, tolerance. preserving our rights, duties and values means passing them on, educating, dialogue, exchanging and cultivating them. the fight against terrorism is about promoting an inclusive, egalitarian society in which no discrimination has a place, because terrorism feeds on the hatred and divisions of those who suffer marginalization, oppression, disrespect, and the removal of sources of information and education. the fight against descolarization, illiteracy, misinformation and literacy is a constant battle to be waged among our youth, rich in their diversity. the fight against terrorism is also a fight against ourselves, against our prejudices, our oppressions, against individual and systemic racism. the real doctrine of a fight against terrorism is a doctrine in favour of the citizen of the world, with his culture or cultures, his history or stories, without hierarchy, without domination. and these times of crisis are far too often reclaimed by short-term populist discourses, which divide and fuel terrorism, far more than they advance the fight against barbarism. the rights and freedoms which the state is supposed to protect are at risk of being restricted by actions which are supposed to defend them. in a security context, some discriminatory actions become gradually acceptable in response to attacks. finally, if we renounce respect for human rights, equality and the protection of the rule of law in order to combat terrorism, we risk playing into the hands of those who attack us on the basis of these values.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in conflans, nice and vienna, three times in less than a month, terrorism has struck us in the flesh. on behalf of our group of the european left, i would first of all like to join the messages of emotion and solidarity for the victims of these heinous murders and for their relatives. as our societies are weakened by the health crisis, the climate catastrophe and the explosion of poverty, this series of abject attacks has a clear political objective: to weaken us by dividing us. and i am warning you today with all my heart: let them not win. the european public debate, taking up the increasingly hateful rhetoric of the far right, is taking a disturbing turn, venturing down the dangerous slope of assumed authoritarianism and uncompromising racism. in france, a witch hunt was initiated by the government, which at times accused opposition parties, university professors, of complicity with terrorists, which implied the existence of a link between halal shelves in supermarkets and the rise of religious extremism. across europe, politicians are calling for new emergency laws to free the fight against terrorism from the most basic rules of law, as if adopting the enemy's methods would protect us from it. this is a fundamental error. on the contrary, in the face of terrorists, the rule of law is not a weakness, it is our strongest shield. any challenge to our fundamental freedoms is a defeat in their ambition to bring down our democracies. any stigmatization of muslims as scapegoats is a gift to those who seek to reignite religious wars. these drifting are as dangerous as they are ineffective. the terrorist threat must be tackled with firmness and seriousness, and with one imperative in mind: the preservation of our cohesion. we must of course actively combat jihadist networks, by providing our judiciary and intelligence services with sufficient resources, by attacking tax havens and banks that launder the terrorists' dirty money, by profoundly changing our commercial and military alliances with the states that subsidize them. but we must also tackle the soil which allows jihadists to recruit and fundamentalism to flourish. discrimination, racism, ghettoization, the disappearance of local public services, and precariousness are the allies of terrorists. we must actively combat the systematic relegation of part of our population. investment in the education system must finally be our compass. it is our teachers, like samuel paty, who teach young people freedom of conscience and expression, the right to caricature, respect for the opinion of others. it is in schools that the citizens of tomorrow are formed. our teachers are the best weapon against the dark. so let's not let the terrorists dictate their political agenda and dictate the terms of the debate. let us not fall into their trap and destroy our unbreakable unity.
in writing. a professor of history and geography beheaded in paris for teaching a course on freedom of expression; a brutal attack in the cathedral of notre-dame in nice where 3 people lost their lives; another one in vienna, where four people died and many more were injured. terrorism continues to bleed europe, attacks the freedoms, the fundamental values which are at the basis of our european construction. a strong common response is therefore needed. the eu's efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime, which also provides support and resources to terrorist groups through trafficking, especially drugs and arms, must be strengthened, with the exchange of information, judicial and investigative coordination and financial assistance. in conjunction with the new agenda for combating terrorism envisaged by the commission, the union must equip itself with more effective instruments, such as extending the powers of the european public prosecutor's office to include terrorism and related financial crimes, by providing it with the necessary resources and means, and also by strengthening europol, in order to create a true european intelligence agency. in the face of terrorism, we must respond with determination and firmness, in defence of european citizens and our shared values of freedom and peace.
in writing. terrorism is one of the greatest threats of our time, and terrorists are ruthless criminals with no values or moral boundaries. in their attacks, they use new techniques and technologies, often with the aim of getting media attention, with unprecedented brutality. the recent attacks in france and austria, which have religious and cultural overtones, only demonstrate how much more we need to do to ensure a high level of security for our citizens. in their activities of incitement, recruitment for terrorist activities and organising terrorist acts, terrorists increasingly use information tools, including the internet, while also using information dispersion to cause psychosis, chaos, uncontrolled reactions. this makes it increasingly difficult to draw a line in practice between freedom of expression and violation of human rights. by definition, freedom of speech is the right of every individual, but how do you draw the line when faced with imminent danger? so we have a very difficult task ahead of us. we must remember that security and freedom are complementary, and human rights should be central to counterterrorism strategies. the new initiatives and methods we propose to prevent and combat terrorism must at the same time ensure that security, human rights and law enforcement are not mutually exclusive but complementary.
in writing. the murder of professor samuel paty, a victim of islamist barbarism, has highlighted the climate of intolerance and hatred that prevails today in some french schools, where freedom of opinion and expression is the target of unprecedented attacks by an islamist movement whose model remains that of the sharia, which is incompatible with democracy and the very principles of the republican school, such as secularism and gender equality. to enforce it, some islamists are prepared to commit the worst atrocities. this murder, like that of the three christians in the basilica of notre-dame in nice, follows a worldwide campaign of hatred against "blasphemous france", orchestrated in particular by the muslim brotherhood, turkey, qatar and pakistan. a hateful propaganda, relayed in france by the supporters and propagandists of this deadly ideology: a galaxy of islamist associations, some of which have a street presence in many european countries. we must react to this attack on democracy and our european values. we must denounce and ban, once and for all, the organizations, preachers and foreign nationals who are spearheading islamist ideology and its armed wing: terrorism in france.
in writing. europe has once again been confronted by armed bloody terrorist attacks, motivated by extreme religious fanaticism and hate speech, which have cost the lives of many of our fellow men and whose only purpose is to sow fear and undermine our principles and values. the attacks in france and austria show that a new difficult period is beginning for europe's relations with extremist islamist regimes, which should bring us all together in solidarity. we have made many steps in the fight against terrorism, but we still have a long and difficult road ahead. enhanced cooperation between eu countries and the exchange of information should continue, as they have helped prevent attacks or limit their impact. in the last 22 months, 119 terrorist attacks on european soil have been prevented. however, the radicalisation of young islamists who have been trained to hate europe, democracy and our institutions, and islamist propaganda online that promotes terrorism, must be addressed immediately and in a targeted manner. the threats we face are common and so must be our approach, without compromising our values, our freedoms, our way of life or the security of european citizens.
the s&d group has informed the president of a decision to amend the appointments in the delegations. this decision will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will come into force on the date of this announcement. i should also like to inform you that we shall have to adjourn the sitting for a short time to allow the interpreters to change their shifts and the booths to be disinfected. the sitting will resume at 7.55 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m.)
the rapporteur. madam president, €600 billion, the report we are voting on this week on how to avoid climate and social chaos says that €600 billion more investment is needed every year. in the face of governments that did not want to give up one euro, the team that negotiated for the european parliament got 2 billion more. thank you to margarida and the whole team. that's really good. but we all know in our hearts that this budget is not up to the task. mr commissioner responsible for the budget, mr johannes, madam secretary of state, mrs bettina, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that in the coming weeks it will still be possible to complete this budget - i say complete it, not renegotiate it, complete it to be up to the task, to give more resources to health, the climate and employment. if we were in a period of stability, if everything was fine, i would say bravo, thank you, and i would stop my hunger strike. but we all know that we are facing three historic crises, three crises of unprecedented magnitude. to deal with this health crisis, we need more resources immediately for hospitals, we need more resources for research, to find new vaccines, to prevent the next pandemic. to deal with the social crisis, 18 months ago, ursula von der leyen said: we are heading for a new economic crisis and to avoid a surge in unemployment, all member states must be allowed to develop kurzarbeit. ursula von der leyen said: europe must help each country to protect jobs. the kurzarbeit system is very simple: if a company is faced with an economic shock, instead of laying off a third of the employees, it reduces working hours, wages are reduced, there are subsidies that maintain 95% of income. ursula von der leyen said: we are heading for an economic shock, we must avoid a surge in unemployment, europe must help the member states. why is there not a line or a billion for these employment protection schemes today? to cope with the ecological crisis, some believe that, with the economic crisis, the co2 evolution has calmed down. unfortunately, that's not true. forest fires in 2020 have reached unprecedented levels. australian forest fires: 440 dead 440 dead in australian forest fires! the wildfires in siberia, in america, make 2020 the worst year ever for co2 evolution. and yes, co2 is directly linked to the slowdown in economic activity, but overall, this is going to be one of the worst years, so we can't wait to take action on climate. we have to act forcefully. humanity no longer has time for small-scale politics. humanity wants to stop rust, it's time to propose a new deal for europe. we all know, my friends, that europe is at a crossroads. we are all aware that the combination of the social crisis, the climate crisis and the health crisis can lead us to collapse. it was said the other day in the committee on budgets that with the crisis of 1929 europe had sunk into barbarism, and we all know that the present crisis is worse than the crisis of 1929. and we're not, collectively, up to the task. but with the unanimity rule, i think it was impossible to do better, our negotiating team did the best we could. the rule of unanimity, it's impossible to continue like this. with unanimity, it is the most stupid, the most selfish, the most blind to the dangers of the medium term, which can block any negotiation. no human group functions with unanimity - not a football club, not a choir, not a business, not a democratic parliament. unanimity is paralysis. that is why, in the report we are going to adopt this week on the financing of the green deal, we say that we must move beyond unanimity and relaunch, without delay, the negotiations on the financial transaction tax with 10 or 15 countries by means of enhanced cooperation. we cannot, in the name of unanimity, block health or climate measures. in this report we ask for this enhanced cooperation to be accelerated for a financial transaction tax which would bring in 57 billion, the report says. parliament wants the real financial transaction tax, not the tiny one. yes, my friends, it's time to invent something new! if we want to avoid chaos in the next 10 or 15 years, it is time to propose a new deal for europe. new deal: that's the name of my party in france, in reference to roosevelt's new deal. and when mrs von der leyen talks about a green new deal, she is obviously referring to roosevelt's new deal. but for roosevelt, it wasn't just beautiful speeches. roosevelt gave himself the means to create millions of jobs, he tripled the federal budget. he tripled the federal budget and wanted a balanced budget. that's why he's creating a tax on millionaires, he's introducing a tax on the profits of big corporations. the bankers are furious and say that roosevelt is a communist who will kill america. but roosevelt is holding on, he didn't kill america. on the contrary, at the moment when europe was going towards barbarism, roosevelt saved social cohesion and saved democracy, and the united states was able to help europe afterwards. so, yeah, when you have real ambition, you have real budget. what is our ambition today, and what are our means? i would like to speak here with bettina hagedorn - you represent the council of heads of state and government - and i would like to address mrs merkel and mr macron. mrs merkel and mr macron, with your statement of 18 may you really had a catalytic effect, a catalytic effect. you have proposed a very bold plan: 500 billion in public debt for a stimulus package. of course, at the beginning, there are four countries that said no, no, never. but two months later, the momentum was so strong that everyone agreed on a plan of almost 400 billion investments. it was impossible, but you did it, and parliament thanks you for it. similarly, if we want to find ways to have more money for hospitals, for the climate, for research, for jobs, it is still possible to find new resources. it is possible to launch very quickly - we have been talking about it for nine years, the directive has been on the table for nine years, we have been doing the impact study for nine years which shows that it is possible - it is possible to create a financial transaction tax very quickly with countries that want to do so. let us show mrs merkel and mr macron that we are serious about our commitment. mrs merkel, you absolutely want a climate agreement, an ambitious agreement on 10 and 11 december, and you are absolutely right. you've been interested in climate for 25 years - you were the one who hosted the first climate summit in berlin 25 years ago. but the only way to have a real ambitious agreement on 10 and 11 december is to unblock funding, otherwise many countries will block the climate agreement, and this is dramatic. in the coming month, the european parliament is proposing a lot of own resources, but the only one that is technically ready, i repeat (1 200 pages of impact study), the only one that parliament supports and that more and more countries support - poland, belgium were hostile to it five years ago and now agree - is the financial transaction tax. my friends, humanity no longer has time for politics of small steps. climate scientists tell us that 2020 is much worse than they thought. the climate crisis is collapsing and the social crisis may lead to a democratic crisis. we don't know which countries will still be democratic in five or ten years if we continue like this. it's time to take strong initiatives. in may 1950, adenauer and schuman, to avoid war, took an historic initiative. schuman says: 'world peace cannot be preserved without creative efforts, in proportion to the dangers which threaten it. germany and france are therefore proposing a limited but decisive initiative to their neighbours. a limited but decisive initiative is to bring coal and steel together. we've been at war for decades, and in just two weeks, in two weeks, schuman and adenauer decided to put together coal and steel. adenauer said: "it was the best day of my life, i saw the sky open before me". friends, i think we have done a great job negotiating the current budget and it is urgent to complete it, to have new resources for the climate, health, employment. mrs merkel, you are a great european, it is time to take a limited but decisive initiative: europe was born with coal and steel, it can be reborn with a climate, health and employment project financed by a tax on speculation.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mother of all battles is now coming to an end and a new budgetary game is already being played, the first of this new framework, which we have strengthened since yesterday. much has already been said today, and i shall not go into detail about the additional reinforcements that are hoped for in this text. i will simply remind you that the commission - mr commissioner, you have reminded us - will amend its proposal on the basis of the agreement reached yesterday. and, of course, there will have to be adjustments. beyond the numbers, the important thing is the political message we will send: what are the priorities for the union in 2021? the union will continue to suffer from the effects of the pandemic. personally, i think we need a budget that focuses on recovery, smart, green, digital and solidarity-based recovery. it is this recovery that will bring us back to prosperity and protect the most vulnerable among us. so yes to putting the package on health and research and innovation. our economies will do better and our jobs will be multiplied. but where will the money come from? we have reduced vat, our customs duties have fallen because of the slowdown in our trade and, it must be said, because of the 5.5 billion we are leaving to the member states to do the job, to do the paperwork, to control the goods, a job that is undoubtedly overpaid. but it takes what it takes to buy the consent to europe from some heads of state and government. as a result, by 2021, we will still have to go around the states to adjust our finances. fortunately, dear friends, all this will soon be ancient history. our collective struggle to create new recipes has been decisive. they will be created, we will have a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders tomorrow, a tax on digital giants, a tax on financial transactions. peter is no longer here, but i invite him to work together to make sure this tax is paid. once these own resources are created, the union will be able to assume its responsibilities. this is the vision i carry, we carry and we will carry to the end. thank you, pierre, thank you, olivier, for all your hard work.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr larrouturou and mr chastel, for this draft budget for 2021. that said, it is the first to be part of a multiannual budget cycle which we discussed earlier this afternoon. the message i want to send is that there is an urgent need to do more than wait for the ecological transition. we know we have about ten years left to act and change things, so it's time to speed up. in this budget there are some very positive steps in this respect, with the 30% climate, 10% biodiversity, and also the idea, of course, of not using the remaining percentages of the budget to destroy what is being implemented with the climate and biodiversity criteria. this is one of the subjects on which we will have to continue to debate. i would also like to say that the 60% figure in this report is consistent with the 60% target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, and that it should be 65%, which is the spirit of the amendment i have tabled. also increase the budget of the parliament's environment directorate-general to push and work on the ecological transition. and then, in the logic of transparency, we talked about the budget that's going to be needed for the covid vaccine. an amendment was also proposed to ensure that there is transparency in these mega-contracts, which is very important. in conclusion, we therefore subscribe to this urgency to act. today's "later" will be tomorrow's "too late" if we do not act now. president biden's newly elected administration has a $2 trillion green transition plan. we are far from being in the right place and we must therefore be very careful about our own expenditure.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament from overseas, i wanted to speak today about the situation in the five french overseas departments through the general budget of the european union. i note that the european parliament continues to spend millions of euros every year on the construction of new buildings, and finances countries which call for a boycott of our french products, such as turkey or jordan, which is a penalty for our french farmers. i remind you that some of my compatriots overseas are still having great difficulty accessing drinking water in 2020, even today, within the european union! as regards the programme of specific options for remoteness and insularity, i.e. posei, i call on the european commission and the council not to reduce this programme, which currently amounts to eur 280 million per year for france. please note that posei maintains a balance between distance, insularity and the additional costs of an island. it enables us to finance major local and national agricultural policy projects, in order to guarantee food sovereignty for our islands and regions. as regards the european maritime and fisheries fund, the proposal to introduce a ceiling of 50% of the compensation plan for additional costs, to which france is also opposed, must be rejected, because otherwise there would be less direct aid for seamen fishing in the sea. it should also be borne in mind that the union's cohesion policy has a purpose: to reduce regional and social inequalities within the european union. it is time to take concrete action for our islands and french regions, to move towards greater administrative simplification, flexibility and accessibility for each european aid for our territories. today, the ecological turn that some are trying to make to the european union budget must be directed towards major policies for relocating and protecting sectors such as agriculture, fisheries and handicrafts. this budget must be directed towards defending traditional fishing and family farming, towards more protected geographical identification, but also towards more intelligent protectionism and fewer free trade agreements, which penalise our farmers. we know today that europe is already a very green, very clean continent with many innovative sectors. so why do we continue to put the wheels in the wheel of our farmers, our fishermen and all those who participate in our economy and who feed us? together, let us move towards a europe that serves the nations and territories that make up it, starting with the outermost regions, those distant territories that make europe shine... (the president withdrew)
in writing. the 2021 budget is of particular importance for the fisheries sector as it comes at a time of serious economic instability. the new emff will help the sector to align itself with the new eu objectives, in particular the green deal. this alone should have justified an increase in the 2021 budget. not only is the fishing industry in decline, but the sector is also facing a new crisis: the covid-19 crisis. the sector is still suffering from the consequences of the massive decline in demand for seafood across europe. the emff must be sufficiently endowed to support the sector and to cope with possible new demand shocks linked to the health crisis. we don't know how many waves will hit europe next year. we do not know how long restaurants will remain closed, substantially reducing demand for seafood and the outlets for our fishermen. this is why we, the european parliament, must defend the fisheries sector and in particular the emff allocations in order to give it a real fighting force for this particularly difficult year of 2021.
madam president, last night the european parliament gave its consent to the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the seychelles. the agreement lays down the rules governing access for eu fishing vessels to seychelles' waters in exchange for fishing rights for european tuna vessels. the european union provides seychelles with financial support of eur 5.3 million per year and technical support. from a financial point of view, the eu-seychelles agreement is the fifth largest eu fisheries agreement in force and the largest in the indian ocean. this agreement follows on from a previous agreement signed in 2007 and a previous protocol signed in 2013. the new agreement has many positive advances: it should improve fisheries control, the fight against iuu fishing, it will strengthen scientific cooperation and data collection. in terms of transparency, we are particularly pleased with the commitment of the government of seychelles to publish the fisheries agreements it signs with other states. one of the specific features of this report is that the fishing sector in seychelles, including small-scale fishing, also fishes tuna. in fact, european vessels are in direct competition with local fishermen. it is crucial that the fisheries sector is better heard and included in the negotiations. local fishermen, scientists and ngos have warned that fishing effort is too high in the region and that bluefin tuna is in a critical state. we regret that more vessels will be allowed to fish under the protocol. we also call on the european commission to exercise greater vigilance in the use of sectoral support. indeed, local fishermen and french journalists have shown that part of the money that was supposed to go to local fisheries was used to finance a multimillion-euro quay that is used solely for european industrial fishing. small-scale fishing is not allowed. we are reiterating these points in the report and i would ask my colleagues to give it their full support. this report will be voted on today.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to welcome this ambitious programme, towards a europe of health. as we face a pandemic of unprecedented scale, women carers are at the forefront in all european countries. we owe our salvation to them. but their commitment makes another reality even more unbearable: inequalities and disparities in access to care between women and men. action is therefore urgent. we need to advance knowledge of gender and sexuality and integrate it into the eu4health programme, in the areas of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and research. the specificities of each sex must also be taken into account in order to contribute to the information and education of the population and carers. madam commissioner, dear stella, it is not possible to talk about women's health without integrating sexual and reproductive health and sexuality education. these rights are the first condition for the emancipation of women. it is a matter of public health, but also a matter of dignity. yet, in europe and around the world, conservatives are still and always attacking women's bodies - the latest example in poland. in europe, can we accept tourism from lgbti people? can we accept that european women risk their lives by resorting to clandestine abortions? ladies and gentlemen, we must support the amendments on sexual and reproductive health. in the europe of values and the europe of health that we want, health and rights are inseparable for everyone.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, this health crisis has thus revealed the extraordinary fragility of the european union in terms of public health. i thank you, madam commissioner, dear stella, dear partner, as you say, for listening to us here in this house in april, july and september. thank you for listening to our calls for a stronger, more responsive and better coordinated europe of health. the first step is over. you lost your voice yesterday when you presented the programme for strengthening the european union in its preparedness for health crises. heads of government must now hear the citizens' call for a true europe of health and validate the tripling of the health budget - thanks to nicolae ştefănuţă and the committee on budgets for bringing it forward. we must promote overall health, ensuring that the health impact of all european policies is taken into account - employment, agriculture, transport, education, development. this holistic approach will help us to achieve our overarching objective of reducing health inequalities. in the negotiations with the council, we will defend our major thematic priorities: an ambitious plan against cancer, the prevention of chronic diseases, better consideration of rare diseases, the strengthening of the europe of medicine, but also environmental health, occupational health and sexual and reproductive health. we will also advocate for greater involvement of civil society and patient associations. we all hope for a strong mandate in the vote tomorrow, to prefigure the europe of health that we want to see developed in the context of the conference on the future of europe.
madam president, knowing too late, understanding too late, acting too late are probably the two words that best sum up the european union's attitude to the health crisis, to use macarthur's expression. as the tsunami approached and drastic containment measures were imposed, particularly in china, the european union initially merely reminded all states that they had the good sense to re-establish controls at national borders to protect themselves and slow down the spread of the virus, and to make tutus to wash their hands. but nothing about masks, nothing about test production, nothing about relocating our drug supply chains, to the point that this inertia has thrown many countries, like italy, into the arms of china. the text before us today is supposed to mark the birth of the europe of health. but this europe of health has been in existence for years, when it was a matter of taking states' portfolios by imposing drastic austerity measures, particularly in public services. on 63 occasions between 2011 and 2018, the european commission recommended to member states to reduce public health expenditure. spain itself, pushed by the european union, has reduced its health expenditure by 11% over the last decade. and today, with a certain cynicism, the commission is asking spain to invest in health, precisely to repair the structural problems revealed by the epidemic. the european union is biting its own tail by denouncing the evils it has caused. in italy, some €37 billion of health resources have been cut in recent decades. these cuts resulted in a 50% reduction in the number of hospital beds and the loss of 70,000 intensive care units. while public health as such must remain the exclusive competence of states, we are obviously in favour of cooperation between sovereign nations in the face of the pandemic, particularly in funding research projects, the sums to be released being obviously considerable. but for this cooperation to be effective, it must be organised in the most flexible way possible, between states, rather than under the aegis of a centralised and bureaucratic body. this is the whole point of a europe à la carte and the projects we are defending.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, recent announcements about effective vaccines are very promising, but we must remain cautious. above all, we will have to make educational efforts. you see, madam commissioner, in my country, france, the country of louis pasteur, there are currently two opposing currents, even within the same political party and even between meps from the same party. both these trends are wrong, because, as talleyrand, another frenchman, says, everything that is excessive is insignificant. the first group wants to make compulsory vaccination compulsory for the whole population. it's unrealistic and it's not the right way to do public health. we must start with strategies to identify the populations to be protected as a priority. you're proposing a list of these priority people. could it be agreed between member states to allow a coordinated approach? the second, radically opposite trend, close to the anti-vaccine lobby already cited by peter liese, systematically calls into question scientific advances and takes advantage of the situation of uncertainty to sow doubt about the reliability of vaccines. it's dangerous and unreasonable. we must act! how can we increase transparency on the terms of contracts with the pharmaceutical industry? will information campaigns be considered to combat fake news and build trust? commissioner, help us to convince our citizens and governments to rely on the european health union, whose foundation stone you laid yesterday. the citizens are watching and waiting for us.
in writing. no european country will be free to purchase the covid-19 vaccines that are being developed by numerous pharmaceutical companies. the member states will have to comply with the european commission's decision and will not be able to negotiate their acquisition separately. why is the central purchasing body established in brussels? this practice could break up healthy competition. will there be a diversified vaccine portfolio to deal with the coronavirus? accelerating the development, production and deployment of covid-19 vaccines may compromise safety. we hope that the european commission will not promote the use of any vaccine before all clinical trials have been successfully completed and its effectiveness in preventing both the contracting and the transmission of the disease has been demonstrated. we need a vaccine that we can trust and that can be one of the tools that helps us contain the pandemic.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to welcome vice—president dombrovskis back to the european parliament. paul tang and myself, as co-rapporteurs, are presenting to you today parliament’s report on the sustainable europe investment plan. this is the financing of the green deal: it’s an own-initiative report by parliament which should lay the framework for the financing of the green deal, because we believe much of the success of the green deal will depend on its financing. we have set ambitious objectives there, and we will only meet those objectives if we follow suit with appropriate financial resources. resources will be needed from the european level, from the national level and from the local level, and they will be needed from the private and from the public sector alike in order to meet these objectives. we started our work on this report immediately after the commission presented the green deal and the sustainable europe investment plan – that was at the beginning of this year. it was before the start of the pandemic, and we set ambitious objectives. the one thing which i want to say very clearly for parliament now is that we are sticking to the objectives of the green deal: combating climate change; polluting less; improving our energy efficiency. those need to be permanent tasks. they should not only be tasks that we are busy with when there is no other crisis. so we are committed to the objectives of the green deal, but obviously we need to see, together with the commission, how we ensure the financing in the new context. we set the objective to mobilise eur 1 trillion for the next 10 years before the pandemic, but we are seeing that the pandemic is affecting our economies, and it is affecting our enterprises, and we need to reach the objectives of the green deal together with our enterprises and with our economies, not against them. the first important question will be, how much financing can we mobilise and how much can the private sector do to reach these objectives? this is why the report which paul tang and myself are putting in front of you today raises an important element. will we reach, vice-president dombrovskis, the leverage effects that we were planning at the beginning of the year? we need to see if the objectives which we had for the next 10 years are reachable, and how. we need to see if the leverage effects which we were planning at the beginning of the year are realistic and we also need to see what the synergies between the resources that we mobilised after the pandemic and the objectives of the green deal will be. how will next generation eu, the recovery and resilience facility, contribute to these objectives? we, as the european parliament, are setting ambitious green objectives, including for the recovery and resilience facility. the commission rightly proposed 37% climate mainstreaming under the recovery and resilience facility. we, as the european parliament, are backing the commission in the 37%, but i am going one small step further and i am proposing 40%. the question is, do we count the resources from the recovery resilience facility under the sustainable europe investment plan or not? this is an important question that we need to clarify together. we also recognise the important role of the eu budget and the positive contribution towards reaching the objectives of the green deal which cohesion policy has, which research policy has, which agriculture policies have and which the just transition fund also has. with regard to the just transition fund, i would like to say that it is crucial that the just transition fund is sufficiently financed and that the climate transition takes into consideration the different levels of development and dependence on fossil fuels in different eu member states. obviously member states are deciding by themselves their own energy mixes. we are committed and member states are committed – they should be committed – to transitioning from the least clean sources of energy, but we need to see how the transition can take place from country to country. we, in our report, are also saying that the projects with the highest potential to reach our climate objectives should be financed as a priority and we also say that a level playing field should be guaranteed for eu companies. we are also aware of the importance of own resources, where the council, the commission and parliament have made together very good progress for a calendar for own resources in the next seven years. we see own resources as a source of revenue, but also as a tool to incentivise greening at the level of consumers and at the level of the private sector. we believe that private financing is very important as well because, as i said, financial needs are very big. the investment needs are between eur 250 and 400 billion per year. we, as the public sector, are doing our part, but we need a commitment from the private sector as well. and the role of the european investment bank is also important, as well as other financial institutions, such as such as the european bank for reconstruction and development. this being said, madam president, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur paul tang for the excellent work which we did together, himself on behalf of the economic and monetary affairs (econ) committee, myself on behalf of the budget committee, and all of our shadow rapporteurs, who really spent tens of hours in the negotiations with us. the report was adopted with a very large majority at the level of the committees. we’re looking forward to the final vote tomorrow in plenary, and then we’re looking forward to the cooperation with the european commission on the basis of what parliament will be saying in this report.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me remind you that one month ago this house took a giant step towards securing the future of our planet. the european parliament pledged to commit europe to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 60% and set in this way an example for the rest of the world. it was sometimes seen as impossible, and also in this house, but don’t call something impossible if you haven’t looked for the possibilities and this report – and i present together with siegfried mureşan – is about making possible. yes, much money is needed. i recently saw a calculation that economists say that we need an additional eur 300 billion each year to reach the goals of the paris agreement. at the same time, that’s only 3% of the amount of money that we are spending now on covid support by national governments. so let’s be honest, it can be done. indeed, what this report does is build a bridge between ambition and reality. our bridge has four arches and we need all of them to reach our aims. the four arches are the eu budget, the eu’s monetary and financial institutions, private investment and public spending. let me start with the eu budget. siegfried mureşan has already addressed part of it, including own resources, but let me add two things. first, don’t allow green washing. with the eu taxonomy, we obliged the financial sector to back any claims of sustainability. but what kind of government applies a set of rules to others and not to itself? that’s why we clearly state eu spending on sustainability must be taxonomy compliant. second, don’t shoot yourself in the foot. how can we spend money on fighting climate change if we subsidise fossil fuels at the same time? how can we spend money on social services if public money supports a company that dodges taxes and exploits employees. that is why all eu spending, including the next generation eu, including through the eib, should adhere to the important principle of do no significant harm. environmental and social progress need to go hand—in—hand. next up are the eu’s monetary and financial institutions. the eib and the ecb have billions to spend. let’s make sure that they spend it wisely – again, in line with the eu taxonomy and without harming people or the planet – to reach our aims of the paris agreement. in doing so, no stone should be left unturned. new green bonds should be issued by the eib, whereas the ecb needs to reform its corporate sector purchasing programme. as supervisor, the ecb needs to force banks to address climate—related risks that are still on the balance sheets of banks. the third arch concerns private investment. the report insists on the phasing—out of all investment in harmful activities. soon investment in new fossil fuel plants and unsustainable heavy industry will be history. the market is already moving in that direction, but sometimes a lack reliable data can hamper progress. we need good and publicly accessible data and for credit rating agencies to take these data into account. the last part of the bridge between ambition and reality is public spending. the national governments make the bulk of public spending and investments. the eu should stimulate them to do it sustainably, not hamper them. therefore, we call for new tools, such as a green bond standard, to make this easy. but governments also need revenue. tax avoidance cuts the ground under governments’ feet. we need to fight tax avoidance as concerns corporate profits and private wealth. other incomes should come from taxing polluters – the polluter pays principle. indeed, the energy tax directive is out of date. the excise duties have lost their effect due to inflation and they should be corrected. let’s face it, kerosene should eventually be taxed in line with other fossil fuels. with this report, the european parliament shows how it bridges the gap between ambition and reality, bringing a sustainable society closer and closer. my last remark is to thank siegfried mureşan, my co—rapporteur, for very close and fine cooperation. it is much appreciated. i would also like to thank very much the shadows because we have worked in difficult circumstances and we required a lot of your patience and efforts. you have always been very constructive, which siegfried and i appreciate very much.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr mureşan and mr tang, for their report. nearly ten months ago, the commission adopted the sustainable europe investment plan, which is an investment plan for the european green deal. on that day i presented the plan to this parliament. as i speak to you today, i’m struck by how much the world has changed since then. the eu fight against climate change and environmental degradation now takes place amid an unprecedented health and economic crisis of covid—19. the eu has taken immediate action to fight the pandemic, and we are sparing no effort to support the economy. but as your report also highlights, the climate change crisis has not disappeared. today, i assure you that the sustainable europe investment plan is as relevant as it was in january. in fact, it’s even more critical now as we support the economic recovery. our commitment to become the first climate—neutral continent by 2050 remains firm, and we have proposed more ambitious emissions cuts by 2030. we will need massive investment to reach those goals. through the sustainable europe investment plan, the eu set out how to generate at least one trillion euros of sustainable investments over the next decade. the commission welcomes the historic agreement between the european parliament and the council on the eu’s next long—term budget and next generation eu. it will also be fundamental for the green recovery, but public finance will not be enough. investor appetite for sustainable opportunities is on the rise. we will harness this demand by enabling frameworks, for example the eu taxonomy and eu green bond standard. i’m happy that european financial institutions are also stepping up to the mark. both the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development are increasing their ambitions in green finance and both are looking into using the eu taxonomy in their activities. international cooperation beyond eu borders is also needed to scale up sustainable finance. the eu’s key role in the international platform for sustainable finance is at the heart of this global response. honourable members, our massive recovery package is fully in line with the green deal. the commission also agrees with the parliament that leaving no one behind is now more important than ever. we look forward to working with the european parliament in translating these ambitions into relevant sectoral legislations. your efforts will be an important reference point as we push ahead with our plan to finance the green deal in a sustainable and fair manner.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, the covid-19 crisis we’re facing today has shown that the transport and logistics sector, as well as its workers, has proven to be the backbone of the ‘cure and stay-at-home’ economy. the uninterrupted freight transport of medical equipment and food has been essential for its functioning and the continued operation of supply chains during the pandemic. as rapporteur on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (tran), i stressed in our opinion that transport and tourism should be given an important role in the financing plans surrounding the green deal. so in that regard, i’m very glad to see that the report prepared by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the committee on budgets (budg) mentioned the important role of smes in the transport and also the tourism sector, and the call to revise the eib transport lending policy in order to open financial opportunities for sustainable and digital innovations. but to be honest, we have to do more. substantial support and close public—private cooperation is needed for the completion of the trans-european transport network. and on top of this, the sector needs support in a transition in order to comply with the goals of the green deal. and then you have to think of boosting the use of alternative fuels, including hydrogen, and the deployment also of the associated infrastructure. so it’s therefore important for all of us to keep this in mind during future discussions. together we should invest our way out of the crisis.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my fellow rapporteurs, mr mureşan and mr tang, for the excellent work they have done on this initiative. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture, i want to confirm that the agricultural sector will play an active part in achieving the objectives of the green deal. europe is the world leader in agriculture for quality, food safety, innovation and high environmental standards and italy, i like to recall, is first in europe for the number of products of certified quality. we certainly welcome the commission's proposal to allocate €7.5 billion to rural development under nextgenerationeu, but to address the challenges of the covid-19 emergency, businesses need more direct payments and sectoral programmes. if we want modern and competitive agriculture, which can combine the objectives of the green deal with the preservation of production levels, we must not reduce the amounts allocated to agriculture and rural development. the objectives of the from farm to fork and biodiversity strategies require new eu own resources. we cannot deprive farmers of part of the current cap resources and then ask them to commit themselves to a green transition.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not prepared to accept this. to achieve a comprehensive and successful ecological transformation and modernisation of the economy and society, and to succeed in the commission's priority of a green new deal, we need to promote synergies between the green new deal and eu programmes in the fields of education, volunteering and culture. erasmus+, the european solidarity corps and creative europe are important tools in the fight against climate change. they are essential for the transition to a green economy and a sustainable society, as they promote the necessary skills, such as environmental and climate change awareness, especially among young people, which need to be disseminated for a new socio-economic environment. this environment requires creative, inclusive and technologically innovative solutions to address environmental challenges. this is why there needs to be greater cooperation in the eu between education, environment and climate change.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as the european union have set ourselves an ambitious climate target, and this target will only be achievable if we also trigger investment accordingly. i think that's beyond dispute. the money for investment has to come from somewhere. i think that is also indisputable. and the report we are voting on today is therefore rightly entitled 'how do we finance the green deal?' i have therefore some difficulty in understanding why we are dealing only with the question of public funding. it cannot be that only the state, only the european union, only the public pots and their equipment are at the centre of the green deal. we have experience from the juncker fund. the juncker fund, the fund for strategic investments, was also the case, and the reason for the great need for investment was not that we used public money, but that we could use public money to invest private money. and that's what we should be focusing on together. how can we really achieve that together? i am quite frank about the fact that it was very difficult to get these ideas into the report in the first place, although the bulk of the investment will be spent in the end. the difference is made by the private sector. the lion's share of the investment is made by companies and households. they need reliable, clear boundary conditions and planning certainty. that is what we should be focusing on together and using the instruments to do so. then we'll get the green deal too.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, dear friends, two years ago, greta thunberg was starting a school strike, a climate strike. greta asked a simple question: what is the point of going to school if our leaders are not interested in our future, if they are not interested in the climate emergency? why learn science, if scientists are not listened to by our leaders? yes, it's time to listen to the scientists! this is the evolution of co2 in the atmosphere over the last 1,000 years. i think that's clear. and the number of climate disasters has more than doubled in 30 years. what are we waiting for? some people think that with the economic crisis, the co2 evolution is more favourable, but this is not true. forest fires in 2020 have never reached such a high proportion: 440 deaths in forest fires in australia, forest fires in siberia, forest fires in california... forest fires cause so much co2 that 2020 is going to be one of the worst years for co2 in the atmosphere. on 29 october, the un released an alarming report on biodiversity, which stated that unless we radically transform our lifestyles, pandemics like covid-19 will multiply and cause more deaths. friends, how can we avoid chaos? the report we are about to vote on, thanks to paul and siegfried, recalls that 600 billion investment is needed every year to insulate buildings, to make public transport, to develop renewable energies... 600 billion public and private. the report sets out concrete solutions to find these 600 billion and calls on heads of state to put them into place without delay. but this week, the budget negotiations were over. parliament won... two billion. that's very good, and we want to raise the climate from 20 to 30 percent of the general budget. if we can do that - cutting our budget, alas - that would be 15 billion more. fifteen billion is good, but it's not at all the 600 billion we're looking for. our report reminds us that we must find ways of subsidising (if we want everyone to insulate their homes, there must be subsidies) and that a small tax on speculation would bring in 57 billion a year. the report proposes to move forward in the framework of enhanced cooperation so as not to be stuck on unanimity. so i think there's something obscene when heads of state tell us that there's no money for climate, no money for health, no money for jobs, when the financial markets have never been this high. can't we tax speculation a little? just like greta asked the question two years ago: "why continue to do school if the leaders do not listen to us?" you know that i started my third week of hunger strike yesterday. it is time to tell politicians to listen to us, and i would like to address mrs merkel. in a month, there's the climate summit. mrs merkel wants an ambitious agreement at the climate council on 10 and 11 december, but many countries will block this agreement if there is no ambitious funding. mrs merkel, it is urgent for the climate and for health to relaunch the enhanced cooperation on the tax on speculation. we can do it in a couple of weeks.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner dombrovskis, the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the cornerstone of the green deal for europe, because it will finance the energy transition. with this green deal, we have set ambitious climate targets to become the first neutral continent by 2050. the question now is how to do it. we therefore call for a legally binding spending target of 30% for climate as soon as possible and 10% for biodiversity by 2026 in the eu budget. it is also a question of taxonomy and its respect. the report also stresses the need to create new own resources, to enable us to achieve a higher level of climate finance. so the carbon border adjustment mechanism will also allow us to fight against our carbon leakage, and to encourage our partners to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions. the recovery plan will of course play a major role in achieving our objectives. we are therefore calling for a 37% climate target to be applied to next generation eu spending. in short, we propose a transversal approach, involving public and private resources and all sectors. by combining all our strengths, we could reach €600 billion of climate investment per year and thus achieve our ambitions for a neutral, job-creating europe in line with the paris agreement. this report is the result of a collaborative effort with several committees, all of which have a key role to play: the environment, of course, but also agriculture, transport, culture and education. it is the result of a strong and shared will within our european parliament to lead europe towards a modern, competitive, job-creating and sober economy, in line with the expectations of our citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the debate about the investment plan on how to finance a green deal comes hand-in-hand, of course, with the situation of the pandemic that we are living through. we have been seeing the european institutions taking extraordinary measures, mobilising a lot of resources with the recovery fund. we have now an agreement with the mff, and all of this is very important that it is completely aligned with the objectives of the green deal. there are some issues in the report that i would like to stress today that are particularly important for us. to speed up the own-resources debate, as we agreed on the mff, but also to continue our fight against tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and also, commissioner, the enforcement of our anti-money laundering legislation, which is of extreme importance. but we also need to make sure that the companies that are benefiting from public support in these difficult times commit to strictly respect the objectives of the green deal, and also we need to make sure that the big technological companies that are benefiting from the situation that we are living through pay also their fair share to our society. in that context, i think that the report is a very useful tool in those debates that we are having. i would like to thank siegfried mureşan and paul tang and the rest of the shadow rapporteurs for excellent work in common. we as greens, together with other colleagues, have tabled additional amendments to the plenary to enrich the text, which i hope can have the support of our colleagues. one of them calls on the commission to disclose the exposure of eu funds to the eu taxonomy objectives and categories, and the other one – very important – will call on the member states to act against tax avoidance and also to put their public expenditure in line with the goals of the green deal. i hope we can have the support of the other members to those proposals and i would like to thank again the co—rapporteurs for their excellent work.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, when it comes to dealing with the social emergency and financing the ecological bifurcation, we are always told the same story: it is too expensive, our states cannot afford it. so i'm going to try to answer this simple question: who can afford to pay? are you going to tell me that the companies that are profiting from the crisis, and are also responsible for the environmental disaster, do not have the means? let's take, for instance, amazon, which is swimming in an ocean of happiness with a health crisis that tripled its profits in a single quarter, not to mention its ceo, jeff bezos, whose fortune exceeds 180 billion dollars. one might wonder, however, whether it could not be put to contribution. are you telling me that the speculators who make their money off the yo-yo fluctuations of stock prices have gone crazy and can't afford it? while we pay up to 20% vat when we go shopping, the sharks of finance pay 0.0%. so our proposal is simple: tax the profiteers of the crisis and financial transactions. you will no longer be able to tell us that we cannot afford to invest in renewable energy, clean transport, renovation of buildings. but the agreement reached on tuesday on the european budget refuses to take these common sense measures: no mention of a tax on the profiteers of the crisis, a hypothetical tax on financial transactions, reduced to a reasonable portion and sent back to the greek calendar. you see, to the question, "who can afford it?" it's pretty easy to answer, after all. but i'm asking another question. what are you going to tell your children? "sorry, we've sacrificed your future to please the lobbies and the multinationals"?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation, a duty, to combat climate change, to protect and defend biodiversity, and at the same time to promote sustainable growth, to defend territorial, economic and social cohesion and inclusion. for all this, and because we have a planet with limited resources, where we have to live well on it, it requires investment, but it also requires, and i stress this, the removal of administrative barriers. where's the energy union? my country produces wind energy which is not fully used because it cannot then enter the european market - there are no interconnections. where is digital union? where is a union where rail transport connects us all? it does not exist and it does not exist because we have a problem, let us be serious, in the council, which is little more than the sum of the 27 national egoisms. we need investment, but we also need to remove these barriers, without which we will remain dependent, for example, on russian supplies, when we could be energy independent. look what the council has done: it has removed the strategic investments window from investeu, when we needed this window and these investments more than ever. and then, the removal of the barriers "proudly alone" was never the solution.
madam president, we started this legislature a little over a year ago with very remarkable climate ambition. this parliament demanded from the commission, at the inauguration of ursula von der leyen, a clear commitment to the new green deal. but certainly some of us wondered how we were going to finance that ambition. we were aware that the union has a high legislative and regulatory power to reform, market by market, the legal rules to guide the european economy towards the objective of complying with the paris agreements, but we certainly lacked greater financial capacity in negotiations on the multiannual financial framework which were not very optimistic a year ago. the pandemic has had a tremendous impact, it's having an abysmal health and economic impact, but it has allowed for vehicles, it has allowed for the creation of a european investment instrument that is a necessary condition to meet the ambitions of the new green deal. this next generation eu instrument must help to solve the recession we are suffering in the short term, but it must also contribute to the economic modernisation of the european union and clearly orient it towards the objectives of the paris agreement. i believe that this report - i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs - is on the right track.
madam president, with the green deal for europe, the european union has set itself a new growth strategy with the ambition of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 and we must now give ourselves the means to achieve this goal. commissioner, this report is a sign of ambition and consistency on the part of the european parliament. the fight against climate change will only be possible if we create new budgetary capacities, i.e. new own resources, develop a favourable framework for mobilising sustainable private and public investment, i.e. our european taxonomy, and ensure that the climate imperative is transversal to the various european policies, i.e. the greening of the monetary and investment policies of the european central bank and the european investment bank. so, commissioner, this investment plan is a first step and i am particularly pleased that the taxonomy, which we have recently adopted, is at the heart of this report. it is a concrete tool that lays the foundation for a common classification that allows investors to clearly know which activities are considered environmentally sustainable. and this tool must now be our reference framework for all european public and private investment. our renew europe group will play its full role in implementing these measures. i would like to thank our rapporteurs, paul tang and siegfried mureşan, who have done a remarkable job in difficult circumstances to adopt this ambitious report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the green deal, nextgenerationeu, the long-term budget, the investment plan presented are all part of the same package. this is a package. it is not just an investment and a financing package, it is also a package for the future, and for us nextgenerationeu is the opening of a great window into the future. and ursula von der leyen has made it very clear: if you are mobilising so much money, if you have so much need for investment, if you are attracting so much new money, then the package must have an objective: to leave the young generation, their children and their grandchildren, a better, a greener, a more digital, a more democratic, a more social european union and, hopefully, the world. and that's what it's all about: making the purpose, and we're investing in the purpose, and the green deal is the heart of nextgenerationeu. and this is not a spending, it's an investment, and the investment is supposed to create more investment. that's our goal. this is the staged plan and we have to look at it as a whole. it's a program for ever closer union. it is a programme for the european union to take responsibility for the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is the second largest economy in the world, and yet it is still not equipped to do so. it's a sort of ligue 1 club that's equipped like an amateur club, a nice amateur club but an amateur club nonetheless. we still have no real budget, no real taxation, which means that we have to rely on the european central bank for every problem, and that means that for every ambitious project, we risk legitimately disappointing the europeans. europe to blame? it is rather the fault of the states which refuse to equip it properly and to provide it with the means. the strength of the report on the financing of the green deal for europe which is being proposed today is precisely that it will finally enable europe to achieve its environmental ambitions. it is a first step, albeit still imperfect, but it is an essential first step. we have done our job as members of parliament. it is now up to the states to pursue theirs and give us the means to meet environmental ambitions.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order under rule 39. in hong kong, four members of the legislative council have been disqualified from serving in their democratically elected positions by an order from beijing, which violates hong kong’s basic law. as a consequence, the remaining 15 legislators from the democratic camp have also resigned. the european parliament, in keeping with our resolutions on hong kong, should raise these issues with the chinese authorities. i call on you, mr president, to take this up. i believe sanctions are needed to respond. let me close by also highlighting the fate of the 12 hong kong youths that are languishing in detention in shenzhen and must be returned to hong kong, and by expressing solidarity with the opposition trio of joshua wong, agnes chow and ivan lam, who are threatened with jail for organising a peaceful protest last year.
let us now move on to the agenda. i should like to inform you that i have received two requests under rule 163 of the rules of procedure to apply the urgency procedure in order to add the following legislative documents for adoption during this part-session. the first concerns the union general export authorisation for the export of certain dual-use items from the union to the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland. the second concerns transitional provisions on value added tax for covid-19 vaccines and in vitro medical devices in response to the covid-19 pandemic. these requests will be voted on today in the first round of voting. the rules of procedure provide that only the authors of the petitions and a speaker opposing them, and the chairmen or rapporteurs of the committees responsible, may be heard. does anyone in the house wish to comment on one of the requests for urgent procedure? if there's no one, we move on. the council adopted two positions on: - cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states in the taking of evidence in civil and commercial matters, and - service in the member states of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. i would inform the house that no proposals to reject the council's positions have been tabled, nor have amendments been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the rules of procedure. the proposed acts are therefore deemed to be approved. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda: the second round of voting on tuesday and wednesday will be open from 8.00 to 9.15 p.m. finally, i should like to inform you that the votes are distributed in several rounds, taking into account the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes on separate and distinct parts. i would also remind you that this distribution may be subject to further changes. information on the distribution of votes in different rounds is available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. (the order of business is as follows)
the agenda includes the report by mr david cormand, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on 'towards a more sustainable single market for businesses and consumers' (2020/2021 ((ini)) (a9-0209/2020)).
the rapporteur. mr president, mr david, hello to all, we are debating an important own-initiative report today, since it concerns the question of the sustainable market in the european union. the european union is the world's largest market, and that is no small thing. and so as such, we have the power and the ability to prescribe a set of rules that not only preserve the planet, but also preserve sustainable jobs in our territories and protect consumers. the report i am about to present aims to review a number of rules, to propose a reflection so that we can move forward. it is fitting that this is being discussed in parliament because it is also on the commission's agenda and we have already had the opportunity to discuss it in the imco committee with commissioner reynders. we can therefore, as parliamentarians of the european union, begin to chart a course in relation to our own ambitions. the context is also that of the green deal. but how can we think of an ecological transition if we do not review the rules of the market? because, ladies and gentlemen, in reality our consumer society has become a consumer society, where resources are wasted and destroyed and where poor quality consumer products are produced, often from outside our borders, which make consumers, especially the most vulnerable, dependent on products which they are obliged to replace often, which is not very good for their wallets either. so how is this relationship organised? first, the issue of premature obsolescence must be addressed. this issue is about making consumer products last less than they might be expected to and so we propose that this premature obsolescence be added to the blacklist of unfair commercial practices. we also want to extend the legal guarantee. we know that manufacturers are able to produce, for example, washing machines that last ten years or more, but the legal guarantee is very limited. again, to protect consumers, we propose to extend this legal guarantee. we also want to add a wear counter, you know like car odometers, on a number of consumer products, put wear counters that allow to promote their second life, the fact of reselling them, and to inform consumers and consumers. we also want to separate the corrective updates that are necessary for digital goods from the evolutionary updates that too often accelerate the obsolescence of digital products. we want a right to repair for the objects which would allow us to have time to get access to spare parts at an acceptable price. all the studies we have done at european union level show that more than three quarters of european citizens want to repair more of their objects. this requires that spare parts are not too expensive and that the time to obtain them is as short as possible. and then we want clear and harmonised information on the sustainability of products, which is absolutely fundamental. we are therefore in favour of compulsory display, and this is the subject of an amendment which will be proposed to you. a mandatory display so that everyone can know the environmental quality of a product, because it has a known cost, that is the cost of purchase, but it also has a hidden cost, that is what this product really costs at the environmental level. we also want to limit the so-called green claims, which are misleading, to advertising. there must also be some form of ethics in advertising to avoid misleading consumers. finally, we want to promote sustainable products in public procurement, which in europe represents 16% of gdp. it is therefore essential to give a boost to durable products and high-quality objects, often produced by european producers, to make them public procurement criteria and give them more importance and prescriptive value. we also want to make data on product sustainability public and transparent. we want to see a digital passport of products on the market so that everyone can know the environmental quality of these products, and a sustainable digital index, because digital, which is often considered intangible, has very real consequences. here too, transparency is needed and consumers must be informed. finally, we want to strengthen the surveillance of the european market. it is not normal that, especially through online shopping, objects which do not comply with the standards we set should enter our territories. this is unacceptable and unfair competition with european producers. so we need a way to check. that, my friends, is the gist of this report. once again, our ambition is to protect european jobs, to protect the planet, with a more sustainable market, and above all to protect consumers so that they can be enlightened and not be considered as dairy cows in the economic model, as they are today all too often.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, i also thank mr cormand, the rapporteur on this dossier, for his excellent work and attention. however, while we are voting on a report supported by the greens to combat planned obsolescence and develop an ecosystem of repair and second-hand, these same greens have thrown away, thrown away, a beautiful nuclear power station. the fessenheim nuclear power station, which is a few kilometres from here, was not opened in the middle ages, but less than 50 years ago. the greens got her head and she shut down her last reactor in february 2020. what did they blame him for? his wear and tear? this argument was rejected by the nuclear safety authority, which classified it as the safest in europe. they blame her for her old age. the cost of this whim: between 4 and 5 billion euros and more than 2 000 employees at pôle emploi. and everybody is a loser. edf loses because the compensation paid to it is small if one considers that this plant could have been in operation until 2041 and that it was equipment that was damped and in perfect working order. the state budget has to pay 377 million euros to edf, so the taxpayer loses. in the midst of a crisis, we'd better use that money elsewhere. our foreign trade is losing out because we import coal and gas that we could have avoided burning in our power stations. the planet loses because we emit more co2, all for purely political and ideological reasons. this absurd situation is not going to end, since the multiannual energy law provides for the closure of 14 other nuclear reactors, while they are in working order and would have been more useful due to the increase in renewable energies, because the more renewable there is, the more we need regular electricity production that does not depend on weather conditions. to this stupid example we can add another: the desire to close the european parliament in strasbourg because it is considered obsolete and expensive. to govern is to plan and to plan is to design things before others. we cannot say that this is the virtue of the greens, but when we know that mep karima delli, chair of the european parliament's transport committee, confuses uranium and lithium in the case of electric batteries, nothing surprises us anymore. ecology has always been in the dna of the rassemblement national. we support this report because our vision of ecology is pragmatic, human and rooted in the past, and because we are against planned obsolescence, which leads to overconsumption and further reduces the purchasing power of our citizens. against food waste, against disposable products and for a circular economy with the repairability and recyclability of products within our territories. for example, the statutory two-year guarantee period is not suitable for all product categories with a longer estimated lifetime. the report suggests aligning the legal guarantee periods with the estimated lifetime of a good and guaranteeing a minimum period for the provision of spare parts. we are in favour of this. we also support sustainability and repairability labelling, which takes account of multiple criteria throughout the life cycle of products. this labelling should provide consumers with the useful and necessary information at the time of purchase. when apple cuts into our phones, when the printers with the chip block printing beyond a certain number of printed sheets, it's the consumer who's being misled. when decathlon makes a fortune off the backs of chinese or bangladeshi people who are paid 60 euros a month, the consumer must know. the greens' enthusiasm for repairability and sustainability must first be demonstrated here, i repeat, by defending the european parliament's seat in strasbourg and by ceasing to look for fallacious arguments to prevent us from coming here to alsace. we must stop the double talk, we must stop the work planned in brussels on the paul henri spaak building, worth €500 million, and, in accordance with the european treaty, we must return to work in strasbourg.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all live on the same planet. responsible consumption to save limited resources should be a consensus since we know that we have to change our production and consumption patterns. i would like to thank david cormand for his report, which was very ambitious when it was first written. even though the commission wants to deal with this subject, it is sad to see how certain groups have done everything possible to empty this report of its substance. finally, the doctrine of some colleagues is that we must put green in the market, but without changing the market. many european citizens have taken the measure of urgency and here in this parliament we must live up to it. we cannot afford to sprinkle green pact on the streets any more, because that would be the fashion. no, we must meet this challenge with consumers and businesses by supporting them and giving them perspectives through strong political signals. a sustainable single market is firstly common sense by allowing a mandatory label on products indicating, from their design to their end of life, their environmental and social impact. secondly, it is about informing the consumer and bringing transparency to the market and transparency creates trust. it is also common sense to allow the consumer to repair his product with spare parts available and at a reasonable cost. if tomorrow it costs more to fix your washing machine than to buy a new one with the health crises we know consumers will go that way. when we talk about purchasing power, let's talk about planned obsolescence. a plague. i want to think about batteries that fall apart after upgrades or printers. let's think about the consumers. do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that if we defend this practice, we are defending them properly? the great challenges we have to face are also those of saying that there must not be the market on the one hand and the consumer on the other. i want to remind you of this simple thing here: we are not asking producers to change the way they produce, we are asking for transparency about how they produce and an end to the most environmentally harmful practices. so it is not a question of opposing producers and consumers, they are the same. and all suffer from the race for social and environmental minimum standards that a market without limits wants to impose on us. in conclusion, i call on the commission in its new strategy to be vigilant first of all about targeted advertising for the most vulnerable, responsible consumption is not frivolous consumption. secondly, we must look at the textile industry, which pollutes in great numbers and destroys its products, playing on the effects of fashion, which we know to be immediate. i call on the commission to be vigilant about the end of life of products and not to accept the almost systematic destruction of unsold goods, because as lavoisier said, nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed. so let us try to stick as close as possible to this natural rule, for example by introducing a green rule which would be to not take more from the planet than it can replenish in a year.
madam president, commissioner reynders, i thank you for your report. there is little good news in these troubled times that we have to say when a sign of hope crosses our troubled skies. and the agenda we are discussing here is going in the right direction. it is moving in the right direction, but as always, words must be translated into action. i think the debate we have is an exciting debate. i thought i understood from some of the speeches that there would be a kind of opposition between the ecological question and the social question. in reality, it is the same subject: how to destroy the planet with poor quality products and to encourage consumption, especially of the most fragile products, of products with a short shelf life. it's a social issue and it's an ecological issue. so our job as legislators is to make rules, otherwise we're useless. rules which allow for this consideration of the ecological issue, but also rules which protect consumers and, in this respect, i would stress that, yes, there are vulnerable consumers, and the committee on which i sit is the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we have decided, in our wisdom, for years to provide for consumer protection because there was a reason for doing so. the whole point is to make the ecological question of safeguarding life on earth and the social question work hand in hand, all within an economic framework to which we must give meaning, because today this senseless economic model is annihilating, including the european economy, including european smes. and so i am pleading, commissioner, for optimum ambition in the report you are working on, on which we will work together, it is about the future of the economy of our continent, the future of the planet and also the protection of consumers, and especially the most vulnerable.
madam president, first of all, welcome, commissioner. it is a pleasure to have you here, now sitting in the commission area. i hope these months of work have been positive. the truth is that since the beginning of this crisis the commission has shown a high level of activism with legislative proposals for partial reform of previous regulations - the revision of the regulation on capital requirements, the recent revision in relation to securitisations, prospects - and i believe that the socialist group has tried to form part of or to form a majority in this house to allow these legislative proposals to be processed with the aim of facilitating the release of capital to support the productive economy and allow the banking sector, which had been in the focus of the previous crisis, now facing this crisis in principle with better capital ratios, to be able to help. we certainly have, with all the proposals, and in the debate today on the proposal for an investor protection directive we have mixed feelings. we believe that the commission's proposal was reasonably justified, but we also believe that the rapporteur of this house, markus ferber, has tried to widen the scope for liberalization, for revision, of the directive which the commission itself had made. and it has done so a few months before the commission itself presented the proposal for a comprehensive revision of the mifid, without the necessary technical support, without the impact reports that would allow for a wider debate in this house. markus complained that we had not had the opportunity to discuss this directive in committee, and that is true. but i would also like to share that this debate would have deserved more time from the european commission, with a more in-depth analysis of the impact, and that some of the proposals in this report should, very likely, be in the future review that you are going to prepare. in any case, i think my group has done its job, and i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr eero heinäluoma, in particular, because i think he has managed to steer the debate in the right direction. and it has led the way and allowed some of the rapporteur's proposals not to be finally in this text, which is why our group will support it, but we certainly believe that there has not been the necessary public debate on the reforms that are going to be adopted, bearing in mind that we are going to have a formal proposal for a thorough revision of the mifid next year. so we're going to the tripartite dialogues, we hope to have this proposal approved in the next few weeks, but in the review of mifid my group will be very demanding.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to extend a very warm welcome from berlin to our new commissioner for financial markets, mairead mcguinness. i look forward to another good cooperation. the debate here on the reform of our financial markets is taking place in a very difficult situation - in a situation of severe economic upheaval in europe, the extent of which is not yet clear. the gross domestic product fell by 8%. we have record aid programmes: 400 billion euros in germany alone; europe will put 750 billion euros into the project. many other countries are taking on additional debt to stabilize the economy during this time. at the same time, technology companies are making record profits, particularly in the area of internet services, while the real economic activities of smaller companies are suffering major losses. inequality and the concentration of economic power are increasing. in this situation, unfortunately, we still have no progress in taxing more heavily these global digitized activities in the market. the ecb has acted decisively: it has so far bought eur 600 billion in bonds, put eur 1 500 billion of favourable liquidity into the market, and at the same time reduced the capital requirements for the banking system by some eur 100 billion. in the summer alone, about 6% of bank loans were suspended, in some member states more than 10%. this means that we are entering a situation of severe economic dislocation, with a situation of low capital of the banks still only about about 5% of the balance sheet. in conclusion, there is a threat of a new banking crisis and we must ask hard questions about the resolution of banks in difficulty. in this situation, we are discussing mini-reforms of the financial market that will not solve any of these major problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, yet another quick fix, yet another emergency plan and, in fact, not a week goes by without us having to decide on one of those famous emergency plans. we would like it to be about social issues, about economic issues, but not always, it's about banking and financial issues. so honestly what is the urgency today to relaunch securitisation, what is the urgency today to ease prudential rules or transparency issues? none and in fact, as we all know, today we have a front of the banking lobby, which works hand in hand with certain states that come to deregulate, unravel everything that can be done with this new element of language. if banks were the cause of the crisis in 2008, they are now the solution to the crisis. honestly, how would our economy suffer from safer banking regulation? i'm not worried. it is time to protect europeans more than the banks, it is also time to start dealing with the real issues, that is, the issue of climate change and to see how we adapt the micro and macro prudential rules to an event, that of climate change, which will be much worse than the covid crisis.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, a company that spies on everything: its workers, its trade union representatives, its critics, the smallest facts and gestures, the people it is associated with, the messages exchanged on social networks and the most intimate private life. this is not from george orwell's 1984; it happens every day today at amazon. we already knew that amazon was destroying the environment, attacking social rights and evading taxes. we now know from a large-scale investigation published by the american newspaper vice that amazon is directly using a spy company to monitor everyone who challenges its power, from trade unionists to greenpeace and greta thunberg to the yellow vests in france. everything is systematically recorded, assessed and classified according to five levels of risk, from moderate to critical. the mere fact that two cgt trade unionists distributed leaflets in front of a warehouse on 10 march 2020 is reported. with one purpose: to intimidate, dissuade, suppress, to stifle any dissent from the empire. an amazon empire whose profits have tripled since the beginning of the year to the benefit of its boss, jeff bezos, who swims in an ocean of unparalleled wealth of almost 200 billion dollars. so the recognition today, through collective redress, of the right of consumers to join forces to obtain redress is a first victory, which we welcome. however, the european union is not just a market and citizens are not just consumers. the amazon example shows that there is an urgent need to extend citizens' shields beyond the consumer sphere to establish a genuine duty of vigilance for businesses and to protect fundamental rights, workers' rights and the environment. indeed, the whole of society could sue amazon: the workers they exploit, the associations they spy on, the small businesses they destroy and the public services they dry up by tax evasion. this intervention may be worth, and certainly will be worth, a report from the spies working for amazon, but let the message be: millions of citizens are also watching you and holding you accountable.
mr president, the report examining the situation, the problems and the challenges facing the implementation of the european mandate to respect fundamental rights was adopted by the committee i have the honour of chairing, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, last week by a majority of 34 votes to 23. these 34 votes included the votes of the socialists, the greens, the liberals and the united left from which the rapporteur comes and she had the votes against the popular party, ecr and id, which are the most conservative groups in this house. i therefore join the progressive and pro-european majority, which expresses its concern about the situation of equal rights, the rights of migrants, the rule of law, prison rights and the mandate to enforce the european convention on human rights, in voting in favour. but something has been said in this debate which i must refute. rule 55 (2) of the rules of procedure of this house states that if the explanatory statement has not been agreed by the majority which adopted the resolution and is also inconsistent with the content of the resolution, the president may cancel it. but above all, it must cancel it if the rapporteurs who worked on this resolution, who add up the majority votes in the committee on civil liberties, ask it to do so. so that's the assumption. there are things said in this resolution which are not consistent with the explanatory statement and the explanatory statement includes a reference to a situation which is not only politically controversial but which can be refuted with political arguments, but the legal argument is that article 55 (2) requires the ... (the president withdraws the speaker).
i would like to thank mr lópez aguilar. i would remind you that you must register for oral questions on the rules of procedure one hour in advance and that we do not have a blue card or a catch-the-eye procedure. i'm sorry about that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, this parliament, called upon to give its opinion on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, is taking a stand in defence of minorities, lgbti people, the right to asylum, migrants, in short, all visible minorities who are pampered by the system. on the other hand, too little, too little, about the right of a child to grow up in safety and dignity and to be able to reach adulthood in a normal way. i would remind you that our society has a duty to protect our children and i would particularly like to draw your attention to the sharp increase in sexual crimes against children. this parliament, in the name of defending fundamental rights, must set itself clear objectives on the protection of our children. first, by setting a european age of sexual consent which will lead to a de facto single definition of rape of a minor in the member states. currently, depending on the country, this age of consent varies from 14 to 18 years, so there is a need for harmonisation of the age of consent. secondly, the european union must speak out against the correction of cases of rape of minors. in france, as in many member states, several acts of paedophilia against minors, which are crimes, are reclassified as criminal offences under the heading of sexual assault, allowing the victim's consent to be invoked. under no circumstances can a child under 15 years of age be considered as consenting. finally, as with a terrorist file, a european file on sexual offenders and perpetrators of violence against children should be created, so that european police forces can cooperate better. i therefore urge you, colleagues, to follow these recommendations to ensure the well-being and future of our children.
mr president, in times of crisis, our governments have always and almost always sought to reduce rights and freedoms in order to concentrate power in their own hands, under the pretext of efficiency. it is to forget that democracy and citizen engagement are powerful tools for dealing with difficulties. these deprivation of rights and freedoms affect the most vulnerable among us first, because our societies are highly unequal and social protections are inadequate. minorities, especially the roma, migrants and the poor, have suffered greatly from disease, increased poverty, discrimination and still widespread exclusion. women have suffered from increased economic and social violence, but also physical and moral violence in their own homes, because our societies still privilege the patriarchal model and male oppression is still widely considered legitimate. children have sometimes been deprived of school, have sometimes been abused, but there are still significant differences between those who have access to a garden, a corner of nature, access to knowledge, to culture, and those who are locked up, prevented from going out, in tiny, stifling spaces, in families lacking everything. our children have not experienced the same health crisis.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you pascal durand for this very good report. i wanted to tell you about my little cousin clotilde, who's 16. she's been at every climate rally for a year and every family dinner, and you can't stop her when she starts trying to convince the whole family of the ecological emergency. clotilde has a very strong opinion about society, but when it is election day, she is not allowed to speak at the polls. i also wanted to talk to you about lorenzo, who's 16. he's italian, you know. he has the right to open his own clothing store, he even has the right to be the owner of a restaurant. but voting is niente, forbidden at his age. i wanted to talk to you about tobias, 16. he's german. he can buy beer, he can go out to the disco with his 16-year-old friends, but he can't vote. let me also tell you about carmen, who is 16 years old. she's spanish. she works 40 hours a week and she's allowed to marry. but she doesn't have the right to vote, either. clotilde, lorenzo, tobias, carmen and then the majority of european 16-year-olds are involved. they are committed to the climate, to equality between women and men, but they do not have the right to participate in democracy, they do not have the right to elect the representatives who will decide how life should be organized in the society in which they live. you know, before women had the right to vote, before those under 21 had the right to vote, they were told, they were told, to justify their exclusion from political life, that their too low mental maturity could not allow them to take an intelligent part in the conduct of public affairs. it sounds old-fashioned to you when we say that, yet it is the same arguments we hear here about the right to vote at 16. so i would like to ask those who oppose the idea of voting rights at the age of 16, are you not afraid that you will find a chamber transformed by the arrival at the polls, by the arrival at the polling stations of clotilde, lorenzo, tobias, carmen and all the others? i believe, on the contrary, that it is high time to restore the generational balance by rejuvenating the electoral body to bring the political weight of young people into line with their weight in society.
in writing. during this year, we have experienced many unexpected and unforeseen situations that have tested our ability to react quickly and effectively. we need to make sure that our values are reinforced, not distorted. this means that we, as representatives of the member states, must uphold the interests of each member state and its people. the report, which assessed the mechanism for the future elections to the european parliament, proposes the introduction of international voting lists. this report wrongly sees the term 'harmonisation' as a reduction in the diversity of member states. ladies and gentlemen, this report is contrary to the purpose of our work. our main task here is to represent our member states and their citizens. we are here to find the best solutions and to ensure that the principle of representation in the european parliament exists. i strongly oppose the report because it proposes a system in which the citizens of the european union cannot trust the leaders of the parties or the members of parliament. this threatens to create a system that no longer works in the interests of the member states or their citizens, in particular the smaller member states. i call on my colleagues in parliament to be aware of this danger - if we follow this report, our basic principle of unity will be lost.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the review of the eu's trade policy by mr bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000070/2020 b9-0024/2020) (2020/2761 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is now clear that trade policy is shaping the future. trade policy, among many other policies, is a tangible way of shaping the future. i think we have seen very clearly in recent times how much these options have been called into question in trade policy. we have seen many national measures taken that are totally contrary to international rules, national reflexes, unilateral measures. we've seen that in the coronavirus pandemic, supply chains have been shocked, disrupted, and have had economic and political consequences. we have seen more and more people ask: who is benefiting from this trade policy? is globalization really in our interest or in the interest of a few? so the values of the european union are also called into question in trade policy. so our question is: how can we shape future trade policy to meet these challenges? we have discussed this very intensively in the trade committee and have also put forward some points which are intended to provide the commission with a broad guide for the revision of the trade policy strategy. i would also say that this is not a wish list for santa, although we are now close to christmas, but this is already a strategic option with two lines. one line is more the proactive line, and the other line is more the defensive line, the defense line. these two lines are found in many places. let me just make four points. i believe we must act proactively within the wto to supplement the wto's regulatory framework, to supplement the issue of state enterprises, to supplement the issue of intellectual property protection. but above all, we need to get the sdgs, the un sustainable development goals, into the wto so that trade policy can also serve the implementation of sustainability strategies on a global scale. i hope that we can work very closely with the united states, with the biden administration and with mr kerry as climate commissioner. perhaps this could also be a starting point for closer cooperation in the multilateral system, so that we can again set the rules more firmly in order to move forward. secondly, i think we need to have a clear focus on the issue of supply chains. we're seeing that supply chains are very sensitive, that they're just not robust enough to absorb shocks. but we also see that supply chains are unfair, that risk is passed on to the last ones in the chain. so i think it is right - and this is also in the proposal - to introduce a binding european supply chain law that provides for a duty of care for companies operating in the european single market - risk-based, so that we don't see this cut and go, but a clear strategy to improve situations in the supply chain, the situation of workers' rights, environmental standards. and that's why we're fighting. we also need to strengthen the implementation of the green deal in trade policy. so the question of green goods initiatives within the wto, but also bilaterally. we need a sensible system of border balancing. and fourth, we also need to focus on better implementation and enforcement of trade agreements. we must defend ourselves here, i think, if there are elements that attack us, if there are coercive measures by third countries. so we hope that next year we will have a reasonable instrument. but we must also establish a clear enforcement of the agreements. we have had an agreement with central america since 2013. in guatemala, workers' rights are still not being implemented and human rights violations continue. we have had an agreement with korea for five years on the enforcement of workers' rights. there is a need to do something here, so it is right and good to put implementation and enforcement first. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. last time it was "trade for all". maybe this time we can say "people first".
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would first like to thank parliament for this resolution. we will consider it very carefully in our reflections on a new strategic direction for trade policy. let me start with recalling the objectives of the trade policy review. european trade policy is operating in an increasingly difficult environment, marked by growing tensions among major global economies, the rise of unilateralism and economic nationalism, the weaponisation of trade policy for other objectives and a weakening of the rules-based multilateral order. in addition, there are growing and legitimate expectations that trade policy must contribute to the political goals of this commission, in particular the green and digital transitions. finally, the covid-19 crisis is having a devastating impact on our economies and societies, and all eu policies must contribute to sustainable recovery, including trade. the trade policy review will build a new consensus around a fresh medium-term direction for eu trade policy, responding to these global challenges and taking into account the lessons learned from covid-19. as part of this exercise we launched a broad public consultation which ended earlier this month. we received more than 400 strong contributions from our key stakeholders, addressing all the themes included in parliament’s resolution. these included: the need to create more sustainable and resilient value chains; the need to sustain rules-based trade and reform of the rules-based multilateral order; the need for trade policy to contribute to the digital and green transitions, through better integration of our internal and external policies; the need to strengthen the eu’s regulatory impact and to maximise the contribution to the economic recovery, especially for smes; and also, the need to manage and develop our key global trade relationships; and the need to further strengthen the implementation and enforcement aspect of our trade agreements, including on sustainable development commitments. all these themes, and many others, will be developed in the communication we plan to adopt in the first quarter of 2021. this communication will outline the direction of eu trade policy for the coming years. the guiding concept is open strategic autonomy: a unique european approach to ensure that we remain open for business and trade, while at the same time becoming more assertive in defending and enforcing our interests, rights and values. this will include a limited number of concrete policy initiatives to translate the direction of trade policy into practice. of course, this parliament will be closely involved at all stages of this process. we will work together to ensure the highest levels of transparency and communication with stakeholders and the public. we will publish up-to-date information in easy-to-understand language and engage actively with civil society organisations, business and labour associations and citizens both directly and via social media tools. trade policy impacts the lives of all europeans and our transparency and communication efforts must reflect this fact.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is no secret that international trade has taken a battering during this pandemic. the latest forecast from the wto now speaks of 9.2% drop in volume of world merchandise trade for this year. but at the same time, the extreme resilience of trade links has surprised everyone, with a forecasted rebound of 7.2% in 2021. surely now is not the time for business as usual, and my group welcomes the commission’s frontloading of the trade policy review in the wake of the pandemic. for us open strategic autonomy must mean a trade policy, firstly, that doesn’t try to repair what isn’t broken. our new strategy should not make us retreat behind walls of protectionism or paint pictures of glorious self-sufficiency. decisions on supply chains must always remain in the hands of economic operators. secondly, it should address the structural weaknesses that were laid bare by the pandemic, such as the lack of diversification in the supply chains, for example when it comes to personal protective equipment during the first wave of the health crisis, and this has as well being highlighted by our chairman, bernd lange. therefore, i call for a strategic diversification fund to be set up to help our companies to be less dependent on one single supplier. furthermore, the conditions for trade to serve as catalyst for the recovery, must be created, for example by continuing to expand our network of ftas to help to diversify supply chains but as well export destinations. we also need a strong focus on smes. they were the first hit by liquidity crunch under pandemic and they will be key to recovery and jobs, for example by initiatives such as the access2markets tool that has as well being asked by the parliament. finally, consistency and coherence in all policies and on all levels, hence the new proposals such as the china task force, that will help us sing from the same hymn sheet in our relations with china at all levels. this is of utmost importance. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this trade policy review comes in challenging times. the covid pandemic most probably shall focus on a serious economic and social crisis, maybe the most severe one of this generation. trade can, and should, play a vital role in the recovery but, at the same time, it needs to be reshaped fundamentally to address the challenges of today and those of the future. a deep and forward-looking reform is necessary. let me set out the priorities of my political group. let me start first with the connection between domestic policy and trade policy, which has been referred to by you, commissioner, and by our chair. we need it to be both consistent and ambitious. the green deal needs to be integral, integrated in trade policy, but also in trade deals. we cannot set high standards for our own production and, at the same time, import products that are produced in an unsustainable manner, ignoring the paris agreement, or that contribute to deforestation. second, very important for our political group and something that we’ve urged for over many years, the enforceability of the tsd chapter. it needs to be strengthened. we need to move forward on the enforceability of labour rights and environmental standards, and that includes sanctions: no enforceability without clear sanctions. on the us, let’s start to work with the new biden administration to tackle the strategic challenges and build a positive agenda on trade. rejoining the paris agreement is absolutely the first step in strengthening multilateralism. when it comes to china, we do support the negotiations on the comprehensive agreement on investment but, at the same time, let us be extremely clear. full respect for human rights is needed and products produced in forced labour camps should be banned from eu markets. we call on the commission to start preparing the negotiations with taiwan. the last, but not the least, point is that we urge the commission to include a chapter dedicated to gender in all free trade agreements. let me conclude. commissioner, we count on you to take this trade policy review seriously and to reform eu trade policy so thoroughly that we can see that the green deal is an integral part of it.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the trade policy review provides us with a rare opportunity to build back a better trade policy that endeavours to ensure that the benefits of trade are evenly distributed and distributed sustainably. over the last five years we have seen the stable and predictable environment necessary for international trade to flourish continuously undermined. the pandemic has highlighted our vulnerabilities and as we search for ways to recover from the economic shock, resilience should be at the core of the next stage of development of eu trade policy. in the current political context it would be easy to lean towards protectionism and indeed we have seen this deeply concerning trend reflected in the debate around trade lately. the phrase open strategic autonomy allows us to balance on the one hand our support for an open global trading economy, while on the other hand charting our own european strategic path. i would like to underline that my political group remains firmly committed to open and rules-based trade. we cannot and should not separate open from strategic autonomy. my second point is about smes. global markets are a crucial source of growth for smes. however, they often struggle to access the benefits of preferential trade agreements. there is huge untapped potential there, and one of the priorities of our new trade policy should be to address this. in particular we should focus on specific digital trade provisions in future trade agreements to benefit smes and services trade generally. finally, mr president, our trade policy has the potential to contribute significantly to the advancement of our strategic objectives around the green transition and indeed the digital transition. however, is not enough for us to quietly mainstream these objectives, our trade policy should not just contribute to their advancement, but also be seen to contribute to their advancement. i would like to acknowledge the hard work of colleagues on the trade committee and their staff and my own staff in preparing this resolution and i recommend it to the parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not commissioner dombrovskis, you have the opportunity today to assure us that you have recognised the signs of the times to reorient the european union's external trade strategy. what the pandemic reminds us of is the most important thing: life. our trade policy must be geared to preserving, enabling and improving lives, not just european lives at the expense of others. one third of the world's population still lives in extreme poverty and daily hunger, while a small part of humanity is getting better, and getting better. trade policy has - i want to emphasize this - a lot to do with our production and our consumption. the green deal must not be a greenwash of old-fashioned logic and economic dogma. we must now initiate the ecological and social transformation. this requires a paradigm shift, also and especially in trade strategy. the success of this commission will no longer be measured by growth in the eu. all un states committed to achieving the 17 sustainable development goals by 2030. this includes overcoming hunger and poverty and protecting the climate. we'll be measured by how far we've come in 2024. success can only be achieved through international, multilateral and common-rule cooperation with china, the usa, russia, india, the african union, asean and latin america. let us work together to put the wto in this new position!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all know that several million jobs in the european union depend on our being able to produce our goods and services in europe, to provide them, but to sell them elsewhere in the world - cars, machinery and much more. our companies also rely on cheap suppliers to be competitive in global markets. so again, we need market access, not just to sell our own stuff, but we also need to be able to buy the suppliers' products freely, if possible. thirdly, the global open markets of recent years have created a huge range of choice for our consumers, and i think very few of us today realize how much of the choice would be missing in our shops if there were no global trade. but, as many speakers have already said, global trade also needs a clear framework. we need political, legally binding guidelines on the rules by which trade takes place. but it's important to me that we're open about it. when we talk about strategic autonomy, for example, or when we talk about new rules, such as border compensation levies and so on, we must always be clear: we do this to set rules, but we do not do this to close our markets, to make life difficult for businesses, for consumers, but we do this because we are convinced that open markets need rules, we want to shape the market as politicians. and it is very, very important to me that when we talk about strategic autonomy, we talk about open strategic autonomy. we should always be aware that strategic autonomy has its limits. when i read that the world's largest manufacturer of surgical gloves is now having to close many of its factories, i can say again: let's produce these things in europe! but then we come back to raw materials which cannot be produced in europe, and that is why a little more intelligence is involved than simply recovering production. we must, please, cover this subject in a comprehensive and thorough manner in the coming weeks.
mr president, commissioner, thank you to the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs for their work. in a world of trade tensions, the european union must defend its values and interests more than ever, and this requires building our strategic autonomy so that the union can take its destiny into its own hands. three key words for our trade policy. the first is efficiency. to defend our interests, europe must make reciprocity our compass, use its defence instruments and take the lead in multilateral negotiations. the second is credibility. europe must strengthen its legal arsenal in order to play on equal terms with states that care little about the rules. the regulation on the application and enforcement of international trade rules is a first step. the new instrument to counter coercive measures is more necessary than ever. and the third is ambition. the fight against unfair competition, whether social, fiscal or environmental, must be our priority. those who want access to our market must respect our rules and standards, it is a matter of fairness and consumer protection. we are aware of the criticisms about the binding nature of the chapter on sustainable development, our agreements certainly concern a reference to the paris agreements, but we must rethink, along the lines of the franco-dutch initiative, the respect by our partners of our commitments. commissioner, it is time to consider a gradual approach in the event of non-compliance with these provisions, going as far as sanctions as a last resort. this is how we will help to restore our citizens' confidence in our trade policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is finally beginning to question its way of doing business with the rest of the world. it was time to start this exercise of heightening the profile in an attempt to heal the source of a deep-rooted evil, which unfortunately feeds a creeping euroscepticism. today, the agricultural world to which i belong does not understand that we can ask for all these extra efforts and, at the same time, that we intend to continue to open the floodgates to products that do not meet our production standards and even less the ambitions we set ourselves, with the green pact in response to the expectations of our citizens. i ask you today with a certain firmness, because farmers and citizens no longer understand. through this review, will europe finally commit itself to offering a little more fairness and consideration to the women and men who feed us? it's as if the mandates for trade negotiations and our domestic policies are written by people who never speak to each other. will europe finally be able to make a coherent link between its agricultural and environmental agenda and the demands it places on its partners in the rest of the world? will europe finally have the courage to safeguard its agricultural and food heritage by refusing to use it as a currency? i believe in it, i believe in our ability to reinvent ourselves.
madam president, during his visit to cyprus on 15 november last, the turkish president clearly took a hostile stance, but now it is a recurring one. on this issue, as on all others where the hand of the islamist erdoğan is laid, we make a mistake by not calling history. this is not intellectual coquetry, but the only way to understand erdogan's attitude and thus to counter him. first of all, it is a question of demography and the ottomans already understood this. it was a policy of turkish settlement that allowed the military occupation of the north of the island in 1974 and which still justifies it today. cyprus has become the fixed aircraft carrier for erdogan's ambitions in the eastern mediterranean. the pseudo-republic of the north, which only it recognises, allows it to challenge international maritime law and flout the sovereignty of an eu member state. thanks to the splendid inaction of the european states, ankara has even paid for the luxury of redrawing the map of the maritime zones at its own discretion with the government in tripoli. erdogan's turkey sees the world and history with a long-sighted eye, we look at it with a microscope and you are so lax, still unable, after so many provocations, to take the necessary sanctions measures. i would like to conclude by recalling that as we speak, in the southern caucasus, armenians are experiencing the bitter experience of erdoğan's manoeuvres and his conquest of religious and ethnic influences, converting basilicas into mosques, in the most guilty silence in europe.
in writing. today's debate concerns the escalation of tensions in varosia following turkey's illegal actions and the need to reopen talks as a matter of urgencybetween the republic of cyprus (an eu member state) and the northern part of the island, which has been occupied by the turkish army since 1974, the self-proclaimed turkish republic of northern cyprus (trnc). this is a real-fake debate! because the european union does not have the courage to discuss the real issue at stake: the turkish military occupation of the northern part of cyprus, in total violation of cypriot sovereignty and international law. on sunday 15 november, turkish president recep tayyip erdoğan, when he visited varosia (an abandoned district of the cypriot town of famagusta) to celebrate 37 years of turkish military occupation, gave a new demonstration of the arrogance and aggressiveness of his international policy. the european union must stop giving in to the wishes of sultan erdoğan! we must stop funding it with tens of billions of euros from european taxpayers (and especially french, since france is a net contributor) and stop the unlikely eu accession process immediately.
madam president, mr high representative, this agreement is a double victory for israel. first, because it strengthens its international relations, but also because it enshrines the trump plan and its will to bury ever more the possibility of a viable palestinian state. let's face it, the mention of stopping colonization in this agreement is only there to allow the uae to present a victory to its silenced people. colonization is by no means a matter of fact. if the nations sign with israel, it is because they have chosen the strong against the weak, the strong against the just. this has never been the european union's choice in this conflict and i hope it never will be. it is up to us europeans to continue to choose the right, the fight against illegal occupation, against annexations, against political imprisonment, for a just and lasting peace. it is up to us to play our part and stop allowing the solutions we defend to be flouted. it is up to us to bring about a process of peace based on the law that has and must continue to make our dna.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, on 2 november 2013, ghislaine dupont and claude verlon, two french journalists reporting from northern mali, were kidnapped and murdered by jihadists. seven years later, neither the killers nor the perpetrators have been brought to justice. on 16 october 2017, daphne caruana galizia, a maltese blogger, was the victim of a bomb attack while investigating corruption. the trial of its alleged sponsor has not yet taken place. on 25 february 2018, slovak journalist ján kuciak was shot dead along with his partner, while investigating possible embezzlement of european funds by the mafia. the two shooters were convicted by the slovak courts, but no one behind bars is currently in custody. it would take me much longer than two minutes to cite the 800 journalists who have been killed in the last 10 years simply for trying to inform the public and for exposing the truth. according to reporters without borders, whose work i would like to commend here, in 2019 alone, 49 journalists were killed around the world. in nine out of ten cases, these murders go unpunished. each time, it's not just a human life that's been taken, each time it's a voice that's been silenced, a testimony that's been hushed up, a truth that's been buried. in december 2013, the un general assembly paid tribute to ghislaine dupont and claude verlon and designated november 2, the date of their deaths, as the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists, calling on states to bring to justice perpetrators of crimes against journalists and media workers and to ensure that victims have appropriate remedies. commissioner, much more needs to be done to ensure that this resolution does not remain a dead letter. we must do everything we can to prevent the death of more claude verlons and more ghislaines dupont.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, december will be almost five months after the famous july council, where the heads of state and government reached an agreement which was widely publicized by the media and the european institutions as a great success of the community method and a great success of the european union. yet, five months after that date, we are almost back to square one. time has been lost, there are responsibilities, and as you know and as we are taught, time is money, time has a financial value, doing things sooner is better than doing things later. today we are being accused of two countries which have a veto, and rightly so, because we cannot talk about rules which apply only to one side and not consider that this veto power is a legitimate power. so those who demand respect for the rule of law, because it is a fundamental point, a fundamental pillar of the treaties, must also respect the powers and the means of exercising them, which are granted to countries by the treaties and our rules. as always, when there is a conflict situation, there are two sides to the conflict, and it cannot be one side that is responsible. let me play on words: i wonder who is surprised today by this veto. we knew, and it was clear as early as july, that if we had gone ahead with a mechanism we could call the rule of law - but anyone who has read that regulation knows and cannot help but deny that that regulation is not about the rule of law - poland and hungary would have vetoed it, and the majority of these institutions have decided, knowingly, to go ahead and to provoke this veto. so there is clear responsibility for the delays on both sides and in this parliament, in the majority of this parliament which has decided to go ahead with a political and punitive mechanism which, i repeat, has nothing to do with respect for the rule of law, causing the veto of these two countries. i am also surprised at the so-called europeans who are now calling for an intergovernmental agreement to overcome this impasse. i am surprised that they are the ones who wanted to go ahead with the recovery fund, the recovery plan, with the community method, which has shown today all its limits, which has shown today what europe really is. it is not a united continent, it is a continent made up of nations which, legitimately, also have different and conflicting interests. then whose fault is it? who is responsible? i think the greatest responsibility today lies with those who continue to use the rules in a political way to punish those who do not align themselves with a certain unified thought. we must take this into account, because the method we are using does not work and we cannot expect a dictatorship of the majority, as some would like. rules are good when they go in the desired direction, rules must be changed if a minority goes against what is the will of the majority. we must then decide what kind of democracy we want and we must finally decide to understand what the mistakes and the limits of this european union are. the mistakes of wanting rules that are supposed to help us in a time of need and when we find ourselves in a time of need we have to suspend those rules. we suspended the fiscal rules, the stability and growth pact; we have temporarily suspended the state aid rules. the ecb is forcing its mandate. so this is where we have to think, ask ourselves whether this european union, the methods we are using, are really compatible with what the european union is today, that is to say an intergovernmental agreement between member states which are legitimately different. so maybe it's better to focus on a few things and do them well, rather than pursue a project that is now anti-historical and that citizens and governments don't want.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, agreeing on the recovery fund was a truly big achievement of the heads of state and government back in july. it did need a lot of pushing from the european parliament and not everything is ideal in that package, but this is still an unprecedented common effort to help citizens in an unprecedented crisis. it was - and is - a big step forward in european history. but now this big success is at risk because two governments only care about their own power and about staying in power because that’s, in the end, what the veto by the hungarian and polish governments is all about. like trump, who is killing corona support in the us, orbán is doing the same in europe. blocking the recovery fund will be felt and shouldered by hungarian and polish citizens just as much as by any other europeans. what a cynical disregard of the needs of one’s own citizens. and let’s not forget that there is no binary choice to be made. the recovery fund is essential to overcome this crisis, the mff is essential to set the eu on the path to a green deal transformation, and equally, the rule of law framework is essential to ensure these eu funds serve the needs and best interests of european citizens. dear hungarian and polish friends, your governments are gambling with your future. the european union is founded on values such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law and this parliament will never stop defending those values. for too long, many governments may not have been happy with straying away from democracy in some member states, but they have never truly spoken out. that time is over. at this summit, it is time for everyone to take a stance. decisions are also needed at this summit to ensure that the eu takes serious climate action. at the last summit, any decision on the 2030 climate targets was postponed. now governments must act. the european parliament has delivered an ambitious target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by the year 2030, and the governments must now follow suit to allow for swift and decisive climate action. i also want to stress that we need to have an honest emission reduction target, not one with creative calculations and loopholes that might create pretty numbers on paper, but would fail in real life. the task is to preserve a liveable planet in all of its biodiversity and the measures must live up to this target. with an extraordinary year coming to an end, we’re also running out of time to find any agreement with the uk. while we’re immensely sad that the uk will be leaving us, it is also clear that we cannot just simply agree to anything that comes up at the last minute. this parliament needs time for scrutiny and for debating any possible agreement. as the verts/ale group, we will not just sign off any deal. we will look very closely at whether this is an agreement that is of mutual benefit, that safeguards social and environmental standards and that does not endanger peace in northern ireland. we will not hesitate to defend those rights and standards for the benefit of european citizens, but also, we believe, for the benefit of british citizens, now and in the future if the uk decides to rejoin.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the eu budget does not meet the expectations of europeans, nor does it meet the needs of the coronavirus crisis. the member states have agreed to a historic low in contributions and are pouring heavily into the rebate fund. the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. and the rule of law mechanism has also been weakened and is far behind what parliament originally called for. but that now precisely because of this weak rule of law mechanism the autocrats in the eu are holding the community hostage and blocking the corona reconstruction with their veto is politically completely unacceptable. the orbán and kaczyński families can only do this because their activities have been ignored in recent years and they have been protected by the conservatives - including in this house - in the first place, out of a calculation of power. the epp still refuses to exclude - and i quote a somewhat more farsighted conservative - the 'little dictator' orbán. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. on brexit: it remains a question of substance whether the left can agree to a deal. we need a robust level playing field to prevent a ruinous dumping competition in the social field, environmental standards and consumer protection standards. boris johnson must finally show a willingness to compromise or there will be no deal. the peace process in northern ireland must not be jeopardised and that is why the uk's single market act, which is in breach of the withdrawal agreement and the good friday agreement, must be withdrawn. my group is prepared to allow a special session of parliament to avoid a hard economic brexit at the end of the year. however, we are firmly opposed, mrs von der leyen, to the provisional entry into force of a possible agreement without a thorough democratic review by parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in europe in february/march, when the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit, was frightening. we have seen borders closed, we have seen member states put forward national approaches, and many people in europe felt that the partners in the other european member states were failing them. but you, madam president, we in parliament and the member states have taken advantage of the summer. we've managed to get the borders reopened and now they're staying open in the second wave. we have negotiated a sustainable budget for the next seven years and have put together a multi-billion rescue package. if the member states now put this money to good use for research, for investments in the future and for new jobs, then europe and, above all, the people who live here have a very good future, and i hope that the member states will really do their homework now on the use of the funds. we have seen that european researchers with european funding are also at the forefront of the fight against vaccines and modern technologies. the commission, under your leadership, mrs von der leyen, you have managed to get us to conclude contracts with the vaccine manufacturers for all europeans. the producers did not come up with the idea and did not come up with the temptation to pit the people of the member states against each other, but you and your commission negotiated, bought and concluded for everyone. we want this europe capable of action, and you are the reason for this, and we are very grateful for it. the second point i would like to make is that we in the council should be really ambitious in proposing to the united states a new package of transatlantic cooperation. we have to take this opportunity that we're getting now. after the low point in the transatlantic relationship over the last four years, i really hope that all the people of europe have understood that we must reposition ourselves together with the united states to better meet the new global political challenges.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the most dramatic historical moment of our generation. a health emergency that has upended our lives and taken our loved ones, that is bringing the foundations of our economy to its knees and that we still don't see the end of. in the face of all this, europe has responded by providing an investment plan that was unimaginable until recently, thanks to the work of the european parliament and the commission, but also thanks to the fundamental agreement of that european council last july, which we all, all of us, looked upon as a turning point. the citizens of europe have come to trust us again, after years in which europe was perceived as being far away from their needs. the council, right now, at the height of the second wave, cannot go and tell those who have looked at us again with hope that perhaps we have been joking, that we will not lend a hand to those who have lost their jobs, to businesses that are closing their doors, because there is a rule that two heads of government do not fit. this rule simply says that europe is not an atm but a community of destiny, that we exist in europe because we share the same values and, above all, that public authorities must act within the limits set by law, in accordance with democratic principles and fundamental rights. the next council meeting on 10 december will have a key task: the european union's budget is being vetoed, the result of a long process of negotiations, and the ratification process of the national parliaments is being blocked on the historic increase in the ceilings and own resources of the european union, and thus the start of the whole next generation eu plan. parliament has done its part and will not accept backtracking. we therefore ask the council not to squander the credibility which the institutions have regained. they don't have to take responsibility for a failure. the fate of europe and the fate of the european citizens, including the hungarian and polish citizens, is at stake.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last may the libération newspaper carried the headline: europe is in the money with its 750 billion euros displayed in large letters. and you, madam president, are on that one that has been around france, i can guarantee you that. last july, the heads of state agreed on this stimulus plan with the multiannual budget, not without difficulty. and finally, two weeks ago, the final agreement with the meps fell through. it was not easy, but we did it. and yet today, despite all the goodwill in the world displayed by each of us here, it is blocked. it is blocked because one particular state has decided to take the hope of 450 million europeans hostage. and what do the states do? last week, the european summit. we talked about it for 17 minutes. we are told that we will have a clarification, perhaps at the summit on 10 december. but i can't believe it! europe cannot continue to be governed intermittently by crossing our fingers while a great leader finally decides to give up his veto! our europe, ladies and gentlemen, and the people of europe deserve better. they deserve the agreement that was negotiated with more resources for the tasks that fall to it, with its own resources and of course with preserved values. madam president, parliament will not back down. no, not this time, and i regret that there are no ministers in this house today who can hear it. this recovery must enable our continent to rise again, it must enable europeans to stand on their feet. so, no, blackmail is not acceptable in our democracies. no, unanimity is no longer acceptable in europe, don't be upset, mr zanni. i say, there's an emergency in the states. find a solution that respects our agreement. since it is europe and the europeans who are coming out on top, we will support you.
mr president, the dogmatism of a majority of the european parliament has borne fruit: the european budget and the recovery plan are blocked. you wanted to make them subject to the so-called rule of law? well, you have the result. the commission was too happy to have an opportunity to extend its powers and took up the idea in order to punish the recalcitrant nations. it's definitely become an obsession. brussels bears full responsibility for this political crisis, but would obviously like to blame warsaw and budapest. i would like to commend poland and hungary for their steadfastness and courage in rejecting this scandalous clause, which we know very well would lead to permanent blackmail and which is obviously not a new general rule but a deliberate and targeted persecution of two member states. let us be clear: it is simply unacceptable to make access to the funds to which these countries are entitled dependent on the dictates and whims of brussels. yes, the peoples of europe have the right to refuse the flood of migration which is intended, i quote, to replace the ageing populations, as commissioner johansson also wished last week. yes, the peoples of europe have the right to reject the demands of communitarianism and progressivism which deconstructs everything or the deleterious influence of globalist liberals who see only financial interests against the real economy. yes, the people of europe have the right to reject foreign interference, that of political islam or the networks of george soros. yes, the peoples of europe, through their elected and often re-elected governments, have the right to establish the political and judicial institutions which they consider best suited to safeguard their interests. that's what i call the rule of law. hungary and poland are right to defend their sovereignty, to uphold the right of peoples not only to decide for themselves but also to remain for themselves. instead of being a simple hierarchy of legal norms, the rule of law is in your mouth an increasingly broad and vague concept, extending to areas where states are sovereign, such as justice, health, education or the family. you're the one who's flouting the rule of law. you have no right to dictate to nations and peoples how they should live. the demands of the european institutions violate the very spirit of the european treaties, you have gone from a currency 'united in diversity' to a 'centralised one in uniformity'. the issue is nothing less than the establishment of a government of judges against the will of the people. poland and hungary must hold out.
madam president, in the coming days the european council has a golden opportunity to show that it is working for the european interest and with a vision for the future. they can show it in at least two ways. first, resist a reverse polish and hungarian governments’ blackmailing with the budget. by blocking the biggest mobilisation of eu funds ever, these two governments are preventing funds and investments from reaching citizens and economists in urgent need of support. warsaw and budapest want full access to eu funding while avoiding any scrutiny on the way they deal with the rule of law. this veto is unacceptable and irresponsible. so it is for the council to find a way out of this situation without giving up oversight of our fundamental values. and second, approve a more ambitious emissions reduction target for 2030. raising the carbon emissions cut to 60%, or even better to 65%, will show to the eu citizens and the rest of the world that we are living up to our commitments on climate neutrality, and it’s time to fill the climate law with concrete and more ambitious plans - no public money for fossil fuels by 2025, an ambitious budget to fight climate change, an independent scientific climate council to guide decisions on the latest science. the parliament has made its choices, now it’s time for the eu leaders to be up to the challenges and to really show the lead in overcoming the climate crisis.
madam president, i would like to thank you. violence is spreading in the community. i see it especially in my own country, sweden. robbery, beatings, even people being subjected to sheer torture. in sweden we have a socialist-led government that has completely lost control of the escalating violence. we have a prime minister who says time and again that the situation is unacceptable. he has now repeated this throughout his time as prime minister without succeeding in getting any strong measures in place. we even have, to our amazement, a newly built police station outside stockholm, where the police officers stationed there must have police cards on their way to or from work. the situation is horrifying to say the least. we have a minister of justice who wants newly trained police officers, which is a good thing. at the same time, however, a survey by the police federation revealed that 42 percent of current police officers are seeking new jobs because of their vulnerable situation. that's four out of five cops. why, then, is this the case? of course, one problem is the governments we have in our own homeland, both current and past, which have failed completely in their tasks. but the eu also has its role in the whole, with its completely failed and irresponsible migration policy, which has led to far too much immigration, not least in sweden, germany and several other countries. it has resulted in a direct exclusion of people who are no longer part of society. the eu and national governments, i mean, have a social contract with their employers, and that is the taxpayers. it is to deliver a safe, secure society to live in, and that is where we have failed from the political side. the violence must be fought back by any means necessary. we must do our part from the eu and governments must do theirs. it is time to go from words to action and to fight back with all the power at our disposal.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the european union must not turn a blind eye to the growing challenges in the aegean, in the varangians of cyprus, in the eastern mediterranean, in libya. the time has come for the words of solidarity with greece and cyprus to be put into practice. we've had enough of words. the summit on 10 december must finally take decisions, adopt a package of sanctions against the erdoğan regime. for months, mr. erdoğan has been denying the opportunities you gave him, pretending and provoking. a few days before each summit he appears as a lamb and after the summit he behaves like a wolf. the european union is not naive. only if erdoğan is pressed substantially will he respect international law and sit at the table of dialogue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament will not back down one iota on the agreement it has signed. you should honor your signature. every day of delay caused by mr orbán and mr kaczyński means more recession, more unemployment, more insecurity for all the peoples of europe, including hungary and poland.
madam president, this european council will mark the transition from the pandemic to the post-pandemic european union. the pandemic is not yet over, but this european council and the decisions that we will make together in the upcoming weeks will determine what the european union will look like and how the european union will act in the years to come. i want a european union in which we are together, united in solidarity and based on our values. these are the principles which i want for the relation with one of our closest neighbours, the united kingdom. these are the principles which i want when we spend money. we are now about to spend more money than the european union has ever spent in its history, eur 1.8 trillion, and the more we spend, the more we need to make sure that money reaches the people in need. the eu budget is money from the people for the people and we, and all of those who manage eu money, have a special responsibility to make sure that eu values are respected. spending money in the interest of the people means spending it well, but it also means to decide fast. parliament and council have made several agreements and in a democracy, once something is agreed you have to adopt, vote and then implement it. this is why i call upon the european council and upon the council of ministers, to vote and adopt what we have agreed – budget, own resources, recovery package and the rule of law. it’s in the interest of all of us, given that the union is based on the freedom of people to move, the freedom of companies to move, that the rule of law is respected in every single corner of the european union. as soon as the budget will be sent to us for a vote, we will vote on it. we expect the council to do the same. in conclusion, a word about one of the countries in our immediate neighbourhood. madam president, dear colleagues, in the republic of moldova, a country that we have a direct border with, a pro-european, pro-reform candidate attached to european values and to the rule of law, has won an election against the incumbent, pro-russian, pro-kremlin president. this is good news for us, for europe. this is why i call upon us to work closely with this immediate neighbouring country of the european union. it’s in their interests, but it’s also in the fundamental interest of us.
madam president, the december european council has a long to-do list before the end of the year and carry-overs are not an option. 2021 will be the year in which we can finally return to normality, but only vaccines will not be enough for the eu to regain what we lost, and while our thoughts go to the victims, their families and the efforts of our health care workers, we need the recovery fund, and an eu budget well in in place fast. the council must address firmly the irresponsible actions of prime minister orbán and his friends from slovenia and poland without any concessions or delay. we also expect the council to conduct a thorough review of eu-turkey relations and identify concrete responses, and also authoritarianism at home and ever-increasing aggression in our immediate neighbourhood cannot go unchecked. it is also time for bulgaria’s epp leadership, which claims to be one of the greatest advocates of enlargement, to return to its senses and give north macedonia its well deserved green light for negotiations. and finally brexit. it is clear that we urgently need white smoke, but let me reiterate once again that the parliament will not move its red lines to ratify just any last-minute deal. whether we find an agreement is now up to uk prime minister johnson, and as parliament, we will continue to stand ready and constructive, but we will not be shy on our democratic role and prerogatives.
president. - poland and hungary are blocking the so-called recovery fund. i can understand that. the eu is using the rule of law as a weapon against both countries, as a kind of blackmail. they only get money if they comply with what the eu tells them. there is something wrong in every country, ladies and gentlemen, including poland and hungary. but in almost all member states, and in the eu itself, judges are appointed politically. france saw violence against the yellow vests. never heard of the rule of law here. there was no debate. in the netherlands there is a surcharge. many citizens were wrongfully persecuted. speaking of rule of law ... but we'll take hungary and poland! these countries are now experiencing the rule of law as a kind of breach of the european union's new doctrine, as a brake on regime change, because that is the real agenda. the incumbent conservative governments must go. but that is for the voters to decide, not the eu. the eu is becoming a debt union with the debt generation eu. the dutch youth will be grateful to poland and hungary if they prevent this.
madam president, madam commissioner, in an unprecedented crisis, we need an unprecedented response and we are facing a deadlock that does nothing to help the european project or those who are suffering from the crisis. we are in a stalemate which is the result of the successive lack of courage for a joint response in the european union. we are now witnessing a european union, a european project caught between the blackmail of the so-called 'freemen' and the blackmail of the aggressors to the rule of law and democracy. give and take has gotten us here, and my question is, how long? how long? what will be left of the european project? if we do not have a firm response of solidarity, if we continue to accept the blackmail of those who do not want the european solidarity project, if we accept the blackmail of those who want the rule of law to be just a flower in the lapel, what will be left of the european project? we need to respond to this crisis and we need to respond in a way that is in line with what the concrete needs of the people who are suffering are. we have started this project and the president of the commission has presented this proposal as being free of conditionality. we have come to the end of this project with complete conditionality, without even the environmental objectives to be met and, on top of that, with this shameful blackmail. we need resources, we need to stop the blackmail, because we need to continue to make the european project survive.
madam president, the deadlines that the european union is giving turkey to change its attitude are part of a systematic move within the framework of the strong strategic relations between the two sides, which are not cancelled out by the sanctions debate. this situation reinforces turkish claims to the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, setting the stage for the co-operation promoted by the united states, nato and the european union in the region. so, from the challenges of oruç reis, we arrived at the unacceptable opening of sandbox. no confidence in the european union and its bargaining with its strategic partner, turkey, whose aggression is justified by the state department in its report. the powers that have waged wars against the peoples of syria, libya and iraq cannot be transformed into defenders of peace and security for the peoples. the greek government's involvement in such projects is only a risk. the solution lies in mutually beneficial relations, the exploitation of natural resources in accordance with the needs of the people, the liberation of greece from the imperialist alliances.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, intensive negotiations between the united kingdom and the european union have been taking place during the last weeks. we have heard this morning that both teams are working tirelessly, day and night, as well as over the weekends, to finally reach an agreement. in many fields indeed, texts have now been finalised. however, as the commission president pointed out, the three major stumbling blocks related to the level playing field, to governance and fisheries remain, due to the british position. there are only 36 days left until the united kingdom will have left the customs union and the single market, yet there is still no agreement and there’s still no text available. i want to point out that we cannot simply wait until the very last minute to agree on a text, since we as a parliament have to scrutinise the final text, in the same way as we have been scrutinising the entire negotiation process. the united kingdom will remain a close partner and ally of the european union. for this reason we should use all our efforts to set the ground for fruitful cooperation beyond the end of the transition period. this will, colleagues, indeed require a certain degree of flexibility, creativity and pragmatism concerning our parliamentary procedures. but to be very clear, we as the european parliament will have the last word. to give our consent we need to receive the text as soon as possible. nobody should underestimate the risks that a late submission entails for the orderly start of our new eu—uk relations. michel barnier and his team are making the most of every opportunity to reach a deal in the interests of the european union. on behalf of us all in the european parliament, let me wish michel barnier good luck for the coming days, which certainly will be decisive. (applause)
madam president, first of all, i don’t want to intervene on brexit. i think that we are in injury time, like we say in football, in these negotiations, but i’m still optimistic, mr mcallister, because i do not think that this is like football. footballers are tired in injury time, but politicians are not. i think that politicians are at their best in injury time. i am still optimistic, because it’s in the interests of both to have this agreement. on the rule of law, i want to simply echo what luis garicano and my colleague, valerie hayer, have said here in the debate. ms szydło, and mr zanni – sorry they are no longer here – can read the treaty. the rule of law is not a question of subsidiarity, because that’s what they in fact are saying, that it’s a question of sovereignty. freedom of expression, freedom of gathering, democracy, that is not a question of subsidiarity. respect for the lgbt community in your country, that’s not a question of subsidiarity. that’s a value of the european union, and that’s the reason we have to stick to the compromise we have found, even when i personally don’t think – and i’m grateful for the tenacity of ms merkel in still trying to find an agreement with poland and hungary – that there is a lot of room for compromise, because already in the text today you need to prove a link between the breach of the rule of law and the accounts of the european union before the european commission can act. so, if there is room for making it better, it’s to strengthen the system, not to weaken the system. if it is not possible – i repeat – there is only one way forward, which is enhanced cooperation inside the treaty, based on article 226 of the treaty, like we did with the euro, like we did with schengen and like we did with the european patent. that is far better than to cave in to the blackmail of orbán and kaczyński. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first point concerns the situation in relations between the european union and turkey. you know that accession negotiations have been under way since 2005. and instead of making progress here, turkey is going in the wrong direction. you all know the debate about the human rights situation, the lack of rule of law, the lack of democracy. you all know the debate about the treatment of minorities, the key word being kurds. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. furthermore, do not forget that turkey, if it were a member of the european union, would be an islamic country, and therefore the european union would also sail under the islamic flag, with a country that has the most inhabitants - a fundamentally wrong development. my approach would therefore be to say something clear and to bring this accession process to an end, instead of continuing these negotiations and giving hundreds of millions of euros and preparatory aid. the second point which is also very important to me and which may well be the subject of a debate at the council meeting is terrorism. we had a terrible attack in austria at the beginning of november by an islamist terrorist, which left four dead and more than 20 seriously injured.
madam president, the council will meet after ten months of an unprecedented health crisis. the risk is twofold: social dislocation and the ecological crisis being forgotten. yet the crisis we are going through is systemic, it is ecological. destroying nature makes us vulnerable. everything has to change: the way we distribute wealth, produce, consume. by putting climate in the background, we are fuelling the very evils that are now driving us backwards in terms of public freedoms and social justice. mrs von der leyen, you have to be patient, we cannot negotiate with the climate. five years after the paris agreement, the french council of state has just reiterated, following the dutch supreme court, that climate action is a must. in view of our historical responsibility, the current delays in achieving the climate target of at least 55%, or even 60% as we are calling for by 2030, are miserable. let us stop waiting and finally adopt the political objectives that will enable us to keep our planet alive, to preserve the rights of everyone and our democracies.
madam president, how many hours and how many days have we been working on this recovery plan in this house, when our governments have already presented their own recovery plans, when we are in the second wave of the pandemic, when some member states are already thinking about a second recovery plan? we have some difficulty in explaining to our fellow citizens that the council and parliament have still not signed the agreement we negotiated. i would just like to remind our colleagues of a few points which have been criticised, not only by the method and the manner but also by the institutional framework in which this agreement was reached. in april, in this very house, an agreement was reached between our political groups. in july, the heads of state or government reached agreement after a unanimous council meeting. and then, on the basis of that agreement, our colleagues worked for hours, days, nights, to find an institutional agreement. and for the last 15 days we have had an agreement: this is european democracy. and i hear the criticisms about democracy and the process, but this is european democracy. and we must remind him here and emphasize that we cannot be taken in by the extreme right of this house. this process is, from a democratic point of view, absolutely unquestionable. today we are worried because i can see clearly the attempt to ridicule the seven months of work that have passed between us, between political groups, between representatives of the european people. i would just like to say in conclusion, madam president, that i would have liked to have seen the council representative here, as would my colleague gonzález pons. i understand that the german permanent representative has a lot of negotiations, but at least one representative. what values are being placed on parliament today? and in this configuration, we will certainly have to go to 25, perhaps to 26, i hope, but in any case, we know very well that unanimity is not the only way. it is the work of all these months that is under discussion, european democracy has done its work and so i would like to say to the council today that it will have to take up its responsibilities in the coming days.
madam president, apart from the health crisis on the agenda of the next european council, the news reminds us every day that europe is going through another crisis, which you sometimes seem to forget exists, i am of course talking about the security crisis. in recent weeks, islamist terrorism has struck europe once again in full force. he struck in paris, he struck in nice, he struck in vienna and the terrorists did not come from here. they entered the continent without difficulty and then crossed the borders between european countries without hindrance, which were supposed to be reinforced in the midst of the covid-19 pandemic. in its 25 years of existence, the schengen area has shown its helplessness in the face of every crisis we have experienced. europe has been unable to stem the 2016 migrant crisis: the schengen system has placed the burden of controlling migration flows on the countries of entry to the eu, already hit hard by an economic crisis. the schengen system has not protected us from the crisis of terrorism. it has also failed to protect us from the health crisis, while in other parts of the world, from asia to new zealand, it was the countries that closed their borders early on that were the most resilient to the epidemic. today, europe is continuing its flight forward. the european commission is proposing a pact on migration that will endanger the continent's demographic stability and meps are calling for the immediate return to open schengen borders amid the covid-19 pandemic. in the face of this ideological stubbornness, the european heads of state must now decide whether to suspend the schengen agreements. the crises we have experienced in recent weeks remind us of a millennial lesson: borders are the best tools people have to protect themselves, so let's protect them.
madam president, at the next european council, the fight against terrorism will be on the agenda. the day before, the commission will have presented a new european agenda against terrorism. i would like to say to you, the commission, the members of the council, and also to all of us in the european parliament that we must collectively do more and do better. ursula von der leyen, i ask you to no longer hesitate to name the perpetrators of the barbaric terrorist acts that strike us with tragic regularity. these are islamist jihadists who are attacking us, not for what we do, but for what we are: an area of freedom, tolerance, respect for everyone, an enlightened europe that will always put knowledge above belief, reason above obscurantism. i would ask the members of the council, whose absence from this house today i regret, to get out of their narrow nationalist reflexes, which are the exact opposite of what is needed for cooperation in the fight against terrorism. we must give europol a stronger mandate and more resources. we need a european counter-terrorism prosecutor. the european databases we have or are setting up must be better informed and better able to communicate with one another. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the terrorists, the radicalised islamists or the arms dealers. i ask all of us, the commission, the council and parliament, to take responsibility for the rapid adoption of the regulation on the removal of terrorist content online and for our unwavering commitment to combating hateful content on the internet. social networks were meant to be a great space for freedom, but they have sometimes become a terrible reservoir of hatred and incitement to violence. we owe it to the victims of terrorism, their families and all europeans to act responsibly against terrorism.
madam president, the council has put the fight against terrorism and violent extremism on the agenda for the next session. but, madam president of the commission, we will never have the courage to fight the enemy who is attacking us if we do not even have the courage to name him. professor samuel paty, the faithful of notre dame de nice, the recent victims of the vienna bombing were not victims of an anonymous wave of extremism, but of a clear ideology: islamism. and it is not superfluous to name things, it is the condition for finally being able to act effectively because, to put an end to terrorism, we will obviously have to improve our cooperation in the field of security and justice, but we must finally accept to wage an ideological fight. islamism attacks what europe has too often failed to defend: our civilization, our principles, a certain way of living, deliberating and transmitting. in short, all the police forces in europe, despite their dedication, will not prevent violence from striking if we have not done anything upstream to fight the influence of this ideology, especially among the youngest. does the commission really want to be reduced to sending condolences, bomb after bomb? so it is no use to be indignant in vain against violent extremism, we must begin by no longer being accomplices of this ideology, by ceasing to finance associations inspired by the muslim brotherhood which, with european funds, spread hatred which will cause more innocent victims tomorrow, by ceasing to subsidize islamist leaders, like erdoğan, when he is still recently attacking cyprus, by ceasing to turn a blind eye - and i turn to you, dear colleagues, in this parliament which says it is so committed to the rule of law - to the fact that in many of our neighbouring countries the lead hat of a fundamentalist islam has replaced the authority of our democracies. we must stop denying migration, so many attacks would have been avoided if no one could have entered europe without legal permission. only in this way can we meet the challenge of rebuilding the unity of our societies around common principles and then we will have really worked against violence by fighting the islamism that feeds it today.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, look away from the stares, pretend to ignore a "you're good, you know", be followed, hurry up, pretend to make a phone call, change sidewalks. we've all been taught to grow up with his self-defense reflexes, the only answers our patriarchal society has given us. but do you really know how we feel? today i want to speak to you about our rage, the rage of women who can no longer bear to suffer violence from the streets to our homes, in public or private spaces, including here in the european parliament. suffer from macho remarks, wandering hands and keep quiet for fear of losing your job. to feel a body that one does not desire, to be considered a vulgar object, to be forced, raped, sometimes by a stranger, but much more often by a husband, a father or a friend. and to suffer in his flesh the violence of a sex one does not want. feeling dirty, humiliated and still keeping quiet for fear of not being believed, feeling ashamed, feeling guilty: double the pain. and like so many women, hear from the chosen one first criticism, then insults, more and more frequent, then the first slaps, isolation, stigmas on the body, suffocation, paralysed by fear, pain, unable to escape, seeing death approaching, the blows increasingly violent until those who kill. these femicides, too often still labeled by the media as crimes of passion. life taken away just because you're a woman. 86 women in france have been killed since january by their spouse or ex-spouse, and many more throughout the european union. they're our mothers, our sisters, our friends. i would like to hear their names loud and clear in this house, even if that means, madam president, that i have to exceed my speaking time and be interrupted. if neither our testimony nor our rage compels you to act, then i hope this morbid count of the lives we should have saved will compel you to do so. raymonde, 84 years old anne-sophie, 48 years old; laetitia, 31 years old; valerie, 48, and jeannine, 89; valerie , what 's going on ? what 's the matter ? pascaline, 60 years old melanie, 35 years old jacqueline, 23 years old; georgette, 88 years old brigitte, 67 years old therese, 80 years old veronique, 50 years old aissatou , you 're the one gwenaëlle, 34 years old; marie-amelie, 53 years old andrée, 81 years old i 'm not going to . virginia, 41 years old; sylvie, 50 years old; magdalena, 33 years old florence, 50 years old jennifer, 35 years old sylvie, 45 years old; marguerite, 90 years old salma, 21 years old; grace, 21 years old; severine, 31 years old; the name of the company is: olivia , please . sabrina, 21 years old anne, 83 years old selene, 55 years old marcelle, 84 years old brigitte, 68 years old fatiha, 52 years old; karina , please . dialine; and bettina, 53 years old barbara, 47 years old; myriam, 37 years old; emmanuelle, 41 years old; madalina, 40 years old; linda, 37 years old; tiffany, 23 years old; monica, 51 years old; genevieve, 42 years old; joelle, 50 years old simone, 76 years old deborah , you 're not going . virginia, 45 years old; celine, 38 years old; laure, 52 years old; hanane, 37 years old; manon, 19 years old; lola, 29 years old; korotoume, 30 years old natacha, 43 years old; sylvina, 51 years old brigitte, 59 years old aurore, 49 years old khaddija, 48 years old; alexandra, 30 years old stéphanie, 43 years old; aurelie, 43 years old franciele, 29 years old; christine, 58 years old karine, 51 years old anonymous; i 'm not a doctor . anonymous; anonymous; valerie , what 's going on ? melissa; name not given; maelys; name unknown; sonia, 47 years old camille , please . anonymous; anonymous; sandy, 33 years old; france, 56 years old; lucette, 78 years old
on behalf of the id group. mr president, it is a pleasure to speak from our beautiful parliament in strasbourg. today's debate illustrates the gap that now separates the citizens of the member states from their elites. the purpose of the complaint is to make a number of specious allegations concerning certain north macedonian media outlets financed by hungarian personalities and the promotion of olive oil and refrigerator magnets. this is what the european institution is reduced to, determined to do whatever it takes to bring down the government of viktor orbán. in reality, the only thing they consider the eu's fault is that it opposed the reception of migrants to a non-receiving purpose and vetoed the eu budget in response to the mere principle of conditionality. this discussion of a subject of no interest to our fellow citizens is a clever diversion from the real time bomb of the insane project of enlargement to the balkans, in particular to albania and north macedonia. the interference we should be denouncing in this case is not the interference allegedly carried out by hungary for the benefit of a north macedonian conservative party, but rather that of tirana, which, with the support of some 25% of north macedonian albanians, seems to be patiently weaving the fabric of greater albania. it is also the one implemented by turkey, with a great deal of cooperation in the military and political fields, in particular through its affinity with the pro-albanian besa movement, but also in education and culture. this is evidenced by the ankara-led project of history textbooks for albania, bosnia and herzegovina and north macedonia, which are heavily or majority muslim countries. a significant example of the re-writing of neo-ottoman history that is flourishing in the wake of sultan erdoğan, while europe is being called upon to repent of its colonial past. but it is also and above all the interference of the associations with a charitable façade, which, coming from saudi arabia, qatar, or pakistan, have been touring the country since its independence, while the so-called islamic youth forum, an offshoot of the muslim brotherhood, still stands on the street in its capital, skopje. radical islam is also being driven by the influx of migrants. a report published by the european parliament in 2012 denounced the infiltration of islamist militants via the balkan route, as well as the radicalisation of children in the diaspora of these states, settled in the european union and, according to the report, in particular in austria. the warning is chilling, as it is reminiscent of the profile of the albanian from north macedonia, the islamist terrorist who was shot dead in vienna in november. the commission cannot pretend to ignore the considerable risks it is exposing europeans to at a time when the balkan countries, the region of europe where the concentration of jihadists returning from syria or iraq is the highest, are the only ones to voluntarily and publicly repatriate men affiliated with the islamic state and held by kurdish forces, according to a reference source of information. and if it insists, despite common sense, on its enlargement plan to include states dependent on erdoğan's turkey, it will bear sole responsibility for it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, honourable colleague, this cannot and will not happen because the pressure on bulgaria comes from anti-bulgarian circles in skopje, pro-russian and pro-serb, aided by the media concentration, linked, unfortunately, to the state leadership in hungary. what do you want in the european union to enter an anti-bulgarian, anti-european, pro-russian and pro-serbian patch? you are working against the idea of european union, i'm sorry, i'll tell you a lot about it later and i'll tell you why. and now for the media in north macedonia. yes, there is a fierce anti-bulgarian campaign in north macedonia, fierce. i say again, unfortunately it is supported by pro-russian and pro-serb circles and unfortunately mr. orban is giving asylum to mr. gruevski, and thus directly participating in this anti-bulgarian campaign. but even this parliament was involved when it passed a resolution in which two of my colleagues, mr kneve and mrs ... i forget her name, proposed a resolution in which they demanded recognition of a non-existent separatist organisation, non-existent minorities. this can't be happening. when it comes to freedom of speech, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just what the media is saying about mr. soros, but unfortunately mr. orban has his share of the bad news right now. but i promise you i'll tell you the whole story.
mr president, to my colleagues on the left, let me start with some simple questions. aren’t you concerned by swedish or austrian political interference in slovenia? or maybe german political interference in hungary, poland or perhaps in croatia? i am asking you this because, for instance, a swedish company owns the biggest economic daily newspaper in slovenia. another big slovenian paper is owned partially by austrians, and one of its commercial tv channels is now in czech hands. or let me tell you that rtl klub, a popular tv channel in hungary, is owned entirely by the german rtl group. believe it or not, 80% of regional papers in poland and 60% of the print media in croatia are also in german hands. doesn’t this give you a hard time sleeping at night? well, it should not. these companies have invested their capital into media products in other member states for profit, in line with one of the most basic principles of this community: the freedom of movement of capital. the same is true for north macedonia: investments are private business matters for media companies, and they have nothing to do with politics. this one-sided criticism which is always directed at countries with conservative governments is hypocritical and absurd, and it really shouldn’t feature on the agenda of the european parliament. this institution should remain a serious place that acts in the interests of citizens, and it should not become a circus for political clowns.
mr president, it hardly comes as a surprise that hungarian leaders, with slovenian assistance, put together an international interference operation pouring millions of euros into pro-janša and pro-gruevski media organisations, because we all know very well that orbán’s outrageous propaganda efforts in north macedonia and slovenia are just the tip of the iceberg. whether in brussels, ljubljana or in skopje, orbán has only one goal: undermining the european union for his own personal gain. that is why he sought to topple the zaev government, end the prespa agreement, grant political asylum to gruevski and prevent north macedonia’s much delayed eu accession. when will the epp group finally end this bumpy love affair with fidesz authoritarians? orbán has failed for now, but for his efforts will not stop unless you finally take action. and commissioner, combating foreign interference is rightly one of the commission’s top priorities. i urge you to show the same resolve in tackling such brazen interference by one of our member states.
mr president, the commission has not taken any concrete measures to stop the hungarian government from pressuring independent media. yet, at the same time, this commission officially states – and it’s a good thing – that media pluralism is a fundamental pillar of democracy. sadly, as this debate shows, the trend we’ve seen in hungary is now spreading to other countries. and we know the story: the hungarian government likes to say that there are no journalists imprisoned in hungary, but suffocating the media is enough to kill freedom of expression. it also allows oligarchs to cherry pick media sources, which then ultimately get leaders elected who are more complacent. the european commission has still not responded to two complaints from 2016 and 2018 on the abuse of state aid and state advertisement by the hungarian government, leading to the distortion of the media market. the concentration of media ownership should be taken seriously and urgently addressed by the european commission if we want to ensure democracy and truly fight corruption.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is 25 november, the international day for the elimination of violence against women, and we are here debating the right to vdw in europe in 2020! since the conservatives, these defenders of the right to life, oppose legal abortion, let us explain to them what illegal abortion is! an illegal ivf, ladies and gentlemen, is to accept that a woman's life is in danger, to accept the use of medieval methods and serious complications for women's health, such as sepsis, haemorrhage, infertility and even death. illegal gender-based violence is treating women's bodies as a commodity, for which europe is the market. ladies and gentlemen, abortion is a fundamental right and europe has a responsibility to ensure that it is respected everywhere. polish women are tired of it. european women are sick of it. the european parliament has had enough. mamy dość (polish translation of we have enough)
madam president, tomorrow, france will pay tribute to daniel cordier, who died at the age of 100. he was the penultimate surviving freedom fighter. they were the first to be honoured for their role in liberating france from nazi oppression more than 75 years ago. i'm talking about him because daniel cordier was gay. he wrote it in his memoirs at the honorable age of 89. you will find very few articles, however, that recall this aspect of his identity. but why is this part of the french hero's identity so erased? why would you do that? elsewhere, it is the so-called lgbt ideology that municipalities in poland and more recently in hungary would like to erase. but president von der leyen said that this will to erase cannot be tolerated, because being gay, lesbian, bi, transgender or intersex is not an ideology, it is an identity that some people would like to erase. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you were with us at the renew europe seminar. we heard this poignant testimony from benedict, whose loving parents, with the best will in the world, wanted to erase that part of his identity. i'm talking about conversion therapy, of course. you bring up this subject, i want to support you, i want to tell you that we will support you, especially if you go further. we are with you, madam commissioner, so that europe can become, as our colleague sophia in't veld has suggested, a welcome zone, a continent where people's identities can no longer be erased on the pretext that they are homosexual.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, through this pharmaceutical strategy we have a duty to ensure that european citizens have rapid and fair access to innovative medicines, which are rigorously evaluated, affordable and constantly available. innovative, because they are the result of cutting-edge european research for all diseases, including the rarest. and we welcome the revision of european legislation on medicines for children's diseases, in particular for cancers and rare diseases. this is paramount, it is a matter of justice and fairness. rigorously evaluated. and it will be important to convince the heads of government to unblock the regulation on health technology assessment (hta). this will enable us to determine together the added value of medicines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. you start by proposing closer cooperation between the member states, but you must quickly bring about a revision of the directive on the transparency of price-fixing measures. finally, it should be constantly available, by fighting shortages by strengthening the control missions of the medicines agency and by restoring european pharmaceutical independence. you ask for a study, it must lead to concrete measures. let us thus find together the virtuous circle: research, evaluation, pricing, supply, which is the foundation of the europe of medicine whose first stone you have laid today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, your pharmaceutical strategy will not meet the urgency of the moment. we do not need a strategy that seeks to support the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry, we need a public health policy that is focused on the interests of patients and not on the interests of pharmaceutical companies. the shortage of medicines has been going on for years. the covid-19 crisis has only revealed the scale and the disastrous consequences. it is the continuing search for lower costs by pharmaceutical companies that has led to outsourcing of production to manufacturers and to a growing search for low-cost countries to supply active ingredients. today, 80% of the active ingredients in medicines are produced outside the european union. this is not sustainable. we need a european industrial strategy to organise the conditions for local public pharmaceutical production. already, we see laboratories, such as sanofi, taking up the slogan of relocation. under the pretext of creating a european champion, project pluton will outsource six european sanofi factories into a stand-alone publicly traded entity, enabling a €2 billion savings plan to be passed on, in particular through job cuts and outsourcing activities. this is a scandal. public drug pools must be set up in each member state. it is not normal that medicines paid for twice by citizens, through public research grants and reimbursements from social security systems, should be paid back to shareholders. these medicines must be produced publicly, the only way to guarantee affordability and transparency. and we must start now with medicines of major therapeutic interest as a matter of priority... (the president withdrew from the floor)
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for the very inspiring discussion. you have raised a large number of points. i’ll try to cover as much as possible and i’m sure we’ll have many opportunities to discuss this further. first of all, there were questions on the need to revise the rules for rare diseases and children. i want to say that we have already evaluated the legislation on medicines for rare diseases and children. this evaluation has shown that there are already a number of shortcomings. the main problems identified here are insufficient development and in the areas of the greatest unmet medical needs, as i have mentioned. so we will be holding more consultations with stakeholders in the next year and we will be moving forward in order to be able to have a fair and balanced system where we refer to rare diseases and children. again, in the same area, there were some questions on how we can push pharmaceutical companies to invest in rare diseases and unmet needs. for example, paediatric cancers appear to be of limited interest for the industry. we need to look at this. our first step will be to review the legislation on medicines for children and rare diseases. our objective is simple: to improve the therapeutic landscape and address unmet needs through more tailored incentives. we will foresee the adoption of a new proposal by 2022. on amr: there were several questions on antimicrobial resistance. it is a major threat. covid—19 has further highlighted this. currently, we see that there’s a weak and challenging business case to invest in the development of new antimicrobials. one of the reasons is that its use must remain restricted once placed on the market. we will be aiming to tackle this in two ways: to measure the reduce and use and ensure the appropriate use of antimicrobials, and also incentivise the development of new classes of antimicrobials. this will be done through both legislative and non-legislative proposals. another point that was raised by several of you is access to medicines, a huge issue. this is a key priority. i have said it from the beginning. there can be no first and second-class citizens in the eu. everyone should have the right of access to the same treatments and the inequalities we see at the moment are simply unacceptable. we need to change this so we will be proposing concrete actions. we will be linking incentives for innovation with obligations for the companies, we will be initiating with the european medicines agency (ema) and member states a pilot to engage in this, and we will be improving access for generics and biosimilars, which many of you have mentioned. regarding environmental challenges, the strategy will be addressing the whole lifecycle of pharmaceuticals and we will be proposing to reform our pharma legislation to ensure environmental sustainability, but not only, by also strengthening cooperation with our international partners to ensure quality and environmental sustainability of active pharmaceutical ingredients (apis) currently imported from non-european countries. i mentioned generic and biosimilars. this is a very important question because it really can provide patients with access to affordable treatments. we will look to reform the pharma legislation to better promote competition of such products. regarding affordability, availability of medicines goes hand in hand with affordability so we’ll be promoting and supporting cooperation between national authorities to exchange best practice and will also be looking at improving transparency on the methods for establishing the research and development of medicines. on the issue of data, next year we will be presenting the european health data space. this will aim to facilitate access and the exchange of health data. this would really change the way that health systems and patient access are being seen at the moment. but we do need to understand that health data is also very sensitive so we need to ensure a high level of protection. we will be engaging closely with citizens to make sure that they can understand this. in terms of the production of medicinal products and because i have mentioned strategic autonomy and there were some questions on this, i want to be absolutely clear that the eu will remain open and promote open trade. protectionism is not in the dna of the european union, but strategic economy is a political objective of this strategy and it’s also a major lesson learned from covid—19. but, first of all, we need to have a better understanding of the supply chain design and identify its vulnerability in order to be able to move forward, while continuing to diversify our supply sources, wherever necessary manufacturing in europe, and working more closely with our third—country trading partners. trade came up again when we were discussing the security of supply. we are exploring, in the context of the world trade organization, the launching of an initiative facilitating trade in health products in emergency situations and also looking at how we can explore with the eu’s trading partners to conclude a multilateral agreement on tariff elimination on pharmaceutical and medical goods. regarding intellectual property and the pharmaceutical strategy, i will try to be very brief. any revisions to the rules of intellectual property and pharmaceutical investment incentives will address the need to foster innovation and make medicines available to all patients at an affordable price. so innovation needs to match the needs and match the needs of patients. we have already addressed shortages, but what we need to understand is that what we all need to work on together is to ensure that medicines are available to patients in need and at all times, whether it is a time of crisis or not. the patient is really at the heart of this initiative. because the causes of medicine shortages are complex, before moving forward we have launched a study on the root causes of medicine shortages. this will be finalised in the second half of 2021 and we will then be able to promote specific actions. regarding what we done in the last few months – because there were several questions on that – to address it, i won’t list all the actions, but i can say that, from the very beginning of this pandemic, i personally, and with commissioner breton, have engaged with industry, asking them to increase production capacity where we identified increased demand. we adopted guidelines to promote optimal supply of medicines and we launched joint procurement to address shortages of critical hospital medicines. so a great deal has been done, but we need to put this into place so that, at a time of crisis, we already have everything in place that we need to have. regarding innovation, this is really one of the things at the heart of the pharmaceutical legislation proposals and we need to make the necessary adaptations in order for our legislation to be really more innovation friendly. this will also deal with bottlenecks and improve regulatory gaps that we may have. we need to give incentives to industry, but we also expect accessibility to medicines to be improved and inequalities of access to disappear from the eu. there were one or two questions on cancer. the europe beating cancer plan is shortly going to be presented before you, but we know that cancer is a major cause of death in children after infancy and so we are looking at the revision of the orphan and paediatric regulation to ensure this. we need to do more in the treatment of paediatric cancers and this pharmaceutical strategy will interact very closely with the europe beating cancer plan because it will support the goal of sustainable cancer prevention with the right incentives for innovation, for a vaccination against treatable infections that cause cancer and much more. and, yes, we propose to amend the role of the european medicines agency (ema). i have already analysed this when presenting the european health union. i have absolutely no doubt that this is the way forward for a stronger european health union. we will need to strengthen our agencies in order for them to deliver what we expect them to deliver. i’d like to end by answering what several honourable members mentioned on the issue of competencies. we are very well aware of the competencies, as of course is the european parliament and the council, but we’re also very well aware of the importance of solidarity and coordination. everything we have put forward, in terms of the european health union and in terms of the pharmaceutical strategy, takes into account and is well within the treaty. but we have also learned from covid—19 that we need to be flexible and we need to try and work, using the treaty, to all the limits that it can give us and all the boundaries so that we can move forward. i very much look forward to your support for this strategy. we need to have the support of the european parliament. i want to thank you on a personal basis, because i’ve had the opportunity to speak with many of you over the last few months, for the support for eu for health and the increase in the budget. this is a very important part for us. what i can end by saying is that, with president von der leyen and with all my colleagues, all the commissioners, we are going to leave no stone unturned until we find the way out of this pandemic. we need to seize the opportunity of this crisis to come out stronger, stronger in the area of health, and deliver to citizens what they expect – a stronger european health union. this is what they have asked us for from the beginning of this crisis and this is what we should all be working together to deliver.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the adoption of the pharmaceutical strategy for europe is certainly a step forward in the construction of a european health union. the s&d group has long called for greater action to ensure access to safe, effective and affordable medicines and is pleased to see that the commission's proposal suggests concrete actions to achieve these objectives. the spanish socialists hope that the commission will create a structure in which there can be joint work between patient associations, administrations and the pharmaceutical industry. we also call for more investment in genuine, not incremental, research to assess the added therapeutic value of new innovative medicines and to make the eu a therapeutic r & d benchmark. the covid-19 pandemic should serve as a lesson for us to create a good pharmaceutical strategy. future measures should focus on patients, ensuring equal access to medicines and therapies for all european citizens. the ultimate aim is to ensure the health of all and to build a europe more resilient to future health crises.
in writing. we have an obligation to guarantee citizens equal access to medicines. medicines have to be affordable for everyone, they have to be available in pharmacies, we don't have to replace new and better drugs with old ones because of prohibitive prices, or we find out that rare diseases don't have drugs just because they're not profitable for the pharmaceutical companies. the european commission has presented to us in this plenary session its new pharmaceutical strategy. this is a step i welcome in order to give applicability to other health programmes, such as the 'eu for health' or the future european plan to fight cancer. both are ambitious programmes with salutary objectives. but if we fail to ensure that people have a basic right to access the medicines they need, then all these goals will remain on paper. the new pharmaceutical strategy must guarantee: equal access to medicines, affordable prices for innovative medicines, their availability in all member states, affordable medicines for rare diseases, transparency of the costs of developing a new medicine, eu pharmaceutical independence by relocating the production of basic substances, even if the costs of pharmaceutical companies' labour force increase. in the new pharmaceutical strategy approach, we need to stop looking at medicines as commercial goods and look at them as existential goods.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the elimination of customs duties on certain products (com ((2020) 0496 c9-0284/2020 2020/0253 cod)) (a9-0217/2020). i would point out to members that there is no provision for spontaneous interventions in any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted. i know that this is also a source of resentment, but it is also a matter of justice to cross that line. mr martusciello was very angry that i did not give him the floor earlier, although he wanted to comment on the death of diego maradona. but the rule applies to everyone. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the last few weeks, our knowledge of the geography of the united states has grown considerably. now we know exactly where georgia is, and we know exactly where maine is, which is up there on the top right of the map of the united states. maine is, in fact, the place where most american lobster is produced. that is the purpose of the legislation we have on the table. the american lobster industry has suffered greatly from mr trump's trade wars, particularly with china: 25% extra duties on american lobsters. but we also have a trade agreement with canada, ceta, which also allows canadian lobsters duty-free into the european union, so that we are also in competition with maine there, so that in maine demand has fallen by 50 per cent. this is of course dramatic, and i think it is right that we should say here that we are making an offer to you and allowing american lobsters to enter the european union duty free. this is not a genuinely social democratic demand, but the socialist group in the inta, like many others, has followed this proposal with a large, overwhelming majority, for two reasons: one reason is that this is a mfn story that applies to all lobster producers, so it's not a unilateral measure, as mr trump would have liked, but a universal one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the second point, mr president and commissioner, is of course: this is an offer - an offer to tackle the many construction sites we have with the united states. i would like to mention just eight: the investigations in the field of national security, the 232 tariffs imposed by mr trump on steel and aluminium, the threat to cars, harbour cranes and power lines - all these must be put to the test and discussed to see whether they are really still relevant. and if there are conflicts, we can go to the wto. the customs duties imposed under article 301 in the area of unfair trade practices were also, of course, a blockade measure. the debate that is now emerging is the question of measures to counter a digital tax, which is being discussed very intensively in france, but also within the european union. even if there are conflicts, it is appropriate to discuss them within the framework of the wto and not with the countermeasures of individual tariff impositions. we must also talk about the so-called anti-dumping duties on aluminium products. you can't think that 18 countries around the world -- very different companies -- have now gone and agreed: now we're going to dump so that we can have access to the american market. that's not fair, and we need to talk about that, too. then we have had the airbus-boeing discussion for 16 years. this is escalating a little bit higher now. we have to get in there, we have to sit down and look at how we can find a balance, how we can find compliance, how we can also make sure that third-party aircraft providers fit into that regulatory framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. we would not even consider passing legislation called 'energy security for the united states'. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe. we must discuss and abolish this too. we also have common interests, of course, in dealing with china, for example. but i believe that this too is a matter of joint action, of coming together, of developing a common strategy and not of taking more unilateral, unilateral measures. we also need to reform the arbitration tribunal, the appellate body, within the wto. we need to lift the blockade on the new wto director-general and we need to extend the wto rule book. we can also cooperate in this area, as well as in the protection of the paris agreement on climate change, its implementation and workers' rights. i am very pleased that my colleague mr neal, the chairman of the ways and means committee, has made it clear in congress that trade policy should now be made more worker-friendly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but we have a chance now to sit down and figure out how we can move forward together. and there are indeed more similarities than are sometimes seen in concrete conflicts. in that sense, this law is an offer. and the motto is not "happiness for all", but the motto is "cooperation instead of confrontation".
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the proposed regulation under discussion today is of high political importance for improving the transatlantic trade relationship. as you know, the eu and the us have the largest bilateral trade and investment relationship and the most integrated economic relationship in the world. this relationship has, however, been under considerable strain in recent years, with increased areas of tension, and with us unilateral actions leading to a negative impact on bilateral trade. this package helps to set us on a better path. it is the first negotiated reduction of duties between us in more than two decades. while it is limited in scope, it is an important sign of our joint wish to de—escalate tensions. it can support settlement of other ongoing disputes and help us to engage on a positive agenda. it is in this context and spirit that the then eu commissioner for trade hogan and us trade representative lighthizer issued a joint statement in august of this year to announce a package of tariff reductions. since then, we have worked hard to make it into reality and the eu and us should now adopt the necessary autonomous measures under their domestic procedures and legislative scrutiny to realise the objectives of the joint statement, starting with a tariff reduction package. this is the aim of the proposed regulation in front of you. in substance, the proposed regulation stipulates that the eu will eliminate import tariffs on certain types of lobster. the us, on its side, will provide a 50% duty relief for a comparable economic value on products such as prepared meals, certain crystal glassware, surface preparations, propellant powders, cigarette lighters and lighter parts. the tariff reductions are to be implemented in a fully wto—consistent manner, respecting the most favoured nation principle. they are to apply for an initial period of five years, retroactively beginning on 1 august 2020. the objective of the joint statement is to de—escalate tensions, but this can be only fulfilled in a context where the us does not carry out the threats they have been making in recent years to impose certain measures on the eu, including unilateral tariffs under section 232 and section 301 outside the wto framework. the proposed regulation therefore provides that if the us does not reduce its own tariffs or it introduces new measures against the eu that undermine the objectives of the joint statement, the commission may suspend the elimination of duties provided for in the regulation. on 10 november, the committee on international trade voted favourably on the adoption of the regulation, without amendments. also, the council endorsed the commission proposal following a coreper on 18 november, and it has indicated that if the european parliament adopts the commission’s proposal at first reading it would approve its position and the regulation should be adopted accordingly. so we are very encouraged by this. we see this regulation as the right step at the right time. it allows us to signal to the incoming us administration our strong commitment to transatlantic trade relationships. i am looking forward to hearing your views today and hope for a positive outcome of the discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for its tireless work towards a positive transatlantic trade agenda despite the difficult circumstances in those years of dysfunctional trade relations. as vice-president dombrovskis said, this agreement brings mutual lowering of the tariffs by both sides for the first time in 20 years and as part of the escalating strategy it can be a stepping stone toward more vigorous engagement in an open and frank discussion about further reduction of trade irritants in transatlantic relations. there are still many of those and bernd lange mentioned many of them. we have to find a negotiated solution regarding subsidies to our airline industries, but we also have to engage effectively in multilateral fora to promote a fair and rules-based global trading system. the us is our obvious strategic partner in a shifting global landscape and trade is a crucial instrument of this strategic partnership. our trade relations will most likely not go back to good old times with the election of joe biden, but the new president is a transatlanticist and it gives me hope that we can approach common challenges with a fresh start. the vote in the committee on international trade on the agreement with an overwhelming majority shows that we appreciate a constructive approach to the transatlantic relationship and i hope that with a similar majority in the plenary vote we can send the signal to the incoming administration that the eu is ready and willing to jointly build a future based on common, strategic and systemic interests.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this proposal to eliminate customs duties on certain products is not what it seems. in itself, despite its universal application, as our rapporteur bernd lange has pointed out, this proposal represents a 'mini trade agreement' with the united states which benefits only certain products. it is not 200 million euros when we have today a total trade flow of 800 billion euros. of course, tariff reduction or tariff elimination is always a positive for the sectors involved, whether it is european products that will be exported at more competitive prices, or the live or frozen lobster industry, which will benefit from tariff-free exports from the united states to the european union. but the truth is that this agreement is a first step towards restoring normalcy in trade relations between the european union and the united states and that is what we really want: to put an end to this absurd trade war, which we can only do by re-establishing bonds of trust and taking steps in the right direction, and this is a step in the right direction. we really want to put an end to an absurd war that has no winners and benefits no one, and we want to re-establish our transatlantic relationship, for the sake of the economy, for the sake of the global trade order, but above all for the sake of peace and security, for the sake of multilateralism and for the sake of development cooperation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, with the so—called ‘lobster’ trade deal between the eu and the united states that reduces some tariffs on either side, we open a door to shared efforts to overcome the trade war mentality which has poisoned transatlantic relations over the last four years. the deal is a fair and a balanced one. we’re not naive. that’s why we have also put two guardians at the door. one is the trade enforcement mechanism that we have put in place, the other is the retaliating tariffs, which we have legally imposed on the wto rules to signal to the us that there is a need for an agreement in the age-old boeing-airbus battles. as we do open a door, we also emphasise that our efforts cannot be successful if this were to be a one-way traffic. both sides have to be willing to go through this door. we expect the new biden administration to understand this. low-hanging fruits will be an agreement on the new wto director-general, new efforts – shared efforts – to reform the wto appellate body and overcoming the boeing-airbus mess. we’re willing to engage in broader shared efforts: wto reform in general, lifting unfair sanctions on eu steel and aluminium, developing effective ways of greening trade rules in order to live up to the challenge of climate change. let us revive trade multilateralism and modernise it at the same time. by the way, as mr lange said, this deal is also an opportunity for other countries because it’s organised under the mfn (most-favoured-nation) rule. it’s a multilateral solution, it doesn’t only help maine’s lobster industry, that is suffering under the consequences of trump’s trade war, but it can also help australian producers that suffer under chinese coercive measures. we support this deal and we hope for more to come.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i understand the enthusiasm of some colleagues, but let me say that i do not share it. so yes, it is true, this is the first tariff concessions agreement with the united states in almost 20 years. and yes, indeed, our debate comes at a time when joe biden has won the presidential election and some of us are holding out hope, not least because biden has announced that he will ratify the paris agreement. for us, this is good news. but at the same time, if there is one area, in my opinion, where the policy of the united states is not going to change, it is trade policy, because the aggressiveness in this area did not start with mr. trump and, in my opinion, it will survive the trump administration. i would remind our enthusiastic colleagues that the signing of this agreement did not prevent the united states from introducing new restrictions on steel and aluminium imports under the wto anti-dumping regime. i would also remind you that the united states continues to use aggressive extraterritorial measures against european companies, which is why we must continue to be vigilant, determined and not naive. this is what the canadians are doing, for example, who have understood that to push the americans back, they must be met with swift retaliatory measures. you say cooperation and not confrontation, but still the americans should be prepared for cooperation. this is not the case today. so let's stay on our toes, let's stay on the move. i would like to say a word, a thought, because there is a lot of talk about the maine fishermen, but i am thinking of the breton and irish fishermen at the time of the brexit negotiations, who are also lobster fishermen and who are also facing difficult economic conditions.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then very quickly the situation came up that a lot of people were worried in europe. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states and to provide information on the situation in the community. it was exciting when then president trump came to power and we saw the transatlantic trade relations and the transatlantic relations in general come to a low point. many of those who were the loudest against the ttip agreement at the time were there, those who were the loudest: 'yes, we should have an agreement with the united states and we should be prepared accordingly!' so my wish is that we now use this slow in-drive commute. we concluded the agreement on high-quality beef last year, and this year we have concluded the agreement on lobster. we have many construction sites bernd lange has addressed some, such as the airbus/boeing dispute, the arbitrary tariffs on steel and aluminium , but we are all faced with the challenge: the big competitor is in china. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept them. i hope that we all have the strength to compromise with the americans and then to promote our common interests worldwide, knowing that there are areas where we have different interests.
mr president, i am not going to talk about lobster. crab and champagne, that's a difficult subject for socialists. but rest assured, i welcome this deal. i think we should approve him, too. we all know that the united states is our most important trading partner. at the same time, we have seen these trade relations come under enormous pressure in recent years. and so it's time to start working on a positive narrative with the united states when it comes to multilateral relations and trade relations. but i want to make one thing very, very clear. unfortunately, the united states was also the first country to withdraw from the paris agreement in recent years. and - ironically, oh ironically - since 4 november they are actually no longer bound by that agreement. the return to the paris agreement must be a precondition for the european union to develop these positive trade relations. the biden administration has committed to that. that is very important, positive news. it's also important to work on those positive trade relations along with the agenda that we ourselves put forward in the green new deal. the carbon correction at the border, for example, is going to be an incredibly important topic to work on, but also the digital tax, which we're going to need to get our own recovery going. we must also be able to make good agreements with the united states on this. in conclusion: yes, we will support and approve this agreement, but it must be a first step to work towards a sustainable future and to work towards trade relations that should ensure that in the future we can ensure that we can get out of this pandemic and thus write a positive story all over the world.
madam president, commissioner, i have to say that the election of joe biden and his willingness to re-enter the paris agreement is a game changer, because no trade agreement, even a limited one, can be signed with a non-paris agreement state. compatibility with our wto commitments, most favoured nation rules integrated: that's a good thing. so is the conditionality clause. because let us be clear, if the united states introduces new illegal measures, the commission will have to react. this little deal has its uses, but it's got to be the exception. trade policy is not just about tariff liberalisation, but must go hand in hand with the promotion of human rights and the fight against climate change. so the election of a democrat to the white house suggests that the defender of multilateralism will return to the negotiating table. however, this return does not augur anything for the outcome of our exchanges. so let us not be delusional, we cannot expect everything from the united states and become the playground of the sino-american conflict. the european union must defend rules-based trade, rules that are adapted and respected by all. many issues remain, such as the extraterritoriality of us laws, which harms the interests of european companies and citizens. let us increase our capacity to react to the drift of extraterritoriality. we do not want a trade war, we want the conditions for peace. we will therefore support this first agreement as a basis for cooperation, but let us not make a mistake: our strategic autonomy must be our horizon and priority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the real meaning of this agreement is political rather than commercial. we must aim at improving relations with the united states, easing trade tensions and supporting a fair settlement of the disputes that are ongoing. the us is the eu's main market for agricultural and food products, and the most important destination for exports of high-quality products with high added value. as is well known, the dispute over subsidies to airbus and boeing has led to tariff increases on many european products exported to the united states. these increases have affected products from countries which are not part of the airbus consortium and sectors which are not at all connected with the dispute, such as agri-foodstuffs, where european products are already being penalised by imports which do not comply with our own rules. in view of the recent ruling by the world trade organization, which authorized europe to apply tariffs on us goods and services worth $4 billion, it is all the more necessary to start a constructive dialogue and avoid any kind of escalation that would have unforeseeable and worrying effects at a particularly sensitive time for the economy due to the effects of the pandemic. i recall that, again in the agri-food sector, six years ago it was the victim of russian counter-sanctions in response to european support for the united states on sanctions against the russian federation, with a total loss in 2017 of the european agricultural sector and food industry of about 5.5 billion euros and a reported damage to the agri-food made in italy of about one billion euros by 2020. to this must be added the heavy sustainability commitments that farmers may be called upon to respect in the coming community rules.
madam president, as the commissioner has said, the european union and the united states have the largest bilateral trading fraction and the most integrated economic relationship in the world. but unfortunately, under president trump, who had a more frosty approach to the european union, our trading relationship has been strained, and when the us imposed tariffs on our steel and aluminium on alleged national security grounds, naturally the eu retaliated. however, this deal marks the first time in more than 20 years that the us and the eu decided to cut tariffs, marking critical de-escalation in transatlantic relations. this is something that commissioner hogan should be given great credit for. having discussed details of the deal with him, i know how he used his political skills, his experience and his irishness to thaw the frost, if i may use that phrase. however, with a joe biden presidency, we’re likely to see a more multilateral approach and cooperation on such things as climate change, prevention of future pandemics, open trade environment, all this is very positive. now, of course, we have to monitor the effects of this agreement on european fishermen and especially ensure that no harm is done to the bio-security of our native lobster stocks. this should include financial assistance from the eu and, if necessary, a price monitoring of native lobster stocks. i would ask the commissioner, is this part of the plan? overall, this is a good deal and i welcome it and look forward to better relations between ourselves and the us in due course.
mr. president, wake up in a strange world! what the hell is going on here? more than two years ago, i expressed my surprise at the quarrel between donald trump and jean-claude juncker, who were fighting like two kemphans. they were directly opposed to each other in the battle over import tariffs on steel. unfortunately, it became a long series of conflicts from allegations of alleged state aid to aircraft manufacturers to blocking tech taxes for the googles of this world. and indeed, the impossible became possible: the united states and europe were directly opposite. what does that world look like now? the us election has been won by democrat joe biden. this gives hope for better relations and a stable relationship based on mutual respect. today's mini-ideal is a welcome first step. i hope it will lead to a reduction in trade tensions and a settlement of the conflicts. it is necessary because it is indecent that multinationals pay little tax while the baker on the corner does. and it is incomprehensible that in times of global warming the americans have withdrawn from the paris climate agreement. but we also need each other very much in the fight for fair trade throughout the world, trade which takes account of the endorsement of, for example, the ilo conventions, so that workers everywhere in the world are assured of good working conditions. mr. president, we're not there yet, but we're on our way. the new change of power in the united states means new hope for restoring our decades-old good trade relations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from our seat in milan we are telling what the league has been telling for years and we are pleased that the european parliament is finally talking about tariffs and understanding the importance of tariffs. tariffs are a tool to regulate markets where there is unfair competition. if there are countries with different rules than our producers, the duty becomes a tool to avoid so-called dumping, to avoid unfair competition. europe must do this. in addition to this, it must also maintain controls on products coming from outside europe, because it is the same european food safety authority which certifies that products coming to europe are eight times more dangerous than italian and european products, especially those coming from china and especially food products from china which often contain insecticides that have been banned for years by our laws. i understand that maybe in china they use insecticides to kill and eat insects, but in europe this must not happen. it is clear that germany, with 48% of its exports, has advantages, but it cannot be thought that for the benefit of one country the other 26 countries are invaded by products from outside europe.
madam president, last tuesday we discussed here the guidelines for our common commercial policy and we demanded that the commission be firm in developing its economic sovereignty and strategic autonomy. today we welcome this agreement to eliminate customs duties on a number of products, not so much for the figures - a reduced tariff line of just 168 million euro - but for what it represents politically, because it is the first in 20 years between the european union and the united states and because it should mark the beginning of transatlantic tariff de-escalation. the european union is not a trading partner, but a geopolitical ally. it is clear that we are still involved in tariff battles which continue to penalise agri-food products throughout the european union, and especially in key spanish sectors such as olive oil, wine, table olives and cheese. and it is our producers who continue to suffer unfairly from the consequences of disputes that are alien to them. and this has to end. the european union and the united states must understand each other, and to do so we must be in dialogue, but also firm in defending our interests. i know balances aren't easy. today's is a good start.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all, thank you for your observations and for the useful debate today. your support to adopt the proposed regulation rapidly will help to send a strong political signal of improving transatlantic trade relationships. this will prepare the ground for a positive start with the new us administration and can lead the way forward towards additional positive steps and agreements. so, with your support, we will take this important step on the road to a stronger transatlantic trade relationship.
the situation in algeria and the continuing tensions are not new. we see continuous mobilizations by citizens who want to end the authoritarian regime. in this resolution we send a message of solidarity to all those in algeria who seek to fight for human rights. we condemn the arbitrary and unlawful detentions, including the detention of journalists, human rights defenders and peaceful opponents. we call for the release of all prisoners of conscience, including khaled drareni. we support the demands of the feminist movement for equality. we reaffirm that the activities of european companies must be carried out in compliance with the protection of human rights and against any form of exploitation. as one of the leaders of the iraqi movement, the resistance movement, said, "in words, dialogue, on the ground, repression". in algeria, there is a crackdown. we need to stay on the side of dialogue.
author. madam president, at the beginning of 2019, an extraordinary and peaceful social movement the hirak was born in algeria, which calls for a more free, more equal and transparent society, as well as a better future for algeria and algerian youth. the hirak is an unprecedented, extraordinary and even exemplary movement, characterized by the total absence of violence during protests over a very long period and by that particular algerian humour. algerian women and algerians can be proud of that. the press that was reporting on this movement was unfortunately targeted for this. the renewal of algeria cannot be achieved by flouting the freedom of the press, in particular by using the health crisis to increase its repression. ensuring freedom of the press means ensuring the vitality of our democracies, the flow of information, openness, critical thinking, creativity and citizen awareness. in 2020, algeria was ranked 146th (out of 180) in the world ranking of press freedom, dropping 27 places from 2015. we want, first of all, to show the algerian people and human rights defenders that we are not forgetting them and to express our solidarity and support. secondly, to ask the government to respect the fundamental freedom to inform and to be informed. we also call on the european commission and the eeas to take a stronger, more assertive public stance on respect for human rights in algeria, to do everything in their power to convince the algerian authorities to stop arbitrary detentions and to keep us regularly informed of developments. finally, on a note of hope, to dream and to work towards a new common future for algeria and europe by participating, for example, in projects such as erasmus, which give our young people a chance to meet each other, to enrich each other with their cultures in respect of common values. in the language of the algerians and with their pride and love for their beautiful country: tahya djazair. long live the algerian people.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to thank mr khaled drareni, mr kaddour chouicha, mrs jamila loukil, mr hakim addad, mr yacine mebarki and mr mohamed baba nedjar for their work. these people imprisoned or prosecuted for their mobilization are the living forces of algerian democracy. the fate of these human rights defenders, protesters and journalists is of great concern to us today. the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of the child. the commission makes little use of the european instrument for democracy and human rights in algeria. a year ago we were already asking for support from its broken civil society. i repeat our demands here: visit them in prison, follow their trials and support the organizations working for human rights.
madam president, freedom of the press is an essential principle in a state governed by the rule of law, as i have already said here in connection with the detention of ahmet altan in turkey. this principle of freedom exists on paper in algeria, because the law forbids detaining a journalist in the course of his work. but this principle is not applied. the scandalous detention of journalist khaled drareni is proof of this. what is the charge against this correspondent of tv5 monde and reporters without borders? for relaying the totally legal communiqué of a coalition of opposition parties and for criticizing the algerian government. his detention is now a clear violation of freedom of expression and a strong signal of the weakening of democracy in algeria. we therefore ask the algerian regime to allow visits by members of his family, which are now prohibited, from now on. we also ask him to release this journalist who is guilty of one thing only: doing his job. mr president tebboune, show humanity and show the world that freedom of expression and human rights still have meaning in algeria.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in belarus is getting worse. the protests continue with unabated strength. at the same time, the dictatorial regime still shows no willingness to engage in dialogue, and reports of police brutality are getting worse. the latest is the terrible murder of raman bandarenka. now that we're in the fourth month of protests, it's easy for us to lose focus. the attention shifts to other news. it is even more important for us not to look down. to continue to pay attention to the struggle of the belarusian people for democracy. i want them to know we're still on their side. for the belarusian people's struggle for freedom and justice, it is also our struggle. a loss to their struggle for democracy is also our loss. we must continue to support the democracy movement in every way we can and condemn and punish any crime committed by lukashenka and his entourage, now and as long as the regime's repression continues. long live the belarusians!
member of the commission. – mr president, we have witnessed an unprecedented level of repression in belarus over the last three months. it is clear that the elections were neither free nor fair and lukashenko has no democratic legitimacy. the belarusian authorities have not accepted international offers of mediation and the human rights situation continues to deteriorate. more than 30 000 people have been arrested following the elections and there are more than 100 political prisoners recognised by the european union. at least 500 cases of torture have been documented and at least four persons have been killed. the latest example, as mentioned by many, was on 12 november when 31-year-old raman bandarenka died due to serious injuries caused by the brutality of police. this is another shameful result of the brutal repression that the belarusian authorities carry out against their own peacefully protesting people. as the european union, we have been leading the international response for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in belarus. the eu-led resolution in the un human rights council requests the un high commissioner for human rights to monitor the situation of human rights in belarus and to present an oral update on the situation, including recommendations, to be followed by a written report and an interactive dialogue at the next session of the un human rights council. the eu member states were at the forefront of the move within the osce to invoke the moscow mechanism to report on the human rights violations in belarus and provide recommendations. the resulting report and recommendations should now be followed up. the eu stands ready to assist in the implementation of these recommendations. there must be no impunity for violations of human rights such as those that we are witnessing in belarus. we will continue to support the peaceful protesters and their legitimate call for free and fair elections. we will continue to support civil society and independent media. and we have also launched the preparatory work for the third package of sanctions, in addition to the sanctions on 55 individuals responsible for the violent repression and election falsification which we have already adopted. and finally, concerning the so-called magnitsky act, the commission has done its work. it has sent the proposal to the council. as announced in the council conclusions on 12 october, the european union stands also ready to support a peaceful democratic transition with a variety of instruments, including a comprehensive plan of economic support for a democratic belarus. let me thank at the end the european parliament for its relentless support to the democratic struggle of the belarusian people.
we now move on to the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare today's second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:00. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.50 p.m.)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
ladies and gentlemen, it is a bit emotional today to return to strasbourg after many months of a pandemic that has brought our countries to a standstill, that has brought the european union to a standstill, that has brought the world to a standstill, and i am here with you today at the seat of our institution to open our december session and also to convey to the city of strasbourg and to the french authorities a message of friendship, solidarity, cooperation, with our parliamentarians, all the political groups, a warm greeting to the citizens of the city of strasbourg. it is also an emotion for us to remember the attack two years ago, on 11 december 2018, which hit the city of strasbourg and our institution. my thoughts are with you and the victims, their families and their friends. strasbourg and its region have suffered deeply from covid-19, a virus that has killed many of our fellow citizens. we're going to end this year with almost 500,000 dead. we are aware of the human, social and economic difficulties that the city is facing. parliament wants to be at your side and we were happy to be able to provide some solidarity initiatives, to try to meet the difficulties of the citizens of this city, to provide a solidarity canteen and a covid-19 screening centre, because we have always thought that it is the duty of the institutions to set a good example. it is our common desire that our plenary sessions should be held again in this chamber. parliament has acted with determination and has quickly taken the necessary steps to continue its work in the difficult circumstances these months have imposed on us, but we can also be proud of the fact that covid has not stopped the institutions and has not stopped the european parliament and therefore has not stopped the development of european democracy and its institutions. parliament can be proud of having exercised its prerogatives and of having kept european democracy open. after my opening, the session will, as you know, resume in brussels in full compliance with the measures in force for the protection of public health. but we will soon be returning to strasbourg, this is our home, as it is written in the treaties, but as it is written in the history of the european union. the covid-19 pandemic, as you know, is having very profound social and economic consequences for our citizens and our businesses. we will come out of this crisis stronger and more united, i am convinced. i am convinced that the challenges we face in the future will be met by a union that is more resilient and more capable of meeting the challenges of the future, and the measures we have taken in these months will enable future generations to be more resilient, to face with greater strength the challenges that the global world will present to us. it is time for a truly european vision and i believe that our public opinion and citizens are also beginning to realise that a more efficient, stronger europe is the guarantee of their response, that no one could do it alone. we remember at this moment a man of vision, a man who has given much to the european union and its institutions, former president valéry giscard d'estaing. he left us on 2 december, and we lost a friend and a passionate european. in his 'mémoires' he wrote that it was 'a source of intense satisfaction for me to contribute to the construction of europe'. and his contribution is part of our reality: a european parliament elected by universal suffrage; the creation of the european monetary system in 1979, which 20 years later gave birth to our single currency, the euro; the european council has been a very important step in this direction, and it is important that we should be able to take part in the european council in strasbourg. his convictions led him to work tirelessly for a more democratic europe, a europe closer to the citizens, and led him to lead the convention responsible for presenting the european constitution. he believed strongly in a project that was as balanced as possible. and as jean monnet, who inspired him, observed, europe seemed to valéry giscard d'estaing 'a natural step'. it is also natural that the european parliament should pay tribute to the president who was a member of this parliament from 1989 to 1993. we will gather in this hemicycle, here in strasbourg, on 2 february, his birthday, to honour him in a ceremony attended by president macron and other heads of state and government. i ask you to join me in a minute's silence in memory of valéry giscard d'estaing. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence) it is time to continue the fight and work for a europe that meets the expectations of our citizens. that is the commitment of parliament. last saturday, five years ago, the paris agreement was signed. since 2015, the european union and many countries, parliaments and cities have declared a climate and environmental emergency. citizens, especially our young people, have called for urgent global action. since then, we have envisioned a more sustainable development model with environmental and social justice at its core. the green deal is our new strategy, our new growth strategy and it will be a game changer for decades to come. we want europe to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. we want to be first in class. emission reduction targets are a measure of our ambition and, under european climate law, the european parliament sees a 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as the key to achieving our goals. through the paris agreement, european nations have committed to playing a leading role in achieving the green transition. it is our responsibility as a parliament to ensure that the union continues to be a pioneer in the fight against climate change. the european parliament will work to ensure a green transition and a just transition. but policies need means. we have important votes ahead of us and i am particularly pleased that parliament will be voting on the multiannual financial framework and own resources and the rule of law regulation at this part-session after the council has unblocked these dossiers. this money, these instruments are extremely necessary for our citizens and our businesses. parliament has been a decisive player from day one, because we wanted to get the best possible agreement. this debate is not just about money, it is about the lives of europeans. therefore, we will remain vigilant in the implementation phase. in conclusion, i would also like to remind you that we are about to mark the 25th anniversary of the dayton agreement. if it was important for the time when it stopped the war, it is certainly time to look beyond this agreement and into the future. a quarter of a century later, the wounds of war are still present. only through genuine and sincere reconciliation can the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and their political leaders build an inclusive, prosperous and european-oriented society that offers a future for the younger generations. this is an important plenary session, the end of a year which will go down in the history books, and we certainly do not want the consequences of this difficult year to stop us in our ambitions, our plans and our decisions, which will be so important next year too, to ensure that the union meets the needs of our citizens.
mr president, i would like to remind you of rule 155. you want me to speak italian? i can do it. dear president, thank you for being here, really. it was difficult, as you know, for strasbourg and for the elected representatives that we are, and it is important - as you stressed in your speech - that we respect the treaties. your presence here honors us. you are, in effect, proving that you can come here and sit. it is therefore important that this message be now official and productive for the future, especially for the month of january, so that we members can all come back here. because you saw it in the last plenary session: there were only 300 members in brussels and seven here. i think that we need to rebalance the situation quickly and i thank you for taking this point of order into account so that we can quickly set up plenary sessions here in strasbourg.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the new general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021. i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
president budg. i am pleased that we were able to reach agreement on the 2021 budget fairly quickly in difficult circumstances. it has indeed been a very special year with covid-19, but of course also with very intense negotiations on the mff and on the recovery plan. this has contributed to putting the 2021 budget negotiation calendar under great pressure. these circumstances have forced the parliament, the council and the commission to adapt and to work efficiently. i would therefore like to thank both the rapporteurs from parliament and ambassador clauss from the council and commissioner hahn from the commission for their remarkable adaptability and realism in these negotiations. parliament has been constructive, but we remain vigilant. the transcripts of the agreements must be in accordance with the agreements. we have indicated in both the negotiations for the mff and the 2021 budget that we will continue to oppose misinterpretations. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the area of the environment and to increase the number of projects in the area of the environment. the additional investments in, for example, the trans-european transport networks and digital europe are meeting the expectations of eu citizens. i am sure that the rapporteurs will certainly deal with a number of other specific elements of the budgetary agreement. the focus on innovative and forward-looking programmes is also in line with the agreement on the multiannual budget. although i personally think - and i really want to emphasize this here - that the shift should have been more pronounced. europe can make a real difference on a global level if it wants to. by thinking ahead, by investing in education, in innovation, in research. europe can distinguish itself in areas where it can really add value. but above all, europe would be doing itself a great service, because of course it is precisely this kind of expenditure and investment that is so important for growth, job creation and competitiveness. after decades of let me say rather classic budgets, that shift in spending has been carefully employed. i would like to say that i think that the commission's approach should have been more explicit, but it is also remarkable that the negotiating team of this parliament has had to fight to preserve and strengthen forward-looking programmes. this means that there are still some entrenched policy choices that continue to demand attention and resources. just because we've always done it that way doesn't mean it has to stay that way. the european union must dare to question itself continuously and measure the effectiveness of policy options, objectively assess them and adjust them where necessary. i hope that in the years to come european policy-makers - and certainly the member states - will show the courage to play their cards, particularly in the areas of research, development and infrastructure. this brings me to a second observation. we can strengthen our innovative sectors by making the right policy choices and, of course, by also allocating the necessary budgets. but it also requires a strong overall strategy. for example, if we look at the position and the attitude of the big tech companies, the conclusion is obvious: the monopoly position of these giants is becoming increasingly problematic. honor where it 's due: commissioner vestager was one of the first to set up a number of beacons and to push back the boundaries, with varying success, but also with perseverance. they and the commission deserve all the credit for this. but the problem is clearly not the job, far from it. when i read and see that the five big tech companies today have over 500 billion euros almost 600 billion dollars of liquid assets, that's more than the gdp of my country belgium, where we are. that is huge, that is astounding, and that proves that these companies - and this is of course euphemistically put - do not operate in normal competitive conditions. instead of staring blindly at how these big boys can be taxed - you know, i have absolutely no problem with that, on the contrary, although it sometimes seems like a battle for symbols and perception - this problem must be tackled at its roots. a digital tax will not substantially change the landscape in that sector. in fact , i 'm not . in any event, at least part of that charge will be passed on, directly or indirectly, to the consumer, to the user. i am convinced that there is an urgent need to develop levers to maintain the necessary balances in all the innovative sectors. while we invest in our innovative startups and growers, they risk being undermined by these giants because they are being driven into a rut involuntarily. that is cynical, that is undesirable, and that is in any case directly contrary to the objectives of a europe for the future. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that we can join forces to continue working together on a forward-looking strategy for citizens and businesses.
the rapporteur. madam president, dear friends, there has been a lot of talk about the world after coronavirus. and if we are not able to radically change our politics, i fear that the world after will be like the world before, only worse. in 2020, we avoided collapse. thank you to angela merkel, emmanuel macron and all the heads of state who supported the recovery plan. thank you to all the diplomats, the commissioners, the senior officials who have been up all night negotiating this. without this plan, without the thousands of jobs that are protected, we would be very close to chaos. but we all know that nothing is settled. the combination of the health crisis, the social crisis and the climate crisis can quickly lead us to chaos. much remains to be done to build a new balance, a new model of prosperity. on friday, all eu leaders agreed on a new target: to cut co2 emissions by 55% by 2030. that's good. but we all know that to achieve this result, everything remains to be done. if we take into account the products imported from china, our co2 emissions have never decreased. our emissions, our carbon footprints have never gone down. so there's still a lot to do. and 2020, despite the economic crisis, may be the worst year for co2 evolution, because the wildfires have more than offset the decline in co2 associated with the economic crisis. friends, in 2020, we have avoided collapse. 2021 must be the year of renewal, of a new start for europe, of a new social reality, of a new ecological reality. and to finance this new situation, we need new financial means. the european commission itself says that to win the battle for climate and jobs, more than €600 billion of additional investment is needed every year. in its report adopted on 13 november, parliament proposed practical solutions to find these 600 billion, including five new own resources. he recalled that the financial transaction tax alone could bring in €57 billion a year, despite brexit and the economic crisis. 57 billion, that's more than the other four resources combined. parliament also called for the immediate resumption of enhanced cooperation with a group of pioneering countries to overcome the unanimity rule that is blocking negotiations. the good news is that in the budget agreement which was approved by the 27 member states on thursday, the european commission agrees with parliament's proposal. it reiterates that negotiations with a group of pioneering countries on the financial transaction tax can be relaunched in enhanced cooperation and completed by 2022. the commission says that if the negotiation is completed by 2022, it will propose to make this financial transaction tax an own resource for the whole union. the commission agrees with parliament's proposals to unblock the negotiations. this time, if a country wants to block the negotiation, it won't be able to. it does not require unanimity. and if the speculation tax can simultaneously pay off the common debt of the "next generation eu" and finance the climate and employment plan, whoever blocks the negotiation will have to explain to his voters that he prefers to lower pensions or health spending rather than taxing traders a little. friends, in 2021 europe needs a historic turning point. in my mind, i think the 2021 budget is good, but it does not live up to the challenges. i have said this for several months in front of you, in good conscience: if there is not 50 billion more each year for the budget, i will not be able to vote for it. i will not vote against either, i will abstain. this is the first time in the history of this parliament that a budget has been supported by six groups, and i thank them. i believe that in the coming months, with angela merkel, with antonio costa, we will be able to give birth to a new union. in 1950, it took schuman and adenauer only two weeks to create the european coal and steel community. i hope that in the next six months we will bring about the union for health, climate and employment. a new union financed by a tax on speculation.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by underlining how impressed i am that, despite the persistent uncertainty that clouded the budget negotiations, we were able to send a forceful signal that the european union can stand together for progress and prosperity. hence, i would like to congratulate the negotiators, in particular the two rapporteurs, mr larrouturou and mr chastel, and the german presidency, who were forcefully and well versed in the art of the compromise and made it finally possible. the agreement for 2021 is a forward—looking compromise, fully in line with the larger framework of the long-term budget for 2021 to 2027 and next generation eu, which will provide an unprecedented eur 1.8 trillion budget to help rebuild a post—covid—19 europe. the 2021 budget agreement not only fully respects the mff political agreement but also reflects both the parliament and council positions fairly. this budget will allow the union to mobilise significant funds for a continued eu response to the coronavirus pandemic and its consequences, to kick—start a sustainable recovery and to protect and create jobs. it ensures that we are able to invest in the future to achieve a greener, more digital and, finally, more resilient europe. i will now briefly run through the main elements of our agreement. overall commitments will be eur 164 billion and the overall level of payment appropriations will be eur 166 billion. it’s important that we also preserve flexibility in next year’s budget. since the uncertainty doesn’t end at the end of this year, we can be sure that we will also need the flexibility next year. this budget agreement ensures that we have that room for manoeuvre to face whatever awaits us in 2021. the agreement includes the entire package of pilot projects and preparatory actions proposed by the parliament, amounting to eur 72 million. it maintains our ability to fully finance the funding costs of next generation eu whilst reinforcing shared priorities, partially by reallocating and partially by making additional money available from the unallocated margins of the mff. overall, we agreed to reinforce the connecting europe facility (cef) for transport, eur 60 million, plus eur 60 million in digital europe, plus eur 26 million, which will benefit our green and digital transitions and our economic recovery alike. additionally, we reconfirm our commitment to a greener europe by the substantive reinforcement of the life programme: an additional eur 42 million. we will strengthen the justice programme, plus eur 3 million in the rights and values programme, plus eur 7 million. we also agreed to further reinforce the european public prosecutor’s office, thus strengthening the union’s ability to investigate, prosecute and bring to justice crimes against the eu budget, such as fraud and corruption, and we hope it can finally become operational soon. we further agreed to strengthen the fundamental rights agency, the european institute for gender equality, eurojust and eu-lisa. on the external policy side, we reinforced the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) and we increased our strategic communications capacity, as well as humanitarian aid. beyond the bare finances, five statements have been added. these highlight, amongst others, the priority to tackle child poverty and the urgent need to tackle the impact of the covid—19 crisis, with particular attention to sectors that are severely hit by the crisis, such as tourism and smes, and the people that are the most affected by the crisis, such as children and young people. additionally, we will also make the research commitment available again to the benefit of the new horizon europe programme. therefore, the famous article 50.3 of the financial regulations has been implemented, in line with the mff agreement. let me close by underlining once again how positive a signal this agreement and the agreement on the long-term budget are. they show the union’s ability to serve european citizens. so i am grateful for the compromise and the extra mile that all of you went to make this possible, and that we managed, may i say, to arrive at an agreement three days before the deadline. that could become a blueprint for the future, and i hope that this is not only a promise, but it could be repeated next year.
on behalf of the s&d group. (the beginning of the intervention was not made at the microphone) ... sustainable. the european parliament wanted a budget that would create the conditions for a better future for all european citizens, but many of the right-wing leaders of the member states did not want that. the council proposed a budget version that was not ambitious and even if we managed to achieve substantial increases in the last negotiations, the final version could have looked better. the over eur 160 billion must generate growth and jobs. the european parliament - and this was the priority of our political group and of mine as a member of the committee on budgets of the european parliament - has achieved significant increases for the new european programme for health, youth and education, as well as for research, digitalisation, the environment, agriculture, humanitarian aid and infrastructure. for a strong europe, we must allocate the resources we need at european level. our priority must be to ensure that european funds reach the beneficiary as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we all welcomed the lifting of the hungarian and polish vetoes with relief. this positive outcome will allow us to avoid starting 2021 with a budget of crisis, a budget that would not have allowed us to finance our new policies, our new priorities. so, dear friends, in less than three weeks we will begin a new cycle for europe: the europe of defence, the europe of health, the europe of the green and now the europe that does not sell out its values. 2021 will also be the year of the introduction of the first of a new series of own resources, the 'plastic contribution'. first time in 32 years. we owe it to the commission's proposal, commissioner, but also to the pressure of the european parliament. without that, i doubt we would have moved on. these are collective victories, and we must emphasize them. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has one final point to make. i note that the annual budget was adopted without difficulty. that's very good. but the multiannual budget has once again rolled out the red carpet to bargaining and national selfishness, because it is adopted unanimously. a real crossroads to find common interest. so i ask the question: when will unanimity in europe end? the psychodramas we suffer every seven years, i can't take it anymore! tomorrow's conference on the future of europe must put an end to this question.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, here we are: a 2021 budget with many advances €180 million more than the previous one. it is quite rare to see such an increase, particularly on environmental issues life programme, european environment agency , but also on transport. and also on an important issue: the issue of gender equality. but as we know, this first budget for 2021 is the first of a new budget cycle. and yet there are shortcomings which are too important in relation to the urgency of our action. the newly announced target of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is a new effort, but it is still largely insufficient. in this race against the clock, against climate change, against the loss of biodiversity, against the destruction of our so-called development model, we must go stronger and we must go much faster. from this point of view, it must be said at some point that this parliament and the european union can no longer accept being the plaything of conflicting interests of the states and the council, particularly in budgetary matters. if we want a federal europe, a powerful europe, a europe that weighs in the world's favour, we must have fiscal autonomy, budgetary independence. and that is the question of recovering our own resources. certainly, from 2021, there will be the plastic contribution. but that is nothing compared to the challenge of getting those who are currently avoiding taxes to pay. it is the carbon tax at the border, it is the tax on speculation and financial transactions, it is the tax on the digital giants, this is the great work that awaits us if we want to have the means of our ambitions and finally be able to drive the ecological and social transition that our continent needs.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here in strasbourg to discuss the proposals of the european initiative for the rescue of minorities, a plan which unfortunately fails to define the term 'national minority'. as a citizen of alsace, i can easily understand how important it is for the alsatians to preserve their historical language. this is the case in many french regions - brittany or corsica, to name a few - which contribute to the cultural and heritage wealth of france, in the same way as in other european countries. in france, we attach particular importance to the french language because we know how powerful a factor it is in assimilating and in national cohesion. nations have been built on a melting pot of local cultures, with multiple languages, which it is desirable to preserve. but we should not confuse ingrained culture with imported culture. the bengali communities in ireland or the iraqi communities in sweden should not be considered as national minorities. these proposals should not fall into the same trap as president macron's, who wants to introduce the arabic language in primary school. we are europeans, we are europe, and our role must be to preserve and promote european cultures.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the european commission has proposed to make 2021 the european year of rail. i'm all right. however, it is the european union, through its repeated failures, in defiance of democratic opposition, that is responsible for the destruction of this public service. total liberalisation and opening up to competition in the sector have drastically reduced the market shares of our national companies, leading to the closure of lines, the acceleration of rural desertification and the erosion of our territorial cohesion. you have forced the end of the french public rail service. you have forbidden the promotion of a national enterprise for public service missions. you have imposed this destructive pattern, with the active complicity of the right, the left and the pseudo-ecologists, all globalists. you have chosen 2021 because it is marked by several events, including the anniversary of the first ever rail link between paris and brussels and the 40th anniversary of the tgv. but in reality, 2021 marks the umpteenth year of disastrous management by the brussels technocracy, with the abandonment of rural territories or subcontracting that generates insecurity due to the lack of control of radicalisation. in 2019, the court of auditors painted a damning portrait of regional trains: deterioration in service quality, inadequate offers and constantly rising operating costs - the causes being the european union directives. where you intervene, you destroy. for years, the rassemblement national has defended french interests. we will continue to do so in the identity and democracy group, the only opposition in this house, and tomorrow, from the elysée palace, through the voice of marine le pen. the european union must stop imposing its deadly directives, relayed by its lackey emmanuel macron, and it must change its model to finally build the europe of nations, which we alone propose.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, our small and mediumsized enterprises are at the heart of the economies of our european nations. they account for more than 50% of the eu's internal imports. they are the main sources of employment in the countries of the union. they have skills that are often an ancient heritage passed down from generation to generation. they are also at the forefront of innovation, and french smes in particular are an extraordinary example. this heritage of our smes must be preserved and protected and we must promote it. unfortunately, these treasures of experience and creativity are in conflict with the commission's policy: incessant support for large groups, the permanent creation of ever more restrictive administrative and technical standards, absurd legal constraints, such as the prohibition on states having a voluntarist policy, under pain of contradicting the sacred rule of free and undistorted competition within the european market. here are some of the many obstacles facing these european forces. the results of this policy have been disastrous. the example of photonis, a french sme specialising in advanced military equipment, which is also innovative in terms of tests against the covid epidemic we are facing, has already been sold to the americans, without france being able to put in place a protectionist and national policy on these know-how that are essential to our sovereignty. a french-style small business act, which would have favoured our companies over those of other countries, would have prevented such a drift. the crisis has made it even more necessary. when we come to power in france, we will. this crisis, brought about by often incomprehensible restrictions by our governments, is having a severe impact on these companies. in france, the risk of failure of smes is estimated at 10%. europe is losing its vitality, preferring constant mobility to solidity, a world beyond the ground to national know-how. without protection at its borders, it has left the member countries to unfair competition. we must urgently regain our sovereignty in this area too.
in writing. for smes, 2020 has been a year of complex challenges and concerns. the pandemic has forced many businesses to abandon their businesses or suffer significant losses. many smes have stood out for their smart solutions and innovation to market their products or provide services in the context of a pandemic. this is a clear sign that european businesses are open to innovation and are flexible. all of this requires more confidence and faith in the future. the european union must instill hope, confidence and perspective in its new strategy for smes. we need to give businesses more freedom of decision and action, reduce the administrative burden and the dependence on various restrictions and regulations that inhibit entrepreneurship. i consider it very important that as a result of the digital revolution, more and more small and medium-sized enterprises have better access to digital solutions and services. this will require targeted investment by both member states and the eu in the development of digital infrastructure and services. i sincerely hope that, in combination with the measures of the recapitalisation and the next financial perspective, we will give a boost to europe's small and medium-sized enterprises, whose success is the foundation of the success of our entire economy.
the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality, which is not yet in force. i would like to inform you that, as has been the custom in our debates, there will be no catch-the-eye procedure or 'blue card' questions and, in addition, there are plans for interventions from a distance by our colleagues in the liaison offices.
a writer. the commission is not commissioner, it's nice to meet you for the first time. good luck with your term. ladies and gentlemen, this is about the ability of the european union to act. we all know that the trade situation has become more complicated, more difficult and that we are increasingly dealing with unilateral measures in the trade sector. and we are also now getting situations in many areas where trading partners are passing laws that ultimately have extraterritorial effects on our trading capacity. and this is a growing problem. we have an impact on financial service providers, insurance companies, quality assurance companies and sometimes even public authorities. sometimes there are entry bans for people from the european union with our partners - a whole series of indirect effects of sanctions imposed by law in other partner countries. and then, of course, there is the question of how we respond, and the clear answer should be that we go to the wto and see how we can do this within the framework of the world trade organization. however, there is no set of rules on extraterritorial effects. so we'll have to see what we have in our toolbox. and we have recently put a number of pieces of legislation in the toolbox to reinforce the capacity to act. we have, for example, renewed anti-dumping legislation, introduced investment screening and recently adopted enforcement legislation - three pieces of legislation that strengthen the capacity to act. but there is still a gap for these extraterritorial effects. we have a blocking statute from 1996. we started this when the united states imposed sanctions on cuba and there were fears of extraterritorial effects on european companies. the danger was actually eliminated only with the enactment of the blocking statute. the united states then withdrew its sanctions against the european companies. it doesn't work anymore. with respect to iran, we have seen the case where many companies that have fallen under this blocking statute - which basically states that european companies cannot be subject to the extraterritorial effects and sanctions - have been given exemptions from the blocking statute because they were, of course, economically stronger in doing business with the us than with iran. i have a whole stack of waiver applications in my office. so that doesn't apply. and also what we have introduced in the case of iran, instex, to create a transaction opportunity, a business opportunity between iran and european companies, that does not work either. so i think we need a little more. and there are still some conflicts on the horizon: the discussion about digital taxes, how to deal with internet companies, the question of 5g is there and of course the discussion about nord stream 2. i think we need to expand our toolbox in this respect. and we should - and i would like to hear this from the commission - see how we can actually design our financial instruments to reduce dependence on american and other international banks and of course also to push back the dollar as a trade currency also for european treaties, to become more independent of the dollar and to establish the euro as our currency. i think we also need to look at whether we can achieve this independence with eurobonds or other financial instruments, and perhaps also introduce financial instruments which are ultimately different from a normal bank and take a more foundation-based approach. i think we must also look at how we can further defend ourselves against coercive measures. in the area of the debate on enforcement legislation we discussed a new legislative proposal from the commission, a law to prevent coercive measures from third countries. i would also like to know, of course, how far the commission is in its thinking. so i think we need to strengthen the toolbox so that we can regain the european union's ability to act in the international context.
now it is my great pleasure to welcome commissioner mairead mcguinness. you have the floor to answer this oral question and you are very welcome.
member of the commission. – mr president, it’s a pleasure to be back in the chamber. this is a really serious issue. the chairman of the committee, bernd lange, my former colleague, has outlined really well what the situation is, so i’m going to talk you through the past, the present and, potentially, the future. it’s very true, as you’ve outlined, that in recent years, sanctions by third countries have caused severe adverse economic effects on certain eu economic operators who are conducting legitimate activities, and this is the case in relation to us sanctions against iran, cuba and russia, and these concerns have been raised at the very highest level, including with the statement of high representative / vice-president borrell on 17 july. outreach with the us administration and congress has also increased. these developments have shown the need for action, and the european union is taking steps to increase its resilience against extra-territorial sanctions. first, the eu has revived its instrument against the extra-territorial application of third-country sanctions. the blocking statute already referred to was adopted in 1996 and amended in 2018 after the us withdrawal from the joint comprehensive plan of action and currently applies to us sanctions against cuba and iran. it prevents the enforcement of respective us legislation, including us judgements or decisions based on these sanctions regimes, and furthermore it allows eu economic operators to recover resulting damages. the commission published guidelines on the blocking statute in 2018, and further guidance will be published early next year. as regards cuba, the commission is monitoring closely the situation following the reactivation of titles 3 and 4 of the helms-burton act. it provides support to eu economic operators in coordination with member states and issues guidance. in relation to iran, the commission is supportive of the instrument in support of trade exchanges (instex), an initiative of three countries initially – germany, france and the united kingdom – and more recently joined by belgium, denmark, the netherlands, norway, finland and sweden. its objective is to facilitate payments for legitimate trade between the european union and iran. while not a new instrument, instex is an important answer to the us sanctions which caters for the needs of eu financial operators. the commission is studying the operations and progress of instex to gauge whether it could serve as a blueprint for a similar initiative at union level. the commission is developing additional proposals to ensure that europe is more resilient to third countries’ extra-territorial sanctions. we will in early 2021 have a communication on strengthening the union’s open economic and financial autonomy. it will put forward measures to reinforce the eu’s toolbox against extra-territorial sanctions, including the blocking statute. it will also contain proposals to strengthen the resilience of key eu financial market infrastructures to extra-territorial sanctions. these measures are not directed against any third party; they are part of the union’s larger efforts to promote its open strategic autonomy, which is understood as reducing dependencies and enhancing multilateralism and the eu’s resilience, including against the effects of extra-territorial sanctions on eu operators. overall, the eu values close coordination on sanctions with international partners, including in the pursuit of shared objectives. where differences exist, the eu is ready to engage through a frank and open dialogue, to avoid unintended consequences on eu operators. i look forward to listening to the debate here this evening. i want to thank you for having this on your agenda. it is a very serious issue for us, and i believe that next year we will make progress on addressing this in a wider framework.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to start by saying that the extraterritorial reach of third-country sanctions does not only affect eu businesses, but it also undermines the eu’s economic and financial autonomy, and we should indeed protect the eu’s financial infrastructure, economic operators and eu policies against extraterritorial sanctions. i also trust that wider global use of the euro will reduce the exposure to external financial institutions and regulatory actions taken by other jurisdictions. there is also evidence that the implementation of eu sanctions often proves to be incomplete and uneven across member states. the eu can and should do more to both reduce its exposure to extraterritorial sanctions and strengthen its capability to counteract and ensure effective enforcement of the eu sanctions policy. for this, i believe the inter-institutional coordination of sanctions and countermeasures must be enhanced and we need a more systematic economic analysis of the effectiveness of sanctions. and finally, a comprehensive reform of the wto and its appellate body should make it better able to cope with sanctions.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i am very pleased to be speaking from strasbourg. freedom, sovereignty, conformity: these are the issues at stake. cuba, iran, accidental americans, nord stream, airbus, bnp paribas, alstom, peugeot, citroen... and the list is much longer than that. in the past, the european union has tried to protect itself with its blocking regulation or with the instex system. but is it not time to finally fight more effectively against the drift towards extraterritoriality? isn't it time we finally went from the offensive to the defensive? is it not time to finally provide ourselves with instruments which guarantee the free choice of our companies in accordance with international law? commissioner, you will answer that it is complicated, that it is difficult, that it is long... however, when there is political will, a path can be traced. then let's get to it! it is up to us to make our partners understand that we are finally going to play on equal terms: impose countermeasures, strengthen our power of coercion, create our own european financial control office. the european union is not seeking to declare a trade war. it is not about breaching our international commitments, but about being in a position to defend rules-based trade. finally, it is a question of guaranteeing respect for freedom, respect for the sovereignty of each individual, and that is where we are looking to you, madam commissioner.
madam president, while we defend access to water in the third world all day long, let me remind you that our own people are finding it increasingly difficult to access it. already 11% of europeans do not have adequate access to water. your worldview and your economic model have dried up the groundwater and made many rivers disappear. your progressive liberalism has already done a lot of damage to agriculture. today, it is the water resource that is threatened. in this area, the institutions that know best what to apply are the states, and the states must have the last word. i would like to see a clear and logical text, without liberal, pseudo-humanist or pseudo-ecological undertones. let us defend the common sense of the member states in the sustainable management of water. let us step up european mutual aid against fires and droughts. let us promote innovation and research. in particular, we are promoting artificial intelligence to help our respective countries make more cost-effective and, above all, greener decisions. despite these advances, too many points are to be excluded from these texts. what is this obsession with defending minorities all day long in all european texts? what is the link or the relation with access to water? at the same time, the most modest europeans no longer have access to it in some regions. we denounce the inclusion in this text of any form of liberalisation of the water market. and finally, let us reject sanctions for countries which do not comply with the water framework directive. the commission has no legitimacy to impose fines on sovereign and free states.
madam president, commissioner, access to water is a vital right. that is why the legislation we are discussing today, if implemented correctly, improves the lives of all of us. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. after all, science warns: environmental research reported microplastics in apples and carrots, and nature sustainability reported microplastics even in grain above ground. access to drinking water is ensured by high-quality infrastructure and this is why european investment in water is needed. in my city of thessaloniki, the local company eyath has reduced the loss from the pipes to 30% and is continuing with projects funded by the union, the aim being to involve the private sector. ladies and gentlemen, 1.8 million european citizens have called for new water legislation to make them feel safer, to improve the environment. we have today responded to this legislative challenge. it is now time for member states, water companies and local authorities to act immediately, using the help of the commission and knowing that water quality cannot be compromised.
i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted. the revision of the drinking water directive is a success. however, it is a success of the first european citizens' initiative right2water. i would like to thank the citizens who have initiated this initiative. they have shown that europeans can influence european politics outside the elections. the directive now requires that all people in the european union have access to clean drinking water. and this is above all a success of the citizens' initiative so thank you very much for that! i would like to express my disappointment at the council for not having taken the issue of access to drinking water seriously in the first place, and for having only paid attention to quality criteria. i think that was a disregard for the right2water initiative. but it's not just about quality, it's about access, because water is a human right. and that is why i am pleased that the directive has now succeeded in improving access. we are getting public drinking fountains throughout europe and member states are being asked to take all the necessary measures to enable disadvantaged groups to have better access to water. and the fact that this is still badly needed shows that 23 million people in the european union do not have access to a public water supply - that is a task for all of us, and we as parliament will look at it very carefully. but with the amendment we are also ensuring that drinking water in europe is safe and above all that it remains safe. we have even higher standards for quality. european drinking water now meets all who standards, and in the case of lead we are cutting the value in half - this is absolutely important and right. it is also important that we look particularly for microplastics and drug residues in drinking water. and one last sentence: at some point, drinking water treatment is no longer possible, at some point it reaches its limits. that's why we have to make sure that the water stays clean.
president. - mr commissioner, phosphate is a nutrient for life. without phosphate, we die. our potatoes, vegetables and fruit crops need phosphate, as do the fodder crops for our livestock. but the world's supply of phosphate is running out. it is estimated that there is still 80 to 200 years of phosphate available. a lot of the phosphate we use leaks out through our feces into the sewer and eventually disappears into the sea. this is from the nut. we need to close this loop. we can recover 25% of the phosphate we need from human waste and from our wastewater, but european legislation and regulations do not yet allow this. can the commission state when it will allow the reuse of phosphate from waste water?
madam president, the european union, by adopting the european framework directive in 2000, had a great foresight for this central challenge of the 21st century. the fact that the first citizen initiative is on this subject illustrates the awareness of citizens on this issue. the european framework directive finally affirms that water, a vital resource, is part of our common heritage and therefore requires the notion of sharing, respect for the good state of water bodies, the end of derogations and the coherence of public policies. we must be uncompromising and demand, for example, the 'polluter pays' principle. water management is actually a problematic daughter of the climate challenge. so we have to tackle climate change head-on. the recently passed climate law should help us improve the quantitative management of water. the green deal, the biodiversity strategy, the 'farm to fork' strategy, which aim at a 50% reduction in pesticides, a 20% reduction in synthetic fertilisers, and a 25% reduction in organic farming in agricultural areas by 2030, must help us to manage water resources in a better way. agriculture, which mobilises more than 50% of the freshwater resource, is both a victim of climate change, a culprit of climate change, and a solution to climate change, if it is accompanied by new directions. public policies, rather than trying to deal with the consequences of agricultural practices that are responsible for the qualitative and quantitative degradation of water bodies, must, in line with the green deal and with contemporary challenges, prefer to tackle the causes, the roots of the problem by supporting the transition to agriculture that respects water resources, with a zero pollution objective. the recovery plan and the cap are not up to the challenge, the challenge, the objective. they have not yet been fully validated, so there is still time to achieve these consistencies in our public policies. we must have the audacity and the courage.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many of us this morning are applauding the very good work that has enabled the adoption of this transitional regulation, particularly in this parliament. i'm with you on that. some - and i am one of them - would have wished that we had set ourselves a little more ambition at the beginning of this process, by seeking to set some milestones for the future cap from this transition phase. the majority did not want it and we did it only marginally. i am, however, pleased with the solid work that has been done and the security that this regulation will bring to farmers for the next two years, two years which will obviously be very necessary to finish preparing the future cap. i also welcome the inclusion in this regulation of the agricultural part of the recovery plan, building on the current architecture but shifting support to the most relevant measures: support for young farmers, investments, without however weakening the environmental ambition of the cap. finally, i commend the negotiators' tenacity, which has enabled them to maintain a much-needed level of support for the posei programme, which was threatened with a weakening that would have severely penalised the outermost regions concerned. farmers, legislators and member states are now in a calm position to finish the work on the next cap. we shall be able to take the time to defend properly the positions of this parliament in the trilogue.
mr president, i wanted to speak today about the transitional fund for 2021. i am pleased to see that our institution - the european parliament - and all the european institutions have reached a compromise agreement to maintain posei, the programme of specific options for remoteness and insularity. i also welcome this victory for overseas agriculture, for the thousands of direct and indirect jobs that depend on it, and for all the sectors that work with agriculture. our french overseas departments of guadeloupe, martinique, réunion, french guiana and mayotte were in great need of it. now, i would like to warn this house that the co-financing agreement to maintain the annual budget for posei for the next two years will have to be maintained afterwards. and we shall have to do it together, colleagues. let us not forget that thousands of jobs, families and farmers in the five overseas departments depend on this aid, which is vital for us, the islands. the co-financing of the posei budget between the member states of the european union and its supplementary budget must guarantee us this fund, which helps us to finance each agricultural sector such as sugarcane, bananas, diversification, livestock, agro-processing. europe must support the outermost regions, which are island regions and remote from the european continent. i am counting on your support, ladies and gentlemen, which will be indispensable in two years' time on this matter. otherwise we will not be able to develop our agriculture in the five overseas departments.
mr president, a few days ago a scientific study published by the european parliament showed that agricultural practices were incompatible with the objectives of the green deal for europe. however, you propose that we continue the same policy for two years with this transitional regulation without any change or new direction. this is €111 billion, or one tenth of the eu budget, which will be wasted again. worse still, the common agricultural policy that will come into force in 2023 will exacerbate this trend. scientific studies are multiplying to say this, but you remain deaf. tens of thousands of citizens are mobilizing through the youth-led climate petition, but you're still deaf. how many ecological disasters, farmer suicides, farm closures or species extinction will it take for you to finally act? stand up to the climate emergency: let's withdraw these bad plans and use the two years of transition to pave the way for an agricultural and food policy that respects people, the planet and animals.
mr president, dear friends, one of our commitments here is to leave no one behind. it is good to say it, but it is better to do it, especially when it comes to defending and protecting the men and women who work in difficult conditions in our remote territories, in our overseas territories. the negotiations for the outermost regions were difficult. i would like to say that we have sometimes doubted our common will to respect the specific features of the ors. i want to warn you against the feeling of abandonment that could devastate the hearts of our planters and farmers. our farming world is brave and we are proud of our local produce. of course, as usual, we have just heard the utterly unjustified self-satisfaction of the far right. everyone knows exactly who has done what, and i want to thank the pro-european members, our rapporteur and the french government, who have put a lot of effort into the posei dossier. a temporary solution has been found. there is still work to be done to consolidate this system. the road from farm to fork also passes through the overseas countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, their teams, the chairman of the committee on regional development and all those involved in this react-eu dossier. the fact that we can vote on this dossier before the end of the year shows that the european parliament, even in difficult working conditions, is able to work quickly on solutions for europe's regions, for europe's citizens, in order to give them targeted support in the crisis. with react-eu, we underline the important role of cohesion policy as a crisis instrument, but also the importance of economic, social and, above all, territorial cohesion in the european union. react-eu is an important sign that we are not leaving anyone behind in solidarity with all regions and citizens. it is a flexible, temporary crisis instrument to address the economic and social consequences of the pandemic and is intended to be used by member states in the most flexible and targeted way possible, where the funds are most urgently needed: up to 100% eu support also retroactively. it is important - the greens have also stressed this in the negotiations - to set a concrete framework for the efficient and high-quality allocation of funds, for example by emphasising the social aspect of the crisis, using funds for youth unemployment and crossborder cooperation, or by anchoring a gender perspective and strengthening the partnership principle, i.e. involving regional and local administrations, the social partners and civil society. the greens are of course also particularly concerned about strengthening climate protection and thus emphasizing the so-called do no harm principle in climate protection, that is, the exclusion of climate-damaging investments in react-eu. as is the time limit of the programme: react-eu is a short-term, targeted crisis aid for member states, not a competitor to the regular eu cohesion policy with its high quality standards and strong sustainability objectives. however, a major drop in green spending is the too low target of only 25% in the current draft. i think you can't talk about crisis management in 2020 without taking the green deal to the climate crisis and putting in place a stronger, more binding climate spending target. but overall, and i want to emphasise this, react-eu is an important instrument of european solidarity and support for europe's regions and citizens, support for the green deal, digitalisation in a socially just way and a gender-equitable development of the european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. for months, the regions have been waiting for the european blockbuster of the coronavirus crisis. now we finally have the react eu programme. it's hope for healthcare workers, for businesses that are shutting down, for students who need to learn digitally, and for artists whose playgrounds are still closed. i regret that the governments in the council have cut the funds before the negotiations have even begun. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a joint debt collection was overdue, but she's got scratches. we wish we had more courage here. the commitment to the eu budget now requires a bold own resources strategy, and i ask: where is the european financial transaction tax, where is the digital tax, where is a wealth tax on those who amass billions? and last but not least, we now have a rule of law mechanism that hardly deserves the name and whose objectives have long been pursued by the olaf authority. the fight for power in the european council must finally stop, because it is a driving force behind the crisis of confidence in democracy in the eu.
madam president! the covid-19 pandemic has caused a giant shock to the european and global economies. many people were often forced to stop or significantly slow down their business activities almost overnight. this crisis has become a very important test for the european union. it is a test of how quickly and effectively it can support the people of europe at a time of great difficulty for them. i am convinced that react-eu will make it possible to show our citizens that they are not alone. i think it is very important that the funds available under the fund support, among others, those most affected by the crisis, namely tourism and culture, and small and medium-sized enterprises, or support health systems. i also believe that, with high advance payments, 100% co-financing of expenditure and more flexible programming and implementation, react-eu will allow for an effective and rapid reduction of the negative economic impact of the pandemic. there is no doubt that the fight against the effects of the covid-19 pandemic is a long-term task. i therefore think it is right to propose that additional resources should also be available in 2023 and 2024 if necessary, because then we will also be forced to protect jobs in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the covid-19 pandemic has hit us hard. the economies of our regions are on their knees, our health systems are under strain, thousands of jobs are lost or at risk. our territories were waiting for a european response of solidarity capable of accompanying their action. our union has not been slow to respond, and it has responded quickly through cohesion policy - i applaud its president - which has once again proved to be a modern and flexible tool. the additional resources - €47.5 billion - provided by react-eu will strengthen the resilience of these european regions. this will enable them to invest in their health systems, save jobs and support smes in difficulty. the full flexibility left to member states in spending these resources will make it possible to target the territories and sectors most affected by this crisis. the co-financing rate, set at 100%, avoids putting a burden on the public budgets of the member states, which are already under enormous pressure. europe is here, ladies and gentlemen, and once again it is proving that it is built in crises. thanks to react-eu, our territories can look to the future with more hope. we are leaving no one behind and we are showing once again that we will get out of this crisis together.
madam president, dear elisa ferreira, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, i would first of all like to warmly congratulate the co-rapporteurs, constanze krehl and andrey novakov, and the whole regi committee on the very exceptional work they have done on this regulation. i also want to thank commissioner ferreira and the german presidency. i believe that our policy has demonstrated its ability to be reactive in times of crisis, to be more flexible in order to provide assistance as close as possible to the needs. we also took up the challenge that many considered impossible: adopting the 'cohesion' package in time and concluding five negotiations opened at the same time with the added value given to the regulation by the european parliament. with almost €370 billion for 2021-2027, plus stimulus funds, cohesion policy is central and regions can now move forward safely for the 2021-2027 programming period. i think we can now say that the recovery plan begins with the adoption of react-eu and i think we can also be proud of the contribution of cohesion policy, the policy of solidarity which has helped to build europe and will also help to rebuild it.
madam president! today we are discussing the react-eu programme, the first action of the recovery plan package, which demonstrates that cohesion policy has been at the heart of the fight against the covid-19 pandemic from the very beginning. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, in order to ensure the consistent application of the principles of proportionality and impartiality set out in this regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i am confident that with eur 47,5 billion earmarked, react-eu will continue and further expand the necessary measures for crisis response and resolution. in this context, it is particularly pleased that the programme does not provide for a pre-determined breakdown by region, which will allow member states the appropriate flexibility to direct funds to where they are most needed, while allowing member states to justify expenditure incurred until 31 december 2023. react-eu also provides for the smooth and rapid mobilisation of investments without additional bureaucratic conditions such as preconditioning, thematic concentration requirements and performance framework. i believe that react-eu will contribute to the green, digital and resilient recovery of society after the covid-19 crisis by providing additional resources to the already existing cohesion policy programme. thank you and a big hello from ljubljana.
dear chair, i'm glad you're here after a productive meeting we had yesterday with the members of the searica intergroup. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. and it's frightening to think that this pandemic could cause as many as 100 million new poor people in europe. i therefore support the rapporteur's efforts to extend this programme beyond 2022 for a further two years, if necessary, in line with the other instruments. the social consequences of this crisis on society should be emphasised. the socialist and democratic club puts special emphasis on them. i welcome the allocation of additional funds to the most vulnerable groups and children, the improvement of social inclusion and the eradication of poverty. as you can imagine from yesterday's discussion, we particularly support respecting the specific character of the islands and other territories as set out in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. due to their dependence on often unsustainable tourism as their main source of income, the islands have been further affected by the consequences of the pandemic. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. and the country i come from, croatia, will have 800 million euros available as a welcome aid. i agree with the commission's recommendations that these funds should be directed to the most severely affected geographical areas in line with the economic recommendations under the european semester. these include: improving healthcare, strengthening labour market and social protection measures, boosting business liquidity and investing in sustainable development. the effectiveness of all the available resources will of course depend first and foremost on our willingness to make the most of the reforms proposed. in conclusion, this crisis is a huge challenge, but also a great opportunity for the sustainable development of a digital europe and a more resilient economy, and that is why we are not using the recovery funds to maintain the status quo but to find new and better solutions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can be particularly proud to vote for this react-eu plan, which shows both the european union's capacity to react to the crisis and the relevance of european funds to invest as closely as possible to the needs of europeans. many members, including myself, have enabled react-eu to support culture and tourism. it is now imperative that the authorities managing european funds seize this opportunity and also make it known to all local, city and regional authorities as widely as possible. tourism is dead and many local economies depend on it. culture is being hit hard and, once again, action must be taken to ensure that theatres, museums and festivals and those who promote them survive this period. we must urgently save these sectors and those who make them.
madam president, i am sure you will call this unanimity 'historic' in the face of the release of emergency funds for a european economy brought to its knees by the health crisis. how could it be otherwise when every nation is afraid of the publication of the latest figures on unemployment, poverty, social plans, debt or the closure of businesses? this is a new situation, a new device. after the european union's missed appointment with the sanitary war, it was necessary to renew the coat of arms of this cold institution. you are talking about allocating specific, immediate and extraordinary means to reach the real economy quickly. yet, quick, you were not. for those companies that have already closed their doors, there will be no retroactivity. and if you gave up the environmental condition to allocate these emergency funds, you couldn't help but slip your old obsessions into it. you are therefore deploring the fact that the single market, your holy relic, has had to endure the tightening of borders during the health crisis. if only this were true and if only some countries, including my own, france, had hurried to close their borders to the outbreaks of this virus to avoid sinking into the disease, and thus into the lockdown and the crisis! another obsession is the concern to welcome and protect illegal immigrants. even when the programmes are aimed at saving europeans, we must still think of welcoming those who come to destabilise us. so do not rely on today's unanimity: we are not fooled by this gift of tens of billions. in some ways, your gift is like the kiss of death. it is a great deal for our european economies, but is it not also the price you have set for yourself to accelerate your domination over our national economies and our lives? let us hope that this emergency fund, which we cannot refuse in view of the gravity of the economic and social crisis, is a real gift and not a pact with the worst.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr borrell, if i were superstitious, i would end up believing that the eastern partnership is bad luck. the eastern partnership was established in 2020 following events in georgia, the wounds of which are still not healed, and has gone from disappointment to disappointment. from the implosion of ukraine in 2014 to the painful clash between armenia and azerbaijan in recent weeks, the least that can be said is that the eastern partnership, for the time being, has not led to peace. it is even a certainty for the countries that are members of it that they will see more and more interference from the european union in their affairs. in moldova, it is found that, in the end, grant agreements sometimes depend on the outcome of elections. in belarus, the european union has decided to go faster and, according to some of our colleagues, an internet poll is now enough to decide who won the presidential elections. but i don't think it really matters. when we are satisfied with a foreign policy that applies sanctions, i would like to ask you, mr high representative, what has been the result of these sanctions? russia has been under sanctions since 2014. now it is belarus. seriously, do any of us think that's gonna change their minds? the answer is no. we have never seen sanctions bring a country to its knees. isn't it time we had another dialogue? because i believe that within the european union all our nations are equal, but some of them make financial and human efforts to maintain an independent foreign and military policy. others, apparently, have decided to follow nato's lead. as such, hearing leading figures in the german cdu reject the very idea of strategic autonomy from nato gives a true picture of reality. that is why we cannot be satisfied with the eastern partnership, which for us is in fact an instrument for distributing aid to these countries, but which unfortunately has not produced any real results in the last ten years.
madam president, the european union hoped in 2009 that the eastern partnership, which includes in particular azerbaijan, would allow the establishment of common values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. this circle of friends, as former commission president romano prodi wished, was to be created by the miraculous virtues of free trade. today, azerbaijan and its president are forcibly occupying a territory that armenian history has wanted, and every day that passes brings its share of massacres, looting by azerbaijani troops and militiamen. the conquering and belligerent turkish president erdoğan can say without shame that azerbaijan's historic struggle against armenia is not over. it is time, madam president, to suspend as soon as possible all the benefits granted to azerbaijan under our foreign policy, starting with the visa facilitation agreement. if europe is so concerned about its gas interests that it refuses to raise the tone, let it courageously defend its member states in the eastern mediterranean against the repeated aggressions of turkey.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let's highlight what we do. we have given priority to humanitarian aid to mozambique. the directorate-general for civil protection and european humanitarian aid operations (echo) has allocated more than 14 million in humanitarian aid to mozambique this year. five million have been allocated specifically to the population affected by the conflict in the area. for us, cabo delgado is a priority area of action, but think that the demand for aid has grown exponentially in recent months. in may, the united nations forecast that they would need 35 million euros and now they are asking for 250 million euros. i'm sure they do, but our budget is not expandable like a balloon that you blow into. we do not have 250 million euros available; if we did have it... you have also asked why we are not more active, as always, and why we are not sending aid which the government of mozambique has requested. well, things aren't that clear. we are waiting for the mozambican government to give us the green light to send a mission of security experts, who have been appointed since november and are ready to go to mozambique as soon as they give us permission. there have been talks with the government, which is undecided whether it prefers our experts or prefers bilateral relations with some european union countries. we have done our duty: we have exchanged letters and petitions with the mozambican government and our experts are ready to go there, they are appointed! we just need your permission. but look, let's not close our eyes to reality. you know it very well and have taken part in this debate because you know it and are interested in it. but mozambique is a country in deep financial crisis, with a debt level exceeding 110% of its gross domestic product; it has only been able to sustain itself thanks to massive aid from international donors; it has had serious problems of corruption and problems of government takeover of companies. the international monetary fund has stopped its financial assistance programme and the international community has reduced its community support. nor can it be said that everything that is happening in mozambique is, as some say, a mere extension of the movements of so-called islamist terrorism. well, part of it is true; the armed violence in northern mozambique has been, from the beginning, driven by growing poverty and inequality and disconnection with a state that cannot provide basic goods to the population. but there are governance problems, there are traffic problems, there are problems... think of mozambique as a country that has a hundred trillion cubic feet of natural gas -- proven reserves -- it's the third largest natural gas reserve in africa, after nigeria and algeria. you can imagine that this raises for the citizens a feeling of alienation, of saying 'we are a rich country and we live in poverty', and their expectations are frustrated by lack of development and misgovernment, or serious problems of governance. we are there to help to the extent of our abilities, but mozambique's needs go far beyond the operational capabilities that our budget gives us. i say to you here what i said before about your demands for muscle intervention in armenia and azerbaijan: we have what we have, and what we have, we use. and if suddenly the needs are multiplied by ten, my budget is not multiplied by ten. we're willing to send missions, but we need the government to accept them. yeah, i don't have time to go everywhere. i don't have time to go to mozambique because either i couldn't travel or when i travel i have to attend to other needs. and i do not think it is a bad idea for the portuguese foreign minister to be present in mozambique on my behalf - portugal is the country that will hold the presidency - just as i have asked the finnish minister to go to ethiopia, and i will continue to ask my colleagues in the foreign affairs council to help me in europe's international representation, because i cannot be everywhere. but they can help me - and a lot - and so they will contribute to creating a more common foreign policy, more appropriate for all countries, because they are involved in it. and i hope - i am sure of it - that the presence of minister augusto, my friend augusto, in mozambique will contribute to us knowing the reality better and to boost more cooperation with the government and to better target our resources, always scarce for the many needs that have manifested in this year 2020, with covid-19 and without covid-19. in the case of mozambique, it's not a covid-19 problem, but covid-19 has made it worse. it is a chronic problem of lack of good governance, of development, of poverty and inequality, and of armed conflict. and all this can only be resolved through concerted action with the international community, in which the european union participates to the extent of our capabilities.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, 25 years ago, i was there. the barcelona declaration set the goal to create an area of peace and shared prosperity around the mediterranean. the barcelona process is 25 years old. what have we achieved and what are the remaining challenges and our priorities for the future? well, i don’t want to be gloomy today, but i have to say that the situation in our southern neighbourhood has in some aspects worsened. we haven’t achieved some of our objectives, and the challenges have been growing faster than our collective response to them. let’s face reality. the challenges have been growing faster than our capacity to respond to them. in defining our response, we are not starting from scratch. we have a vast array of political dialogues and grassroots work undertaken over the last 25 years with the parliamentary assembly of the mediterranean, which you are now chairing. it was created during my mandate as president of this house and is an extremely valuable institutional framework, but we have to seize the new opportunities, the need to build more resilience and to fight the pandemic, and to increase trade and boost development. we had a ministerial meeting with our southern neighbours in barcelona last november and this discussion gave us some ideas that i would like to convey to you. first, we need to have an inclusive approach as we develop greater economic autonomy. some prefer to say sovereignty. i don’t mind what it is, but it needs to be more engaging on climate change and digitalisation. we use these two words so much that we are going to lose them. second, we need an investment plan, building on the success of the external investment plan, but the needs are so big that we cannot expect to fulfil all of them with public money. we need private engagement to create jobs, especially for youth. we should answer the calls of these countries. it’s time to act. we need to speak with one voice. often we don’t do that and we pay the price of our divisions. i want to stress the need to focus our help on their youth. they need a peaceful and prosperous future. the demographic trends show them becoming younger and younger at the same time that we are becoming older and older, and this is going to create a gap that will push migration. the only way of facing that is to boost development at the same pace. but we don’t have adequate funding. we must admit that we don’t have enough resources from the national budgets. we absolutely need to develop private investment. finally, most of the regions cannot be addressed only bilaterally. they have to increase their regional and subregional cooperation. only 5% of the trade among the countries of north africa is trade among themselves. they don’t trade among themselves. at the same time, the gap in revenue per head is increasing. i think it’s now ten times higher in the north than in the south. if you compare both trends – the trends on revenue per head and the trend on demography – it is clear that we are going to create a big incentive for migration that, i repeat, can only be faced by increasing massively investment in the region. then there is more bad news. the price of oil has been decreasing, and for some countries which depend a lot on oil exports this has created a big structural deficit on their public accounts. if it is just a matter of the conjuncture – a couple of years – they can resist, but if it becomes a structural issue and the price of oil remains low for a long period of time then the economic situation will be unsustainable. this is one of the consequences of the big shift that climate change policies will create on the wealth of nations. the stock of oil is a wealth that depends on its price, and its price depends on demand, and demand depends on the climate policy that we are going to follow. so we have to be ready to help diversify the economies of some of these countries and so they are not strongly dependent on oil exports, as is the case for some of them. in any case, we have to be more committed to our partnership with the mediterranean. it has to be stronger than ever because it is needed more than ever and, 25 years after the barcelona declaration, in barcelona in november, all the states from the northern and the southern mediterranean represented there reaffirmed this commitment. i am sure it will have the help and the support of the european parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr high representative, mr borrell, i have to say today that i agree with you, which i am sure you will appreciate. i totally agree. and i think that this european union, i think that these institutions need to become much more aware and pay attention to the phenomena that are happening in our southern neighbourhood. just as mr borrell, i and many of our mediterranean colleagues are paying attention to the pressing problems in belarus, moldova and ukraine, i ask my colleagues and, above all, the president of the european parliament - who is also a mediterranean - to pay more attention to the problems in morocco, libya and tunisia. finally, countries and situations which are currently making the european response, the fight against terrorism, immigration and the economy very complicated, also at world level. these are all issues on which we have to work from within this european union. and do not doubt, mr borrell, that the european people's party and i will support you in any way that this matter can be expanded.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, mr high representative, yes, the 25th anniversary of the barcelona declaration creates a momentum for an in—depth reflection on european union strategic objectives and engagement in the region. this anniversary also comes at a time of great disruption for the region, compounded by the unprecedented global health crisis with severe economic and social impacts. the covid—19 pandemic is a stark reminder of the need for tangible and coordinated cooperation across both shores of the mediterranean. in this context, it’s crucial to relaunch and strengthen strategic relationships with the southern neighbourhood countries. we are looking forward to the joint communication on the renewed partnership for the southern neighbourhood. it’s crucial to reinforce common bridges and elaborate solutions to transform traditional and new challenges into opportunities for both sides of the mediterranean. lastly, we have to create strong synergies with the ndici instrument and to ensure that this instrument will be able to provide adequate support for shared priorities and creation of area of prosperity.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is clear that our policy towards our southern neighbours has been very poor. lack of ambition, political will and institutional creativity - in short, a minimum service for the euromed area. a little help, a lot of soothing speeches, and above all an accommodation with a generalized authoritarian drift and a flagrant diplomatic absence. the european union cannot be held responsible for the tragic failure of democratic movements, but it should have done its part to speak to the people and support them. mr high representative, dare to dream with me of a euromed policy that meets the aspirations of our neighbours today and the challenges of tomorrow. i dream for both our shores of a grand plan that puts social, cultural, environmental and values at its heart, that targets young people and people rather than the worn-out and delegitimized elites, that makes our mediterranean a sea of exchange and hope rather than a graveyard of migrants and their dreams. finally, let us put our diplomats at the service of a decisive contribution by the union to the shamefully prolonged conflicts in palestine and western sahara.
mr president, mr josep borrell, 25 years ago the barcelona process set high ambitions for the euro-mediterranean partnership. twenty-five years later, his birthday is being celebrated in relative secrecy. but the efforts were made, the projects carried out. but the present situation calls for both modesty and a stronger determination. modesty, because our common sea is crossed by crises. the enthusiasm of the arab spring has often been dampened, human rights too often flouted, and the role of women insufficiently recognised. the syrian tragedy, the libyan crisis, the tensions in lebanon and the eastern mediterranean are all happening at the very tip of europe. we have to do more and do better. the crises in the southern mediterranean have all had an impact on europe. we have a deep interest in more democracy, more stability, more exchanges between our civil societies. the european council has just taken it up. so, mr high representative, i ask you: let us recapture the spirit of barcelona, which i am sure is dear to your heart. whether we are from the north or the south of the mediterranean, we not only share a common history, we share a common destiny.
mr president, 25 years into the barcelona process, our assessment cannot be positive. the mediterranean is too much a space of divergence rather than integration, of huge socio-economic disparities instead of shared progress, it’s a deadly place where migrants drown, much to our shame, and it’s one of the places that will be hardest hit by climate change. as the challenges are too great not to address them, it’s time to revive the spirit of barcelona and move the mediterranean agenda forward, an agenda that should focus on specific projects that bring about economic progress and reform, but also on issues of democracy, human rights and the fight against corruption. as the arab spring showed, but also the ongoing protest, many people in the southern neighbourhood hope for both economic and political inclusion. our focus on stability and security tends to forget those very legitimate aspirations, and in the end, we all know that there won’t be any real stability on the shores of the mediterranean without social progress and political openness.
mr president, there is no other way but to cooperate in the mediterranean, where the challenges are most acute, from climate change to migration flows, pandemic issues, but also security issues. as president of the political committee for the mediterranean, i can confirm that we need resources to work constructively in a mediterranean cooperation centred on energy and with common rules on international law and respect for the sovereignty of states. however, i must be honest. the policy of appeasement in the face of turkey's neo-ottoman expansionism is not met with verbal condemnation. it requires leaders in the european union who put the interests of the european union and its principles above the state interests of their countries. the failure in this area is obvious, not because there are no tools, but because there is no leadership. this will go down as a dark page in history and the prospect for all of us is huge.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very serious on this anniversary. the so-called 'pragmatic' approach of the european union is deplorable. with 60,000 prisoners of conscience and a poverty rate that has jumped by almost 30 percent since 2015, egypt's example is painful. it is urgent that human rights should once again be the basis of our cooperation, allowing for the development of sectoral programmes tailored to the needs of each country. it should also be remembered that the effectiveness of an undertaking depends on its ability to punish breaches. the coherence of external policies is nowhere to be found. today, despite the supposed fight against immigration, terrorism, investment and arms sales are flourishing, regardless of any considerations. europe must contribute to a prosperous and peaceful future for the mediterranean. let us stop turning a blind eye, stop our criminal migration policies, and support a redistributive and inclusive green economy!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, winter has begun, and as europe prepares to celebrate the end of the year, european leaders have decided to tell us a nice christmas story. once upon a time, there was a historic multiannual budget and recovery plan that, with a magic wand, would save europe, halt climate catastrophe, protect human rights and end the crisis. so, with christmas coming up, you'd like to believe it. but your fable unfortunately distorts reality and deliberately misleads the public. a beautiful story that ignores a reality that must be restored. on democracy, first. you present yourselves as knights of human rights protecting europe against the forces of evil. but whereas our parliament had demanded a mechanism that was indispensable to uphold the rule of law, you gave in to the blackmail of the far right by agreeing to push it back and weaken it. little red riding hood was eaten by the wolf orbán. the respite granted to hungary and poland will be a case law for all those who embark on the path of an authoritarian drift, such as macron's france, which organizes the impunity of police violence and brutally challenges the freedoms of worship, association and information with its laws on global security and separatism. then we'll talk about the social crisis. once upon a time, the wise men, emmanuel macron and angela merkel, showered the grateful people of europe with gifts. but honestly, how disappointed will they be when they open the presents under the tree? the 16 billion euro misery bill will do nothing: the multiannual budget loses more than 200 billion compared to the demands of our parliament and is even far below the commission's initial proposal. this is the same amount of new investment in agriculture, education, research, ecology, health. the recovery plan is conditional on the implementation of the austerity and neo-liberal recommendations of the european semester. the financial transaction tax, like any other initiative to make the crisis profiteers pay, is sent to the greek calends. so, the colorful packaging hides mostly poisoned gifts from father fouettard. but the tale does not end there. on climate, you tell us the extraordinary adventure of a european union at the forefront of a noble quest to save the planet. but your target of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is already below what parliament had adopted. worse, it is also incompatible with the paris agreement, which scientists say requires a target of at least 65%. not to mention, of course, your accounting gimmicks that allow you to deduct carbon sinks, like forests, while ignoring the climate footprint of our imports. so, it was a pretty good trick. on human rights, on the social crisis, on the climate, he was once the european union's dream hero, ambitious and progressive, fighting proudly on the side of the good against the bad. but frankly, no one wants to be lulled into sleep by the european sand merchant with that cute, crazy fairy tale anymore, even at christmas. and i got a scoop for you: we stopped believing in the liberal santa for a long time. so, yeah, stop treating us like children.
madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unlike mrs aubry, i am confident that europe will be able to move forward with budgetary power during this recovery. let us be proud of it, because it is the result of the will of those who believe in it, it is the result of the will of the pro-europeans. this is also our result, this budget, this timetable for own resources: johan, josé manuel, jan, margarida, rasmus, thank you very much for your help. but, dear friends, we must remain lucid. europe is torn from within. it is being pulled from the inside by those who want to get rid of the common rules, but who are willing to accept our money - that's fine. i'll be very clear about the rule of law. i hear the far right and the purveyors of fake news tell us that to refuse the rule of law is to refuse the quotas for the reception of migrants. but it has absolutely nothing to do with migration and you know it! you're entrenching yourself behind this baseless allegation to advance your hidden agenda, which is to undermine our democracies. because, yes, it is about our democratic values enshrined in our treaties: human dignity, freedom, justice, equality, democracy, plurality, non-discrimination. those who oppose this mechanism for the rule of law are against all these values. and i say that those who are against these values should not receive money from the european union to get rid of them, neither in their country nor in this parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations have resulted in this proposal for an agreement, which we must approve or reject. for me, there are two lessons. the first is that the european parliament has taken the measure of its responsibilities by thinking of a budget that is powerful, with powerful own resources and with democratic control. so parliament has done its job. the second is that the council, i.e. the states, have not lived up to the ambition of the meps. but without a strong budget, financed by fair taxation - the financial transaction tax, the tax on financial levies, the carbon tax with a sufficient volume - europe will remain a giant with feet of clay and its future will be threatened. in the days to come, it will be time for parliament to take full advantage of the power that must be itss and for the council and the member states to cease being obstacles to the development of the union.
madam president, the council's conclusions leave a bitter taste in the mouth for some unresolved questions. we are facing a recovery plan, but this recovery plan also poses many problems. first, an economic problem, because we are creating new debt in an unstable environment. secondly, there is the question of justice for future generations, because this agreement does not set the conditions for repayment. and, mr president-in-office, it is not an insult to you to consider that in seven years' time there is little chance that you will still be here. is it really generosity to agree to a debt that we leave to our successors to settle? finally, a major democratic problem, because i hear the members of the liberal group opposite us, mr macron's group, who were at the initiative and who are happy and applauding that this additional budgetary integration paves the way for a european federal state. but are the citizens of europe aware of this? do they hear your applause? in fact, there is a major problem here because all this is not being democratically assumed before the citizens of our countries. unfortunately, it is very likely that instead of creating a solution to the economic crisis, this recovery plan is helping to open up the new field of a democratic problem. we have a major task ahead of us, which is to ensure that at least some economic, industrial rationality is allocated to this plan. madam president of the commission, we are counting on your work to ensure that this money is invested with the future prosperity it will generate in mind, so that those who follow us tomorrow can at least make this recovery plan an opportunity to strengthen the savings they will need to bear the additional burden we are once again transferring to them.
in writing. this morning's debate, the joint discussion on the conclusions of the european council of 10 and 11 december 2020, looks like a toolbox containing, in a jumble, the most diverse ideas in order to avoid the important issues in the end. and there are many other irritating topics: 1) the complacency of the european union in the face of turkish arrogance; 2) contracts drawn up by the european commission for the purchase of vaccines, the negotiated price of which is unknown, and the exemption from liability clauses which would be granted to pharmaceutical companies; 3) the question of the mutualisation of the european union's debt provided for in the recovery plan and a financing method explicitly excluded by articles 310 and 311 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 17 of the financial regulation. instead, we prefer to draw public attention to the alleged violations of the rule of law in poland and hungary, while turning a blind eye to the fact that the president of the so-called republic of kosovo, the privileged interlocutor of the european union for decades, has just been indicted and imprisoned for crimes against humanity! two weights, two measures?
madam president, commissioner, a few months ago the commission was telling us that we could have a vaccine within 12 to 18 months. congratulations, you broke the record. between speed and haste, i believe that the citizens of europe deserve better. if your strategy is in line with that of remdesivir, a treatment deemed ineffective by the who, let me ask you a few questions. but it's not about being the mouthpiece for the anti-vaccine movement. these qualifications are detrimental to the substantive debate and the objectivity which we are entitled to when the health of our fellow citizens is involved. but professionals and scientists everywhere are rightly wondering. the commission does not provide any guarantees for the ordering of vaccines from pharmaceutical groups like pfizer, no in-depth studies have been issued, and our citizens are not guinea pigs. in the case of people at risk, who are given priority, cases of side effects raise concerns about the liability of pharmaceutical companies. you stated that advance purchase contracts provide for member states to compensate the manufacturer for liability incurred under certain conditions. but what are they, commissioner? for all these reasons, while your strategy requires trust, we would like more transparency.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i’m very encouraged by this debate, which has shown clearly challenges and different caveats but also confirmed our common determination to work together to enhance our overall level of security, doing this within cohesive societies where our freedoms and values prevail and in full respect of fundamental rights. we have already achieved a lot, but we need to keep up the momentum, and that’s why i would encourage the co-legislators to quickly adopt some of the interesting proposals that are new and are on the table now. i would make particular mention of the need for a quick start to the discussions and work on the revised regulation on europol. this proposal is essential to give law enforcement authorities better tools to combat organised crime and terrorism, and we need it sooner rather than later. let me also seize the occasion to advance some of the proposals that we will be presenting next year in the area of security, continuing to build these individual rooms under the single roof of our security union strategy. cooperation depends on information, so the exchange of data will be key, and that means engaging with the right authorities and ensuring that the right safeguards are in place, and eurojust will be an important focus on this. we will also take measures such as an eu agenda to tackle organised crime and new legislation to effectively tackle child sexual abuse online. in the last quarter of next year, we also plan to make proposals to step up work on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime, as well as on asset recovery. we will continue to work on police cooperation by putting forward an eu police cooperation code, which will be a key measure to modernise existing intra—eu law enforcement cooperation. your house, this parliament’s involvement in all this work will be essential and a key element in our success. let me finish by referring to the various opinions expressed around radicalisation and the link with terrorism. i would like to ask you to take an interest in our proposal, presented together with commissioner johansson, on integration and inclusion. this is an action plan with 60 concrete actions that we would like to see implemented so that our societies are able to offer a chance for integration and inclusion to those vulnerable europeans that very often fall through the cracks of our systems and become the ideal victims or prey to terrorism. instead of declaring a priori enemies from the terrorist camp, i think we have a better chance if we strike a deal on integration and inclusion and we use the universality of our education systems, housing and health provision to give a sense of belonging to the most vulnerable citizens in society. this would allow us to shield them from the appeal of terrorism. at the same time, this is a two—way street. they would also have an obligation to join and benefit from the success and achievements of our european way of life.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you all for the debate, because it has once again made it clear that we are developing strategies on a common basis and that i see a high degree of agreement between the three institutions. of course, the debate on security for citizens in europe is particularly difficult for the council, because on the one hand it is obviously a question of making the best possible use of national powers in the interests of citizens, but on the other hand there must also be a willingness to significantly expand security cooperation where europe brings a concrete added value. i am also grateful to the members who have pointed out that there is a wealth of evidence. it is not just about terrorism or drug trafficking, it is about many, many crimes that are very hard on people, but which are also a big, big test - especially for our security forces. i therefore agree with all of them that we must make the joint agencies we have even better able to assist the member states in these tasks. i want to go back to one point because i felt it was one of the most sensitive, and that is the issue of encryption. i would also like to explain the council's position on this. the resolution on encryption clearly states that the council wants to ensure that law enforcement and judicial authorities have the same opportunities to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute crimes online as they do offline. that's the core principle. once again, what is illegal offline is illegal online. second, our law enforcement and judicial authorities must have the same powers both offline and online. these are the two central points for me, where i see great interfaces between the responsibilities of the member states and the common tasks facing the european union and therefore, of course, the member states . thank you again for the discussion. i would also like to thank you for your call for a reasonable balance to be struck between security on the one hand and the rights of freedom on the other. the protection of fundamental rights and values is of paramount importance not only to you but also to the council. thank you again for that signal, which i'd like to take with me.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, it is probably my last speech today and probably my last speech as the representative of the german presidency of the council of the european union, and i would like to thank the european parliament for the opportunity to speak on this subject which is of great concern to me. gender justice equality between men and women is not just a women's issue, but men must feel equally committed to this task and to this core principle of a united europe. and that is why it is not just a side issue that has to play a secondary role, but it belongs in the policy area, in the core area of our political engagement, whether we are talking about development cooperation or international policy, crisis management or health policy. it is now clear - also in view of the restrictive measures we have to take in the member states - that violence against women, domestic violence, has increased dramatically. and i know that there is also a call here in the european parliament to launch its own gender justice and equality council. it is not my job as president to decide on council formations. this is a decision taken by the heads of state or government in the european council. there, this must be decided unanimously. but i have also had very good experiences with the fact that central issues play a role in all council formations. i would like to give just one example: i have been the president of the general affairs council for almost six months. now you may ask yourself, what is the general affairs council? what does he do? we have not only dealt with brexit, not only with the rule of law and not only with many fundamental issues such as enlargement, but also with the mff. and when i think of an initiative in the general affairs council, it is to make gender budgeting and gender mainstreaming a central part of our budget. this is an initiative which we discussed in the general affairs council. it could have been said: 'please let the ministers for gender equality deal with this.' but no, the european ministers responsible for the multiannual financial framework have done so too. this shows that it can be quite sensible for everyone to live up to their responsibilities - especially in such a large and important issue. but i am also very open about this, because we are also having this discussion in the member states. we are asking ourselves whether we need a separate ministry of gender equality or whether it is just about gender equality or whether we do not need to put all the issues of equality at the centre. because our commitment to equality is not just about men and women, but it should not matter who you believe in, who you love and where you come from and how high or low your income is. so that would be an approach that we could certainly use. i want to reassure you that the issues of gender equality and gender justice were of the utmost importance for the presidency. i have already stressed the mff, and i say this with a little bit of jealousy: with gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting we have a principle that does not exist in many, many member states of the european union, for example, - including my own country - at all. in this respect too, the european union sets standards and is a model and inspiration for many member states. i would also like to stress the important role of the ministers for gender equality. we have had two orientation debates on gender equality by the ministers responsible for employment and social affairs alone. on 13 october my colleagues discussed the subject of equal participation of women and men in the labour market. as you know, there are many different approaches and views on how to promote equality in the labour market. possible approaches are work-life balance measures, awareness raising or wage transparency. another way is to ensure that unpaid care, nursing and household work is distributed more equitably. this is crucial! on 3 december, that is to say just a few weeks ago, we had a second orientation debate, particularly in the context of the commission's strategy for gender equality for the next five years. i would also like to express my gratitude to the commissioner responsible, who is also setting new standards here, and who of course reminds us again and again of what still needs to be done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european social fund. and in doing so, we have identified a number of important points. firstly, it is not only women who benefit from equality, but also men - i said that at the beginning. we need a partnership approach. if only women are concerned with women's issues, then we are not making progress on the issue of equality. we need feminism - i can say that now - as a task for both sexes and not just for women. and i don't mean to diminish the commitment -- the outstanding, courageous commitment -- of women. a second point is important to me: the general view is that equality means that every person, whoever he or she is, has the opportunity to fulfil his or her potential, and that equality benefits all citizens and the economy. the commission is also taking this broad approach. and a third point is important to me: this consensus is reflected in the agreement we have reached, to my delight, on the council conclusions on 'combating the gender pay gap: evaluation and allocation of paid employment and unpaid care, nursing and domestic work'. we presented this document as part of the annual review of the implementation of the beijing platform for action. in this respect, there is still much, much to be done, especially in combating gender stereotypes. and i say this again for the presidency very, very clearly: gender justice gender equality is not a battlefield. it is a matter of course for liberal democracies, for liberal societies, and it should also be a matter of course for all three institutions - for the commission, for parliament, but of course also for the council - and if i have been able to make a small modest contribution to this in the last six months, i have been very pleased. i would also like to thank you for the suggestions i have received from this house, particularly on the subject of equality. i am very much enriched by this, i am very much inspired by it and it has also made our presidency of the council a success. without your support, this would not have been possible. thank you for that.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the european parliament for its call to make gender equality more visible at ministerial level in the council by setting up a dedicated council for this policy area. i welcome the commitment that this house systematically provides to equality measures. with regard to the issue of today’s discussion, it is not the intention of the commission to interfere with matters which are purely internal to other eu institutions. it is for the council to agree on the need to have a new or different council configuration. of course i agree that political debates by ministers as co-legislators are essential to achieve our goals. for instance, ministerial debates allowed for the swift adoption of the work-life balance directive. as a commission, we have always encouraged presidencies to hold such debates. as we heard earlier from minister roth, we saw this happening during this presidency. we need ministerial debates to advance on core equality issues.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, only six months ago, at 8 p.m., we were all applauding our first line, 87 per cent female: the nurses, cashiers, housekeepers who made it possible for us to live. today, no one applauds at 8 p.m., no one dares to talk about the world after, too aware that the world of "pending" will last. simone de beauvoir had predicted as early as 1949 that it would take an economic crisis to call women's rights into question. we are there: 75% of job losses are women, domestic violence has increased threefold, not to mention the mental burden due to lockdown, teleworking and school closures. and we are even seeing a decline in abortion rights in our union. is europe up to the challenge? the answer is no. the european union has still not ratified the istanbul convention, the directive on the representation of women on boards has been blocked in the council for seven years, the directive on pay transparency has been postponed. parliament is not left behind: this is the third time we have betrayed our own resolution on gender equality in appointments to economic and monetary affairs. it is time to make equality a central point of the union's political agenda. this is why we are calling for the creation of a gender equality council. this small step for the council is a big step for equality. we owe it to our mothers, our daughters and all the strangers on the front lines, who i invite you to applaud once again.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. once again we find ourselves in a situation where parliament is attempting to extend its powers in contravention of the treaties. once again, the leftists are pushing their political agenda. contrary to this rhetoric, the absence of a dedicated gender equality body in the council does not mean that there is no commitment and action. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the union and the council is therefore obliged to respect it. the council must not be subject to political pressure, it must be independent and free to decide on its organisational structure. and as a woman, i want to say that our work is very specific, so i would suggest that we consider today how many women among the european parliament's catering staff who have been made redundant since 1 january are losing their jobs. and maybe you on the left will remember the rights of women who are losing their jobs here in the european parliament during the pandemic. you're gonna have to deal with the real issues.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how would you react if a woman member of parliament were to earn less than a man member of parliament, or if a woman commissioner were to earn less than a man commissioner? i'm sure you'd be surprised at this disparity in treatment, and yet that's exactly what's happening in europe today. european women earn 16% less than men, and the female unemployment rate is much higher than the male one, at around 10%. 55 percent of women have experienced one or more forms of sexual harassment, and on average, one woman dies every two and a half days as a result of domestic violence. the actions taken so far have not had the desired, hoped-for effects, because at this rate it will take more than 60 years to achieve true gender equality in europe. i therefore appeal to you, commissioner dalli, and to president von der leyen, who has shown herself to be particularly sensitive to this issue of gender inequality, to help us achieve full equality, so as to advance our europe, because, as karl marx said, social progress is measured by the social position of the fair sex.
madam president, it seems that fish are sometimes taken more seriously by the council than women, at least institutionally, since there is a council formation for fish but none for gender equality and not even on discrimination or diversity. yet it has become ever so clear in the current crisis that we need gender equality and diversity, and we need it now. in the shadows of our society, another pandemic has been creeping on women for centuries: violence, the gender pay gap and so on. diversity is one of our biggest assets as a community, and gender equality is one of our founding values. i am sure a dedicated council formation would advance gender equality and all intersectional issues related like anti-racism, lgbtiq rights and so much more. let’s make sure that the european council is an institution that has arrived in the 21st century.
madam president, it is unusual how they want to impose on us, through the institutions, ideas, ideas without any scientific basis, which attack common sense and which can only fail because they are against nature. yes, in fact, you recognize it. despite their efforts, despite forming ministries, commissions or councils dedicated to gender ideology, they do not manage to advance in their results, although i intuit that even you do not know where you want to go. they intend to manipulate, to confuse, so that people cannot give their lives full meaning. you see women as cultural products that you can build or deconstruct by social engineering. but no, we are not puppets that you can direct to your dark interests. women today don't feel identified with these new gender roles that they're trying to impose on us. there's no common sense to support this madness. listen to the people's longings. let's respect our identity; let's celebrate womanhood, motherhood... all civilizations have done this. focus on managing real problems and let people be people, not products of your imagination.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is even more necessary today to put gender equality at the top of the political agenda of the european union. the pandemic has exacerbated existing disparities and discrimination concerning the status of women in employment, pay and in various areas of social life. economic recovery and sustainable and inclusive development cannot be achieved without strengthening women's rights, their greater participation in decision-making and political processes, equal opportunities and treatment, the fight against all forms of physical and moral violence, and the safeguarding of sexual and reproductive health and rights. if the aim is to achieve equality between women and men as a founding value of the european union, the adjustment of the institutional architecture of the council could help to achieve this. it is therefore hoped that the council will soon have a body dedicated to gender equality, able to devise measures and better address the challenges to be overcome against any inequality.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the european people's party, i am very proud to see the political groups united on a subject which i consider vital to improving gender equality policies in europe. it is not inconceivable that in 2020 there will not be a formal, institutional, ministerial configuration at the level of the council of ministers ensuring that representatives of the member states meet regularly to debate, legislate, take policy decisions and exchange good practice in these areas. i am convinced that a specific council training on gender equality would be a key element in unlocking the negotiations on the main issues in this field, namely the ratification of the istanbul convention and the unblocking of the directive on women on boards. if we want a progressive europe, one which is people-oriented and geared to the 21st century, we must abandon the paternalistic clichés that these are less noble matters, relegated to the second tier of the jha councils. i therefore urge the council to set up as soon as possible a training programme to facilitate the integration of the gender perspective into all eu policies and legislation.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i ask you: are women today in the european union victims of domestic, sexual, financial violence? the answer is yes. are there politicians who would like to limit the role of women to childbearing, childcare, home? i'm not sure. do women in equal positions, especially management positions, often earn less than men? the answer is yes. are there any governments in the european union where there is a great gender imbalance, not to say where women are the cure? i'm not sure. under the guise of fighting ideology, are all initiatives to level the playing field and protect the sex that is discriminated against being denied? i'm not sure. are some countries planning to withdraw from the istanbul convention or oppose ratification in order to maintain the patriarchal family model? the answer is yes. are stereotypes really okay in europe? of course i did. are the directives which refer to gender equality in their wording blocked by some members of the council? i'm not sure. is there a need to create a separate gender equality council? i certainly am. and i hope that in the near future, through its work, the answer to the questions i have asked will be no!
madam president, a dedicated council configuration on gender equality and equality was never more needed than today. the covid—19 crisis has shown us again that too many inequalities exist between women and men. too much discrimination subsists for, amongst others, people with disabilities, people of colour and lgbti persons. the most vulnerable people are often victims of intersectional discrimination. so let me also clearly also state that gender is not an ideology, as the very right—wing benches of this hemicycle always want to make us believe. no, it is about identity. the s&d group will stand against those who want to ban this word in european documents, and the same goes for intersectionality. yes, multiple discrimination also exists in our union, and we socialists and democrats appreciate that commissioner dalli insists that all equality strategies and policies from the commission must talk to each other. gender equality, diversity and equality must be a horizontal task and concern all policy fields. yes, that is true, and therefore i believe that a dedicated council formation will be a motor, will highlight the importance of this and make sure equality and gender equality is mainstreamed in all eu policies to make our societies move away from patriarchy and become more equal and fair. (applause)
commissioner, 2020 will go down in history as the year of an unprecedented health crisis. we have men and women on the front lines, and we thank them. the european union has also been able to go beyond itself: the birth of the europe of health, the first climate law, a historic recovery plan. but we also have a duty to future generations: to ensure gender equality in the 27 countries. commissioner, we share your ambitious political agenda for women's rights and gender equality. but all member states, good and bad, must now commit themselves. let us work together, let us learn the best from each other: that is the spirit of the simone veil pact we carry. this is the spirit of the european union. in 2021, let us have the courage to build this council of equality. we have it here. the council must have it too.
madam president, in 2020, in this european union, in one country, the right to abortion is practically non-existent. in other member states, differences between women and men are still institutionalised. and in general, in all our countries, the inequalities between women and men are still enormous. when these women who live in europe are immigrants, children of immigrants, considered immigrants, when they are not white, when they are not heterosexual, when they are not of the right religion, when they are disabled, when they are poor, when they are fragile, then they suffer even more inequalities, injustices and discrimination. getting ministers together in formal gender equality training would be a way of giving real weight to these inequalities and treating them with the importance they deserve, as well as trade, industry, finance, economics, environment. if we add the intersectional approach, then perhaps we will really be able to act on these issues.
madam president, please. i congratulate my colleague zlotowski on his report. it describes in detail the activities of the committee on petitions in 2019. i ask you to vote in favour of this report, in particular paragraph 29 which calls for the european commission to make legislative proposals on the basis of successful european citizens' initiatives supported by the european parliament. we listen to the voice of the people, and if that voice is strong, then we have to take it forward. that's why we were chosen. i also think it is important, for the future, that the work of the committee on petitions should not be limited to proposing and dealing with petitions submitted by citizens. in future, let us also put more emphasis on the effective implementation of our own resolutions. let me give you an example. the ombudsman's 2018 activity report, voted at the end of 2019, states that the ombudsman is investigating anomalies in the hearings of european commissioners. unfortunately, no progress has been made on this issue since then. we can also improve the efficiency of the committee's work by better monitoring our own achievements.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is important that europeans see how seriously we take their concerns. our close cooperation can ensure that this is indeed the case. we are committed to continuing to provide detailed responses to petitions and possible solutions at european or national level. this is a concrete example of how we can collaborate to strengthen citizens’ confidence and trust in the european project.
author. madam president, i cannot tell you how many times we have actually condemned the egyptian dictatorship and the human rights violations in this house. but while we condemn that dictatorship, in egypt it continues to repress, it continues to torture, it makes disappear anyone who thinks differently. and while this is happening, your president is visiting and walking all the red carpets in europe. while european citizens like giulio regeni are being murdered, while defenders like patrick zaki, who was studying in europe, are being imprisoned, al-sisi is receiving the highest honours from macron. i don't know if you'll consider him an example or if it was just a business matter. businesses like the ones trump has done with his favorite dictator, al-sisi, who kills his people. but countries like spain, france and italy ignore international provisions and continue to sell you weapons and equipment to repress your people. and this is intolerable. but look, we later say that we are the great defenders of human rights. what we are is a bunch of hypocrites. we demand the release of patrick zaki, ramy shaat and all political prisoners, that european cooperation be directed only at supporting civil society and that agreements with a dictatorship like egypt be cancelled. less words, more deeds.
madam president, the identity and democracy group has tabled an alternative resolution on human rights in egypt. when we drew up this resolution, we were sure that we would not find a common resolution; we knew that we would find a form of ignorance, if not contempt. ignorance, first, of the dangers that president sisi's two elections have helped to combat. my dear colleagues, rest assured that egypt is much better off with president sisi at its head. remember the situation when mr. mohamed morsi and the muslim brotherhood ruled the country. moreover, we have heard that the european commission has financed associations such as the collective against islamophobia in france and we are therefore entitled to ask a question: when will the european union finally become aware of the dangers associated with the muslim brotherhood organization in egypt, as in some other countries of our continent? ignorance, then, of what egyptian society is. illiteracy, extreme poverty, the undermining work of some islamic preachers are the real emergencies facing the egyptian state. to suggest that president sisi's obsession is to repress human rights activists is, in my opinion, totally false. finally, ignorance of the importance of egypt in the fight against islamism. to counter the influence of qatar and turkey on the mediterranean world and on muslims, we need to work in confidence with cairo. ladies and gentlemen, this resolution condemns a state which is trying to improve its relationship with the coptic community, which is fighting islamism on its soil. it is shocking, it is inappropriate, it is counterproductive and we will not vote for it. i take this opportunity to wish a merry christmas to the coptic community in egypt, which, thanks to president sisi, can celebrate it in peace.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after what i have just heard, i would like to say to some republicans in france that when you have the same friends as the far right, it is never very good. i hope that this resolution will be taken into account and that it will advance human rights, which are so badly abused in egypt, with its tens of thousands of political prisoners, those journalists, lawyers, human rights activists arbitrarily imprisoned, with this ruthless repression. we are talking about lives broken, families torn apart, and intolerable injustices. who here would deny that egypt is a dictatorship, pure and simple? and yet, helpless, we witnessed in france the grand welcome of president al-sissi. i'm outraged by it. i am appalled that our french president is honoring the violation of international law. i am appalled that he officially refuses to make the reception of a head of state conditional on his respect for human rights. by doing so, mr macron is making it clear that anyone, no matter what they do, will be worthy of being received by france and is denigrating all the work done by the european union to uphold the rights of egyptians. it's a shame. as i said, i am waiting for this resolution to advance the rights of egypt. but i also expect it to move us europeans forward, because it is long past time for us to measure the effects of our financing policies and trade with this regime. it's also time for sanctions to be lifted. amnesty international's reports on the violations of human rights are instructive. why do our governments tolerate these crimes? on behalf of the french and german arms industries. on behalf of french and german industries, to sell 700 million weapons, president macron last week awarded a dictator our legion of honor and ignored the suffering of his people. these weapons also end up in the hands of repressive security forces. when will this industry be controlled and transparent? mr macron, again, is organizing himself so as not to have to answer for his responsibilities. this is a disgrace, and europe must do something about it.
author. – madam president, let me begin by thanking my colleagues and all the staff for the excellent cooperation in drafting the urgency resolution. its strong message is a testimony to the cross-party commitment to stand with the uyghurs and all those whose human dignity and freedoms are being violated every day. just in the recent years, the chinese communist party has built an orwellian state that has introduced mass surveillance, engaged in forced organ-harvesting from prisoners of conscience, forced sterilisation, forced labour, and has placed over one million uyghurs in the concentration camps. it systematically destroyed thousands of churches, mosques and other places of worship and culture. it behaves with increasingly brute force across mainland china and hong kong, and threatens and bullies taiwan and countries around the globe. moreover, cardinal bo said rightly that ‘it is the oppression, the lies and corruption of the ccp that are responsible’ for the current pandemics. dear colleagues, it is the right time to re-think our relationship with china, ensuring a value-based and consistent approach towards the chinese communist party. we must understand that our values do not hinder our policies – but policies that ignore our values do. if the eu wants to have credibility as a global actor, it must ensure a consistent value-based foreign policy. that must mean seeing the chinese communist party for what it is, while engaging positively with the chinese people. that must mean standing with the uyghurs, hongkongers, tibetans, and all those oppressed by the chinese communist party. that must mean clear consequences for the suppression of human dignity and freedoms, such as imposing targeted sanctions. that must mean upholding corporate responsibility through due diligence in our supply chains and banning the import of all products made by forced labour. that must mean working closely with our democratic allies in addressing human rights violations across mainland china and hong kong, and coordinating our policies on sanctions, import bans and other measures to send a clear message: we will defend human dignity. we will defend freedom.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, recently i saw documentaries on rte and the bbc highlighting that the chinese government has reportedly detained more than a million muslims in re-education camps. the presidency has amassed power, using more and more unapologetic means to suffocate internal dissent or desire for political reform. and like many in this house, i am deeply concerned about the increasingly suppressive regime in china and how many religious and ethnic minorities, in particular the uyghurs and kazakhs, face a violation of their human dignity, as well as a denial of their rights to freedom of speech, cultural expression and religious belief, as well as peaceful assembly. chinese officials maintain that what they call ‘vocational training centres’ do not infringe on uyghurs’ rights. they have refused to share information about their detention centres. nevertheless, internal chinese government documents leaked in late 2019 have provided important details of how officials launched and maintained the detention camps, as do the rte and bbc documentaries and satellite imagery. the chinese authorities need to immediately, and unconditionally, release the uyghur scholar and sakharov prize winner in 2019, ilham tohti. the global influence of china is clearly growing. it is because china is so economically influential that democracies who respect the rule of law and fundamental human rights need to coordinate more effectively in implementing sanctions and other measures to address human rights violations in mainland china and its other regions. nothing else will suffice.
the resolution on forced labour of the uyghurs in china is more than timely. earlier this week, the center for global policy released a study that shows that the problem is even bigger than we originally thought, and that much of the cotton in our market is harvested through forced labor in china. it should be clear that international companies, including european companies, are actually turning a blind eye and not looking at what their subcontractors are doing. so the commission's proposal on due diligence - it has been said here so many times - must come very soon. we need to work on this very quickly. but we must also accept our responsibility through trade policy. we're negotiating an investment deal right now. let us ensure that there is a human rights and forced labour chapter and that it is enforceable. trade policy is not a stand-alone issue, but it must be one of our powerful tools to change the world for the better. let us do the same by making sure that we use our economic clout to help end forced labor.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, "re-education camps", the chinese leadership says. oh, is that so? but what is the purpose of the forced labor of the more than one million uighurs locked up in these concentration camps? well, it is to bow down to a single party that demands and would like to impose the assimilation of minorities to the majority ethnicity that the uyghurs are reeducated like, for that matter, the tibetans and the mongols. one people for one party, that is the aim of these ethnocides which are taking place before our eyes, and which no one can ignore. we know, everyone knows, but the chinese regime dares to present its dictatorship as preferable to democracies. everyone knows, but the governments of muslim countries are silent, while the islamist movements, so quick to denounce islamophobia everywhere else, say nothing. not a word. so mr xi, we say to you from this parliament, europe says to you: this crime, you are personally responsible for it and we hold you personally guilty of it.
on behalf of the id group. what did general de gaulle say in 1964 when he recognized the republic of china? two things. he felt that china had to be recognized, because the weight of evidence and reason was weighing more and more. he added: "it is not excluded that china will again become, in the next century, what it has been for centuries, the greatest power in the universe". we're here now. the emergence of a multipolar world is significantly weakening us dominance over the world, and every piece of information about china must be subject to our critical thinking. like you, i wish for a china which respects religious freedom and actively participates in the concert of nations. this is what we must work on effectively, not on the multiplication of statements of mistrust towards beijing. it is in europe's interest and in the interest of all our countries. exactly one year ago, we voted resolutions on hong kong. what were they for? what have they changed? if we are willing to engage in a genuine dialogue with beijing rather than a policy of permanent denunciation, then perhaps we can make a difference.
for the greens/efa group madam president, 20% of the world's cotton is now produced in xinjiang province, a province where we have known for several years all kinds of human rights violations are carried out with great indifference: forced labour, rape, torture, mass surveillance, forced sterilisation, confinement in re-education camps, harassment of the muslim uighur minority and intimidation of the press and activists. we can no longer turn a blind eye to what appear to be crimes against humanity, as today's resolution makes clear. when our children call us, we can't say we didn't know. i thank and congratulate antoine griezmann for his courage and responsibility in cancelling his collaboration with huawei, accused of participating in the surveillance of the uyghurs. let us take our european champion as an example, because we all have a responsibility and a role to play. i therefore call on all companies, especially european ones, to stop all trade in goods produced in xinjiang. history will judge us for this. if we fail to stop these human rights violations, history will judge us.
madam president, i accuse you. i accuse the leaders of the chinese communist party of the worst crime against humanity of the 21st century: the deportation and eradication of the uyghur people. i'm charging you. i accuse the international community of condoning this crime by its silence and its passivity. i'm charging you. i accuse the leaders of many muslim countries, from pakistan to saudi arabia, of waving their faith as a banner on the one hand and supporting china's policy of destroying mosques and desecrating cemeteries on the other. i'm charging you. i blame the greedy bosses of nike, zara and so many other multinational corporations who profit from the enslavement of a people. i would also like to point out that the european union is not a political union. we urged these leaders, already a year ago, to take action to close these camps. what have they been doing for a year? i didn't say anything. i'm not doing anything. a footballer like griezmann or thousands of young people on social media have done more for the uighurs in a year than all our leaders combined. so let us be clear: if these leaders sit on the resolution we are voting on today, if they refuse to sanction the chinese leadership, history will judge them as accomplices in crimes against humanity and we will judge them before it.
member of the commission. – madam president, nasrin sotoudeh has been recently returned to prison and is facing clear health difficulties. once again, we have asked that she be released and reunited with her family. the european union is closely following human rights developments in iran, and we are acutely aware of the deterioration that has occurred over the past year. iran’s execution of dissident ruhollah zam last saturday is of course deeply worrying. as noted in the statement issued by the spokesperson for the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, the european union condemns this act in the strongest terms and recalls once again its irrevocable opposition to the use of capital punishment under any circumstances. iran continues to execute more than 200 individuals every year. we believe that it is imperative for the iranian authorities to uphold the due process rights of accused individuals and to cease the practice of using televised confessions to establish and promote their guilt. all individuals found to have been involved in serious human rights violations, including during the response to the november 2019 protests in iran, should be held accountable. while we recognise that iran continues to host hundreds of thousands of refugees, the human rights situation in iran remains deeply concerning. the authorities’ repression of peaceful protest and other gatherings continues unabated. such repression, the restriction of fundamental freedoms, and discrimination against religious and ethnic minorities are features of life for too many iranian citizens. iran also continues to hold a number of eu—iranian dual nationals on doubtful grounds, following trials where the due process rights of the accused were not respected in full. this includes ahmadreza djalali – whose situation many members of this house are following – who remains at risk of imminent execution and whose life we ask be spared. we regularly engage with the authorities to urge improvements in the human rights situation in iran as part of our comprehensive policy towards iran. this includes asking that the repression of human rights lawyers and defenders, peaceful protesters, ethnic and religious minorities cease, and that individuals detained as a result of their advocacy for universally recognised human rights be freed. iran should uphold its domestic and international commitments on human rights, including the international covenant of civil and political rights, to which it is party. we have been vocal in this demand, including at international forums such as the united nations human rights council and through public statements whenever justified. as the eu, we will continue to call for the release of all arbitrarily detained eu-iranian dual nationals and iranian human rights defenders. we also call on iran to ensure that no individual is detained arbitrarily, that those who are detained are not subject to any form of mistreatment. all detained individuals should also have timely access to a lawyer of their own and to adequate medical care. this is particularly relevant to the cases of the eight environmentalists who have been detained since january 2018. one of these individuals, morad tahbaz, continues to experience severe health problems. we are encouraged by the attention paid to these issues by individual members of the european parliament, and we will continue with our efforts to work together with you in order to promote access to fundamental human rights in iran and across the world.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda as usual. the voting round will now begin and will be open until 3 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.47 p.m.)
the sitting will resume at 8.45 tomorrow. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. (the sitting was suspended at 4.37 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statement on future eu-uk relations (2020/2922 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
vice—president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i welcome this debate that gives us – michel barnier and myself – the opportunity to update you on both the ongoing negotiations on the possible future deal and the withdrawal agreement implementation. let me start with a letter. as i previously mentioned to this house, deal or no deal, it was of utmost importance to ensure that the withdrawal agreement will be operational in time, as of 1 january 2021. this was a matter of trust and mutual respect of international law obligations. yesterday, we held the fifth regular meeting of the eu—uk joint committee on the withdrawal agreement. this meeting marked an important milestone. it followed the bilateral agreement in principle that i had reached with the uk co—chair, chancellor michael gove, last week and reported immediately back to the uk coordination group of the european parliament. in the meantime, the member states have managed to swiftly approve the relevant decisions, and today i am therefore pleased to confirm that we have officially endorsed the necessary formal decisions and practical solutions for the timely implementation of the withdrawal agreement and that of its protocol on ireland and northern ireland by the end of the transition period. in relation to the protocol implementation, this means that we have delivered on our overarching objective: to protect the good friday belfast agreement, avoid a hard border on the island of ireland, and thereby contribute to maintain peace, stability and prosperity on that island. this was only possible thanks to the dedication and solution—driven approach on both sides. this is also a testament to our shared commitment to the good friday belfast agreement. these solutions provide businesses and people in northern ireland with the necessary clarity and stability, while upholding the integrity of our single market. as far as the eu is concerned, we have achieved our two main priorities. first, to obtain robust working arrangements for an eu presence in northern ireland so that our representatives can effectively carry out their tasks on the ground. in particular, i welcome that the uk has finally agreed to provide adequate equipment and facilities, as well as continuous real—time access to the relevant it systems and databases both on the ground and remotely. our eu representatives will thus be able to carry out their monitoring tasks on site at all places where goods and animals enter or exit northern ireland through ports or airports. this is key to ensure that the protocol is implemented correctly by the uk authorities in northern ireland, thereby protecting the integrity of the eu single market. second priority: to make sure that the uk government not only continues to actively engage in the timely implementation of the withdrawal agreement, in the joint committee framework, but also commits to withdrawing all contentious parts of its internal market bill and refraining from introducing any similar parts in its taxation bill. this it finally did last week, as part of our bilateral agreement in principle. given these reassurances, we were also able to find workable solutions for a number of areas. in detail, the joint committee adopted five decisions – four decisions on the protocol on ireland and northern ireland: the evaluation decisions on the practical arrangements for the union presence in northern ireland; a decision on goods not at risk of entering the eu single market; a decision on the exemption of agricultural and fish subsidies from state aid rules; and a decision to correct some technical errors and omissions in annex ii of the protocol. and one decision on the extension of social security coordination to the european economic area and switzerland, as of 1 january 2021. the joint committee also took note of the list of 25 persons, including five chairpersons, to serve as arbitrators for the dispute settlement mechanism under the withdrawal agreement. this decision will be adopted shortly. in addition to these decisions, we have adopted a set of unilateral declarations to set out pragmatic and time—limited solutions where the uk was not fully ready for the end of the transition period, whilst ensuring credible pathways to full compliance in the forthcoming months. these solutions concern a number of areas: temporary border control posts specifically for checks on animals, plants and derived products; export declarations; the supply of medicines; the supply of chilled meat and other food products to the supermarkets; and clarification on the application of state aid rules under the terms of the protocol. i underline again that these temporary solutions are subject to strict conditions to ensure that all relevant stakeholders will be in a position to fully comply with the protocol in the course of 2021. last but not least, we also agreed to pursue our joint efforts in assuring that during the grace period until 30 june 2021 and beyond, the rights of our citizens and uk nationals are effectively protected. the joint committee thus endorsed and agreed to publish the second joint report on the implementation of residents’ rights prepared by the respective specialised committee. this report provides an update on national residency schemes in the uk and in the european union. it also outlines outreach and assistance measures to support eu citizens and uk nationals, including vulnerable groups, and to inform important stakeholders such as employers. much remains to be done, but yesterday marked an important first and decisive step in living up to the commitments of the withdrawal agreement. before passing the floor to our chief negotiator, michel barnier, i want to underline that we will need to continue paying full attention to the implementation of the withdrawal agreement in 2021. we will focus on how our mutually—agreed solutions will actually work on the ground. to this end, we also agreed yesterday that the joint committee will meet at least quarterly during the upcoming year. i want to thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, for your support in this endeavour. i will of course continue to keep this house regularly abreast of, and closely associated with, all upcoming developments on the withdrawal agreement implementation front.
head of the task force on relations with the united kingdom. madam president, i greet each and every one of you in this very long and extraordinary negotiation which i have had the honour of leading on behalf of the commission and on your behalf for more than four years now, after having succeeded together with parliament and the council in preparing a withdrawal treaty for the united kingdom from the european union, as he wished. it is this treaty that i have just spoken about, and i want to thank maroš šefčovič personally and in your presence for the tenacity and efficiency with which he and our team have managed to organise, finally, all the final concrete and operational arrangements, so that this treaty ratified last year by your parliament and by the british parliament can be implemented, as we expected and as is normal and necessary for peace in ireland, the economy of the whole island and the protection of the internal market, and that it can be operational in due time, in a few days. what is happening here is a second negotiation. beyond leaving the european union, the question is whether the united kingdom will leave the single market and customs union in about ten days' time with or without an agreement. we're at a moment of truth. we have very little time left - a few hours - in these negotiations if we want this agreement to enter into force on 1 january. as our president, ursula von der leyen, said to you two days ago, here in this very house, the possibility of an agreement is there - i think so as a negotiator - but the path is very narrow. the time when we have to make decisions will also be the time when we have to take responsibility. i will take my own, as i have done throughout my public engagement, in accordance with the mandate given to me by the 27 member states of the european union and supported and confirmed by the vast majority of the political groups in this parliament through your resolutions. i would like to recall three fundamental elements in this negotiation. it was the british who set the very short deadline to which we are now being forced. by refusing in june any possible extension of the transition, which was proposed to them and with which we agreed, they set the deadline of 31 december for that moment of truth. should they leave, as we want, with an agreement, or will they leave the single market and the customs union without an agreement? the british chose this time frame. the second point is that this is an extraordinary negotiation, conducted over nine months, as we have never seen in the past, on so many subjects that are at the heart of your resolutions and your mandate. although we regret that the british were not willing to go further, particularly through a foreign policy, defence and cooperation agreement, which we were prepared to negotiate, this is their choice. it takes two to negotiate and to reach an agreement. nevertheless, what remains and what we have been working on for the last nine months is considerable, since it covers all the subjects, or virtually all the subjects, to establish new cooperation in other forms, in a new framework, after the british leave, in the areas where we have had, for 47 years, joint work and action with them in the framework of the union. and that is why this partnership is unprecedented: both in the time needed for negotiation - i recall that it took four or five years to negotiate a more modest agreement with canada or japan - and in the scope of the issues we have to deal with. finally, the third point: in such an agreement - it is your mandate, it is your resolution - everything forms a coherent whole and there is no agreement on anything until there is agreement on everything. nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. it is therefore not surprising that in the last few hours we are in, the very great difficulties of the negotiations are also concentrated, the most difficult and difficult points, as i have often said before the european parliament's coordination group led by david mcallister, and yesterday again before the chairmen of your groups. the british have set, since the beginning of these negotiations - this is the very reason for brexit - a fundamental requirement: they want to regain their full sovereignty. at the same time, they must respect the sovereignty of the member states of the union, which form a solidary whole throughout the european union. and we have a fundamental requirement: this union of 27 member states, which functions democratically on a voluntary basis and under the control and impetus of your parliament, is based on values, common policies, an economic and social foundation which is the single market, much more than a free trade area, an ecosystem; we are also asking for these values, these principles and this single market to be preserved. we want open and ambitious trade and economic cooperation, but it must be fair and equitable, free and fair, fair and free. it must be based on what is called a 'level playing field' - i prefer to say 'fair competition' - that is, rules of fair competition and high standards, particularly in terms of social, environmental and climate standards. and if the sovereign uk wishes to diverge in the future, that is its right, but it cannot be without consequences when it comes to having access to our markets without tariffs and without quotas. the uk also wants to regain its sovereignty over fishing, to be able to control access to its waters. as i have said many times and i say again in your presence, we accept and respect it. but if the united kingdom wants, after a credible and sufficient period of adjustment, to be able to cut off access to its waters for european fishermen at any time, the european union must also have a sovereign right to react or to compensate, by adjusting the conditions of access to its market for all products, and in particular for fishery products. this is one of the major difficulties currently facing the negotiations on this fisheries issue, which is part of our overall economic partnership. ladies and gentlemen, i personally think that it would be neither fair nor acceptable for european fishermen to have only transitional rights in british waters which would eventually evaporate, while everything else in the agreement, particularly for british companies, would remain stable. that would be neither acceptable nor fair. these are the main points of difference between us today. of course, as you know, there are many other very important dimensions to the partnership we are negotiating. i am thinking of very broad economic cooperation through an ambitious free trade agreement, unique in that it is the first of its kind that we have ever offered to any third country and offers tariff-free and quota-free access with the rules i mentioned regarding a level playing field. i am thinking of connectivity in air and road transport and energy, or cooperation in social security. i am also thinking of our partnership in the field of internal security, the security of our citizens, and god knows if everything that is happening around us on the geopolitical level calls for us to cooperate, to work for the security of our citizens with the british. that is why we have already agreed in this negotiation on close cooperation in eight specific areas, on which many of you are working in your committees: europol, eurojust, prüm, extradition, exchange of information on criminal records and asset freezing and confiscation. this cooperation for the safety of citizens is based on two prerequisites that are now accepted: respect for fundamental rights, in particular as enshrined in the european convention on human rights, and the protection of personal data. so here we are. the points which remain open during these crucial hours are fundamental points for the union. we ask nothing more than a balance between rights and obligations and reciprocity in access to our markets and our waters. nothing more, but nothing less. if it is obvious that we want an agreement, it is also obvious that we will not make this agreement at any price. i am speaking to you now, very sincerely - and i have always spoken to you in truth and sincerity - and i cannot tell you what the outcome of this last straight line of negotiation will be. that is why we must be prepared for all scenarios, and that is why a series of texts containing contingency measures to prepare for a possible no deal are also being put to the vote. i would like to thank you and all the departments and actors of the european parliament for your speed and readiness to adopt these measures in a very short time, which will allow them to enter into force, if there is no agreement, on 1 january next. we are also working in parallel to make the new brexit adjustment reserve operational as soon as possible. i'm leaving you very quickly - i apologize - since the negotiation will resume. as the president of the commission has asked me to do, we will resume negotiations with david frost and his team this morning in a last attempt to reach an acceptable agreement, particularly on the fisheries issue. we are not sure that we will succeed unless everyone makes a real and concrete effort to find a compromise. i would like to thank you for your support and for the trust you have shown in us since the beginning of our journey together. this trust is based on a method that i proposed from day one and which was supported by president juncker and then president ursula von der leyen, namely dialogue and permanent transparency. i know - and i am thinking in particular of the chairman of the inta committee - that there are additional requests. we're trying to answer that. there is also the general balance of this negotiation which is not yet completed. our services, the task force team and i have tried to be as available as possible to provide you with the information you needed throughout this long negotiation. i think that is the reason for the trust you have always shown me and for which i want to thank you. i know, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the constraints you have to face in the democratic examination to which you are entitled and which is normal: i was a member of your assembly, i was a national parliamentarian for a very long time. this democratic question is at the heart of this negotiation, which must be known, detailed and approved in the national parliaments and the european parliament. economic actors must be able to take ownership of it, because it is very important, and - if i may say in conclusion - much more important than the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union alone. it is the european project that is at stake. throughout this negotiation, i kept in mind three points of view and reference to try to put things in the time frame. the first point was peace in ireland. that was and remains a fundamental point for me, and that is why i thanked maroš for the work that has been done to ensure the conditions of stability in ireland. the second point is obviously our union. i have been given a mandate to defend the interests of this union: the single market, consumers and citizens, businesses in all sectors. and then the third point of view: let us not forget that, beyond brexit, the united kingdom is a great country that we respect, a partner, a neighbour, a friend, an ally with which we must have, in one way or another, if not now because we cannot reach an agreement, then later, a strong bond and extremely ambitious cooperation. that is the whole point of this negotiation and the serious, very serious moment we are in for its eventual conclusion. thank you for your attention, thank you for your trust.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as we have just heard, in less than two weeks the united kingdom will leave the single market and the customs union and yet, until now, both sides have not been able to agree on our future partnership as of 1 january. the negotiations have indeed been intense and tough. they take place in an unprecedented environment and under extreme time pressure. the european union has never negotiated an agreement with a third country of such scope, and only in nine months. let me first of all thank vice—president maroš šefčovič and our chief negotiator, michel barnier, and their two teams, for their tireless work and the very good close and regular cooperation with the european parliament, in particular during the recent weeks. the best solution for both sides would certainly be to reach a comprehensive agreement before the end of the year. this would provide clarity and this would provide predictability to citizens and businesses. yesterday, the conference of presidents emphasised that we, as the european parliament, stand ready to organise an extraordinary plenary session towards the end of december, in case an agreement is finalised by midnight this sunday. we stand ready to debate the outcome of the negotiations intensively as soon as possible, and we stand ready to thoroughly scrutinise the final text. but, one thing has to be very clear: this would be a unique scenario and cannot and will not serve as a precedent for future agreements. there is a narrow path to an agreement, commission president ursula von der leyen said on wednesday here in the plenary. indeed, i welcome the substantial progress made on many issues. however, as we heard this morning, differences remain to be bridged, in particular on fisheries, and we all know this will be very challenging. since it is still not clear whether there will be an agreement in the end, we simply have to be prepared for all scenarios. the four targeted and time—limited contingency measures we will adopt today aim at limiting some of the most severe consequences in areas where no fall—back solutions exist. disruption will happen with or without an agreement. this is the natural consequence of the british decision to leave the european union and to no longer participate in our single market and customs union. i remain convinced that it is in our mutual interest to agree on a sustainable, a trustful and a balanced partnership with the united kingdom, which is one of our closest partners and an ally.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, the populist rhetoric that has ensnared the british right for a decade now has prevented this until now. we must not hide the fact that the formalization of the emergency measures makes us feel the gravity of the moment. but the public can rest easy. contingency plans will help us to minimise the imminent chaos that would result from a breakdown in air, rail and road transport, as well as in the fisheries sector. the contingency plans must also serve to send a clear message to london: the commission, the 27 member states and this parliament will maintain our cohesion to the end. we are aware that the absence of an agreement in the current circumstances of the pandemic would be very negative for both economies. but we also know that the united kingdom would suffer even more if no agreement is reached. we will not relent at a time when mr. johnson finds himself increasingly alone. the cost of a no-deal brexit would represent another severe blow to the british economy after the one caused by the pandemic. big british business is pressing him for a deal, and his anti-european godfather, donald trump, will soon be history. of course we must continue to seek agreement before a bad break. and we can only continue to be grateful for the commendable commitment of the negotiating team, led by mr barnier, to reach the best possible agreement. but to do that, parliament's voice must also be heard. the provisional application of the agreement before parliament has given its consent is not acceptable. this would jeopardise the rigorous and democratic scrutiny that european citizenship deserves. we therefore hope, mr barnier, that the commission will send us the provisional text of the agreement as soon as possible. we need time. that's what the leaders have agreed to by consensus. we will only discuss the outcome of the negotiations before the end of the year if an agreement is reached before midnight this sunday, december 20. the spirit of cooperation between the commission and parliament must also guide the member states. we must not allow the london strategy of passing the fisheries agreement at the end of the negotiation to divide us. a fair fisheries agreement would both guarantee the right of european fishermen to fish in british waters and the uk's fish exports to the european union. our red line must remain the defence of the single market. under no circumstances can we allow the united kingdom free access to the single market if the johnson government does not commit to the same regulatory standards for europe. if the british government abandons its maximalist nationalism and returns to pragmatism, there is still time. the negotiation of a treaty does not imply the loss of sovereignty. and the united kingdom and the european union negotiate as sovereign equal partners, because we want to ensure the prosperity of peoples united by historical ties that will always accompany us.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, dear michel, john le carré has just left us. everyone knows what he thought about brexit. at the very least, he was not listened to. but today, there is no point in dwelling on the past. the time has come to build the future of the relationship between the united kingdom and our union, and that time has come. we can build a relationship where our sovereignty is respected and our interests are protected. we face the same challenges. climate change, covid, the economic crisis, terrorism, an unstable and unpredictable world, repeated attacks on our democracies are threats as much to london and paris as to berlin and brussels. these threats are borderless and no country can face them alone. in the past, the adventure of splendid isolation has been short-lived and given way to cordial understanding. this is a new friendly agreement that the european union is proposing to the united kingdom. it is an agreement like no other that europe has ever signed with any country, an unprecedented agreement for a partner without equal. an agreement where we would choose sovereignly, on both sides, to allow access to our markets and access to our waters. an agreement where we would choose sovereignly to continue to be ambitious on the environment, on the protection of our workers, on the protection of our data. an agreement that would allow us to continue exchanges between our police, our judiciary, our researchers, our students. an agreement where we choose to focus on the reality of what brings us together rather than the illusion of what divides us. however, with a few days to go before the end of the year, this agreement has not yet been concluded and today we are voting on measures to be taken in the event of the negotiations failing. we do not want these negotiations to fail, but it is our duty to be prepared for all scenarios. it is above all our common duty to choose freely to walk side by side rather than turning our backs on each other.
before we continue with the debate, i open today's first voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated in the agenda. the voting session will be open from 09. 30 to 10. 45. the the votes will be taken by the same method used in previous voting sessions. all votes will be cast by roll call. the first voting session is hereby opened. you have up to 10. 45 to vote. the results of the first voting session will be announced on the 13th. 00.00 hours
we now continue our debate on the council and commission statement on the future eu-uk relations (2020/2922 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not the final negotiations lead to an agreement or to an interim agreement, which would relegate our parliament once again to the role of a recording chamber for decisions taken elsewhere, the time is obviously ripe, four and a half years after the sovereign choice of the british people. the original sin here in brussels was to criticise and disregard the decision of the british people, who had expressed themselves by an absolute majority in a referendum. in the ideological approach to european integration, everything has been planned to expand, to expand ever further and unreasonably; there is no provision for a country to leave the european union under favourable conditions. then you negotiated a deal with theresa may whose terms - and you knew full well - were unacceptable to the house of commons, unacceptable to the british people. and obviously, by saying that this text was fixed, impervious to any change, you were hoping to basically re-write the plates and make the british people change their minds. here in brussels, many were hatching plans to trample democracy and simply cancel the 2016 vote. this was a bit of a pathetic move for the european institutions, because boris johnson, soon after winning the election, dropped the first text. new negotiations have been initiated. what a waste of time. finally, what is likely to cost us dearly in the coming days is the refusal to deal with the most delicate and contentious points in advance. the fair competition rules, for example: the uk is asked to respect european standards, including the decisions of the court of justice, even though that is precisely one of the reasons, one of the reasons why they left the european union. the union is now negotiating free trade agreements, trade agreements, with the whole world. it gives tax, financial and economic advantages to some of the most critical countries, such as pakistan and turkey. and we would not be able to reach a reasonable and balanced trade agreement with our great ally, friend and neighbour, the united kingdom? another problem, of course, is fishing. fishing is a fundamental point. let us hope that the interests of the netherlands, denmark and france are not sacrificed because berlin does not see any interest in this and does not see it as a fundamental issue. finally, of course, we have an interest in having a high-quality agreement with the united kingdom. let's not play the doomsayers. we were told that there would be seven plagues on egypt if brexit was voted, a shower of calamities if boris johnson became prime minister; none of that happened. let us simply remember that democracy was founded in europe by our civilization. the united kingdom has decided to leave because brussels has often forgotten democracy.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the path to a possible agreement between the european union and the united kingdom, albeit a narrow one, remains open. i have no doubt that our negotiating teams, led by michel barnier, are committed to safeguarding the union's vital interests, starting with the integrity of its internal market. and who knows, perhaps a trade agreement will emerge from this negotiation which, unlike those the union has passed so far, will be a healthy emulation of ever higher social, environmental and other standards, rather than a perpetual race to the bottom. ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am shocked by the position taken yesterday by the group chairmen of our parliament, who did not accept, but spontaneously proposed on their own initiative, that we should ratify a possible agreement in a few days' time, after what can only be a mock examination. i have been a member of the european parliament for more than 11 years and i regularly hear many members complaining about the lack of respect that our parliament is being shown by the commission and the council. these are sometimes justified complaints, but earning the respect of others begins with respecting yourself; and the offer made yesterday is ridiculous to parliament. how can we believe that in a few days we can sift through a treaty of unprecedented volume and political importance for the union, the first paragraph of which we have not yet seen? whatever confidence we may have in our negotiators and the political probability of ratification, what is at stake here is the respect of the procedures, responsibilities and roles of the counter powers, what in english is called checks and balances, crucial elements of a democratic regime. by proposing expeditious ratification, a majority of this parliament is setting a bad precedent. it sends the signal that, even if our parliament is playing games, it will always ratify the treaties proposed to it, even at the last moment. but it is precisely the implicit pressure created by the ratification process by the legislature that keeps the executive - in this case, the commission - under democratic control. without this, the officials who actually write the treaties operate at will. what is the point of giving them a negotiating mandate if we are not able to verify, at the end, that the final texts are in conformity with that mandate? the weakening of democratic control inevitably leads to abuse of power. like you, i do not like the principle of provisional application of the treaty, but contrary to what some people say, it preserves the prerogatives of parliament, since it is enough for parliament to refuse ratification for it to end. moreover, this is not the only way to give parliament time to examine the matter. there is nothing legally preventing two parties from freely agreeing to extend the status quo of their relationship by a month or two. ladies and gentlemen, across the union, too many parliaments are increasingly treated by their governments as mere recording chambers. i can only deplore the fact that a majority of the european parliament, on its own initiative, is joining this disastrous development. this is all the more ridiculous given that we have just been waging a hard and successful fight together over the european budget and over the beginning of the conditionality of european subsidies to respect for the rule of law. i'm telling you, pull yourself together.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we have come a long way, but now is the time to close the deal. history will be harsh on both the european union and the united kingdom if we fail on the ultimate stretch. my group, the ecr, wants a deal. we have always been very close to the british, in particular the conservative party. british conservatives were co—founders of our group. they offered us professionalism, pragmatism and a sense of humour. in the conservative party an understatement is an expression of survival, since your opponent within is never far away – basically behind you! however, that party also produced historic leaders like winston churchill and margaret thatcher with the power of strong personalities. since the british have left, the european parliament has become more boring, if i may say, and without nigel farage over there in the corner, rather quiet, like a provincial assembly. but mr farage has found other topics to play the naughty boy of britain. without the british, the right to dissent seems to disappear from this parliament, unfortunately. there is mounting pressure for la pensée unique. open debate and conflicting arguments, however, are ways to test ideas against reality. too many narratives in this chamber remain in a void of self—complacency, missing the much—needed reality check. without the british, the european parliament tends to become a kind of religious congregation mainly convinced of itself. we have to look for ways to keep these qualities the british have brought to this parliament in which, ironically, english remains the main language of communication without interpretation. the brexit negotiations have also shown cultural differences. the french always have une logique and a big design; the british rather proceed case by case, picking the cases that serve them best, as mr barnier may have noticed. i thank mr barnier, mr šefčovič and mr frost, including their teams, for all the efforts to find common ground from different positions. madam president, we have to close the deal, but parliament should not resort to grandstanding. regarding a possible agreement it’s simply ‘yes’ or ‘no’. political groups should work on a resolution for debate here in brussels. the vote could be carried out remotely – a useful practicality we have mastered in this eventful year. let us establish an ep—uk parliamentary delegation to remain in dialogue and to meet old friends in a new era.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i want to start with the better news. firstly, we are today opening the way for emergency aid and measures in the event of a no deal. this is a good signal to the workers and their businesses in the european union, and it is a good signal to the european fishing industry. i would also like to suggest, commissioner, that if we are faced with more serious economic shocks, we should consider instructing the european investment bank to set up a fund to help small and mediumsized enterprises in particular in the event of these serious consequences for these enterprises. secondly, i welcome the progress made in the negotiations on the implementation and enforcement of the withdrawal agreement and the irish protocol, which the commissioner has addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also the condition for this parliament to be able to give its consent to a treaty. according to michel barnier, we are now at a crossroads in the negotiations and if an agreement is reached in the next few hours, this will give me and my group the task of deciding how we will behave towards such an agreement, whether we will agree to it or veto it on the basis of its content. and the commission has announced that this agreement is the first of a new generation of trade agreements, namely a fairtrade agreement. and we will measure the commission precisely by this, because as the left in the european parliament we have been fighting for many years for a new generation of other trade agreements, namely agreements that provide a strong answer in the social and labour, environmental, human rights and consumer protection areas, not only for the eu but also for the trading partners. the problem is that we no longer have time to really examine a deal in parliament. we can no longer organise a real democratic debate with each other or with the european public but that is precisely our job as meps! this is precisely what we are doing in the interests of europeans, and it is totally unacceptable that we have not had access to at least the draft texts. mr barnier, i hope that the negotiations will be concluded in the next few hours, partly because that will give us a little more time to read the texts really thoroughly. and to the british government i say: move, but pronto!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching 31 december, the deadline by which, according to the withdrawal agreement signed last january, the other agreement on future trade relations between the united kingdom and the european union should be concluded. this period, unfavourably characterized by a pandemic crisis, should have prompted the british government to accept an extension of the negotiations, which would have been wise and appropriate. but this cannot and must not be to the detriment of the fundamental principles which have been clearly defined in the withdrawal agreement. in particular, we cannot tolerate any backsliding or derogations from the level playing field, which is a fundamental element for equal access to the single market. the idea that, once the agreement is concluded, the united kingdom will lower its standards by unfairly competing with our companies, already in difficulty because of the crisis, perhaps by inflating state subsidies or resorting to social dumping is completely unacceptable and we must reject it with all our might. we are willing to work to the last possible second to get a good deal, but this will not happen at any cost, and above all at any price.
madam president, as we go down to the wire today, we meet again still none the wiser as to the outcome of the negotiations on the future partnership. let me assure you, everybody is fed up of waiting for godot! but if this parliament has shown flexibility it is because, michel barnier, the uk task force and maroš šefčovič have gone above and beyond to keep parliament and the council abreast at every twist and every turn of these negotiations. it is not because our negotiators refused to extend the transition period, mr lamberts. it is because the uk is running down the clock. it is because we have the historic responsibility to shield people and businesses as well as possible from the historic lack of responsibility the uk government is showing. with today’s contingency votes, we show that we are not putting all our eggs in the same brexit basket. we must be prepared for every eventuality, protecting those who would fall deepest off the famous cliff—edge that seems inevitable without a deal this weekend. a no deal brexit would be a serious failure of statecraft and hit citizens and businesses in the most brutal manner. therefore, i call one last time on prime minister johnson: embrace this weekend’s ultimate chance to give priority to citizens over political cynicism. we owe this to our current and future negotiations. our hand remains extended.
madam president, we are running out of time. negotiations are progressing, divergences remain, and in the meantime the transition period is about to end. citizens are worried, businesses are nervous with all this uncertainty, and we have to ask ourselves, why are we in this terrible situation? for two reasons really. the first one is that prime minister boris johnson always refused even to consider an extension of the transition period. he knew that to conclude these difficult negotiations in such a short period of time would be unprecedented. he knew that back in june, when an assessment was made, progress was far from sufficient. he also knew the dramatic consequences of covid—19 on our negotiations and the fact that we are facing the worst recession since world war ii. but even so, he always refused to consider an extension of the transition period. the second reason why we are where we are: the uk government is taking endless time to realise that some illusions of brexit simply cannot be delivered. yes, the uk is a sovereign country, entitled to take back control of laws, borders and waters. nobody in the eu is denying that, but we have to recall that we are just having this conversation because the uk – despite being out of the eu, the single market and the customs union – wants to maintain access to the european market with zero tariffs and zero quotas. the eu answers ‘okay we are ready to go that far if you ensure fair competition’. so this is no punishment. this is not about regulatory freedom. this is a deal. a fair deal. michel barnier, maroš šefčovič, we thank you, we support you, and we are sure that, as soon as the british government understands reality, the negotiations will reach a positive outcome. that reality in this case is very simple: an ambitious agreement can only be reached if fair competition is ensured, if a common level playing field, in a credible manner, is ensured for the future relationship. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, we are now in the final stage of a tragic development. it is the british themselves who want to leave the eu, and it is the british themselves who have set the end date as the end of this year - not the eu! this chaotic process is perhaps a long-standing example of how one bad decision can lead to many bad decisions. once one mistake has been made, yes, it is obvious that others will follow, and it can be difficult to understand how internal british conservative party politics has now become a european matter. but now we are there, unfortunately, and to the detriment of ordinary people in fishing, in agriculture, in industry, who are at risk of losing their jobs because of brexit. the eu has come a long way. our skilled negotiator michel barnier deserves a prize for his patience. but in the end it is up to our good british friends to decide for themselves whether they want to continue trading with us, because we cannot and should not compromise the single market of the eu. it is not fair that british companies should have access to the single market and at the same time be able to compete with european or danish companies on unequal terms of competition. we can hope for and we must certainly work for a sensible agreement here at the very last minute, but it must be fair, and it must be fair to both sides.
madam president, we are at the eleventh hour of the negotiations. significant progress has been made on the northern ireland protocol, on citizens’ rights and on the level playing field. ensuring peace and a diplomatic link with northern ireland now seems possible. ensuring there are standards – high, democratic, environmental, social standards – in our trading and cooperation with the uk is still a priority. but time is ticking and we no longer have the possibility for scrutiny before 31 december, so we cannot fulfil our duty as members of this parliament. running down the clock should not be an effective negotiation tactic. we are seriously endangering our future relationship with the uk if we accept a last—minute deal and if we submit ourselves to this shameful uk government’s strategy of delaying talks since one year ago. there cannot be blind trust. we are here to protect the rights of citizens, both in the eu and the uk. let’s take the example of data protection. we already know that facebook is planning to shift the oversight of data belonging to british users from ireland to the usa. once again, this uk government has a very problematic record on data protection aspects. so we cannot sign an agreement with them, an adequacy agreement, with no further scrutiny. we need at least a technical extension, a six—week—minimum scrutiny period, written into any deal that would be made.
madam president, the outcome is still uncertain, but whatever the outcome, let me thank the efforts of the negotiation teams. the difficulty to get this agreement should be a lesson for us in the future. if the eu is convinced of our potential and strength, we should have no fear in becoming more open and flexible, both to enter and to leave the eu. the eu needs a clarity act - a clarity act to lay the ground for an orderly exit of any member state with a mandate to leave and it should also establish clear paths into the eu - a path that we hope our fellow scottish friends will follow soon. the basis, also, for the internal enlargement of the union should also be fixed - with no taboos. this is the path that we, as catalans, wish to follow soon. political unions strictly based on transparent and democratic principles last longer than those that are not. the more free and democratic the rules are, the more united we will remain.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. no deal is not the end of the world. we have no agreement with our two biggest trading partners, the united states and china, and yet we are doing rather well. we are also preparing for a similar situation with the united kingdom: today we will decide on further emergency measures. but that's not what we want. we want a good contract, but not a contract at any price; the european parliament will therefore be monitoring this very closely. we have a special responsibility. we are the only parliament that will vote on the treaty. it is not the parliaments of the 27 member states - and not some regional parliaments - that are voting on it, nor is it the british house of commons, but only the european parliament. so we're gonna have to keep a close eye on him. it is also right that we have set a deadline: sunday is a shift, otherwise we will not have time for it, and then the negotiations will have to be continued in another way. we will therefore look closely at whether we can achieve a level playing field, whether we can secure services - public services in particular - whether we can establish consumer protection standards, whether we can secure workers' rights and further improve the environment. we want all this in a contract. the door is still open. so, boris, please keep calm and make it happen!
madam president, i am an optimist by nature. i think that ultimately there will be a deal, because it is in the interest of both parties to have a deal. in the interest of the uk and also in the interest of the european union, but let’s be a little bit realistic. everybody talks now about how someday there has to be a deal possible. hopefully, yes, but let’s be realistic. it could be that we need all the time to negotiate this the deal. then there could be solutions for that. a technical prolongation of the transition, a provisional application of the agreement, or even stopping the clock! that’s also done in such negotiations. what is now the most important for us all is not to panic from the european side and to fully support our negotiator, michel barnier, and to have fair competition in the end. because it’s about that. it will be far more devastating for our companies if the outcome of this negotiation is unfair competition to their disadvantage. that is the reason why we have to continue to be very clear on this. there has to be a level playing field: no unfair competition can be accepted. also on fish. if they want us to eat their fish, well, we have to have the possibility to catch their fish, in their waters. that’s the bit. one last remark that i want to make, is a request to michel barnier, and to the negotiation team, that is to do something on erasmus. i know the cherry-picking attitude from the brits, which is in fact devastating for erasmus, but let’s take a unilateral measure towards the students in britain that they can continue unilaterally to make use of erasmus. it’s a pro-european generation this young generation and it’s this generation which will bring the uk back inside the european family in the next decades.
madam president, mr barnier, i would like to use my speaking time to talk about fishermen. their situation is more than worrisome. i went to meet the breton and norman fishermen, who explained to me the risks that brexit posed to them. in the north, in boulogne, for example, some fishermen fish 80% of the time in british waters. if there is no agreement, european ships will no longer be able to access it. this would lead to the displacement of many ships in european waters, particularly near the coast. this high concentration, together with the unilateral fixing of quotas, would cause a real ecological disaster. this would threaten all fishermen, including those who were not even fishing in british waters. but an agreement won't solve everything. despite the promises, it is clear that an agreement will be made at the cost of a significant reduction in the european quota. in any case, the protection of small-scale artisanal fisheries must be given priority by the member states. quota reductions must not be made uniformly for the whole fleet, as provided for in article 17 of the common fisheries policy. states must use economic, social and environmental criteria when allocating fishing authorisations. no one would understand why a giant industrial super-trawler that freezes its fish to export them to the other side of the world continues to fish if, at the same time, the artisanal fishermen, who sustain the economy of our coasts and take care of the environment, leave the business. the priority is therefore twofold: protect the resources of the sea and protect small-scale fishing. one doesn't go without the other.
madam president, we are now on the final straightaway in these negotiations. more than ten days to go, more than a few hours to spare. at such a critical moment, having followed our debates, i cannot understand why some people here are still clinging to theoretical discussions and are trying to recreate the brexit game, wanting the failure of the negotiations to serve as a lesson either for the british or for the european union, or are simply trying to discuss the place of our assembly in the games of chance. it seems to me that only one thing should matter at this crucial moment: to pursue the interests of the citizens of our countries to the end. for them, for all of us, for our british friends, we must give every chance to an agreement until the end. this will be crucial for the geopolitical balance of the world of tomorrow and essential for the protection of our economies, which are already so badly affected by the current crisis and which, in fact, would be further weakened by a breakdown in our industrial and commercial links and by a brake on the whole agricultural sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. there are jobs at stake, from boulogne-sur-mer to lorient, from zeebruges to rotterdam. there are territories whose dynamism is based on the vitality of this activity and its historical link with the sharing of our waters. lives are at stake, and in the days ahead, that's all that matters. thanks to our negotiating team, fisheries have never been an adjustment variable in this discussion. it must remain a priority until the last minute and we know we can count on michel barnier to do so. the uncertainty in which we find ourselves must finally force us to prepare for all contingencies. we agreed to validate the contingency measures under the accelerated procedure: this was necessary to ensure that we could accompany a break-up without an agreement. but we cannot wait until we are at the bottom of the barrier for the commission to concern itself with solutions to the major crisis that this outcome would produce, and, commissioner, we must move quickly on this point, with a double requirement of efficiency and transparency. we are prepared to work continuously until 1 january to have concrete solutions to bring to all those who will be directly impacted and who will be the first to be affected by a no-deal brexit.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, of course we are voting for these emergency measures for fisheries and transport. however, in the case of fisheries, there is no real hope for these measures, because if they are better than nothing, they solve nothing. and if unfortunately they were activated, they would put us in a situation where the uk would decide almost on a case-by-case basis who will fish in its waters and what, with no visibility for european fishermen. and that is precisely what we must avoid: a situation of permanent negotiation. a situation where an entire industry would be deprived of the visibility that is essential to its life, to its survival. we have just experienced this for the last three years, and no investment has been made in this sector, the fisheries sector, which needs it. the position of a sustainable, balanced and long-term agreement was what michel barnier wanted. tomorrow, a new page will be opened. we will have to maintain this position over and over again. in the event of no agreement, these emergency measures should not last forever, and that is why they are coming to an end. whatever happens, we cannot put ourselves in a situation where what is once valid is called into question overnight, as our british friends wish. let's get this sector back on the map.
