on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, many might think that what is happening in australia is happening in a faraway continent with no impact here in europe, but nothing can be further from the truth. the wildfires in australia are increasing the co2 levels in our atmosphere and creating toxic airspaces. the smoke created by these wildfires is orbiting the entire planet. fires in new south wales and queensland alone emitted a combined 306 million tonnes of carbon dioxide and they are generating enough heat to create unique weather systems, including cyclonic fire tornados. the 7.3 million hectares of land that have been destroyed cover an area that exceeds the size of the netherlands and belgium combined. over one billion animals – twice the amount of eu citizens – have perished. and this is, yes, a biodiversity crisis. australia is home to truly unique species, including 200 types of mammals that do not exist anywhere else in the world. in the face of this destruction, complacency should have no place, and the eu needs to remain a leader in fighting climate change when these things happen. because we saw an unperturbed government in brazil when the amazon was on fire, and we are seeing an australian government that for the past months has been hesitating to link these fires to climate change. we saw some members of this house today trying to do the same. it is even planning to use a carbon accounting loophole to fulfil its paris agreement commitments and this is not acceptable. as we discuss here, the australian wildfires are still raging, and are projected to do so for at least another month. ultimately we are speaking about climate change. we are in this together. that’s why we urge the australian government to recognise climate change, phase out its dependency on the fossil fuel industry, and honour the paris agreement now, before it’s too late.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on behalf of the delegation for relations with australia and new zealand, i would first of all like to express our sincere condolences to the victims of the bushfires in australia. we stand in full solidarity with the australian people in this extremely difficult time, in the face of the heavy loss of human life, the loss of private property, livestock, wildlife and nature and the damage to the economy. our thoughts are with the families and friends of the victims and the injured, and our heartfelt thanks also go to the firefighters and the volunteer emergency services. the first question, of course, is what caused these catastrophic fires. the climate in australia is generally hot and dry. bushfires are an integral part of australia's ecology, and among other things, they allow certain species and plants to regrow. however, it is not to be denied that climate change is also causing drier and hotter summers in australia, and thus affecting the length of the bushfire season. what conclusions are we to draw? firstly, we must examine whether the eu's disaster prevention mechanism is able to cope with disasters of this magnitude. this applies both to operations within the eu and to our ability to provide assistance in third countries in such emergency situations. of course, australia also has to meet its climate targets, and i expect that these targets will be met, partly because of the great potential of renewable energy. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european parliament delegation will travel to australia in february to learn about the impact of the fires and progress in climate action. we will have an open debate with the members of parliament and the government. and now i want to say that we are first and foremost offering our support to our australian friends in this difficult moment and to stand by them in overcoming the enormous challenges.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! the situation in australia is indeed extremely serious. the fires are burning across the continent. for weeks now, they have been wreaking havoc on australia's wildlife and biodiversity, threatening the lives of people and animals. we are all deeply concerned about the situation, the prolonged drought and the high temperatures that are obviously contributing to these fires. but let us not forget that fires on the australian continent are not new. they happen almost every year. what is striking, when i listen to our debate, is the concern of the european parliament for climate change. because if you look at the european parliament's actions, how does it care about the climate, if it moves to strasbourg for four days once a month, generating co2 and costs 110 billion euros a year? so i'm calling for action, not words.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fires which have been ravaging australia since september have brought a dramatic toll, we have talked about it and we are seeing it: 25 people died, over 10 million acres of land were destroyed, over a billion animals were killed. the capital canberra, with its 500,000 inhabitants, has the worst air quality in the world, and the smoke has reached as far as chile and argentina. it is an unacceptable balance sheet and it is yet another piece added to the ever-growing list of extreme weather events that are caused by climate change. yet the dramatic images of the fires are not enough for the australian prime minister, who not only responded belatedly to the fires but also declared that his conservative government will not strengthen policies to combat climate change. australia was also one of the countries, along with brazil, that most hampered the negotiations in madrid at the last cop 25. the commission is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with australia. how will you ensure that sustainability objectives and environmental protection standards are included in the sustainable development chapter? will it support these objectives by means of sanctions for non-compliance?
madam president, massive wildfires have been raging through the country in recent months. since last september, 28 people have died and thousands have lost their homes. firefighters are risking their own lives to keep people safe. our sympathy is with the australian people in these difficult times. not rain, but ash is falling from the skies of australia. we all know that these extreme bush fires cannot be viewed separately from climate change. this is not a casual emergency – this is a climate emergency, stemming from a climate crisis. now the question is whether these catastrophic fires will bring some sanity to australian climate politics. the conservative government, led by prime minister morrison, has done nothing to meet its climate commitments. during the un climate talks in madrid, ‘scomo’ sided with brazil and saudi arabia to derail global action on cutting emissions. how can a prime minister make fear of the costs of climate action more terrifying than the actual results of climate change themselves? of course, this is not only an australian problem. it is related to one of the biggest global challenges of our time, in which we all bear responsibility. the devastating australian fires underline the magnitude of the effects of inaction at the recent cop 25 climate conference. this only makes it more important for us, as the eu, to lead and set a standard for the rest of the world. but the european green deal is not and cannot be only about europe – climate diplomacy must become an integral part of our external policy and a fundamental pillar of our soft power around the globe. there is no time to waste anymore. leading by example we must bring all of our partners with us for common, bold political action on the climate crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that as soon as news of the tragic fires in australia was published, news of the arrests of some 200 arsonists who were alleged to have caused these fires was also published, thus weakening or even denying the link between fires and global warming. but the problem here is not so much to establish the causes of these fires, the triggers, but rather to establish the causes of the spread of fires: how can we not see, or not observe, that this phenomenon of simultaneity on a global scale is even evident? how can you not consider that it was 50 degrees celsius when this all happened? ironically, this is all happening in a country that is the world's leading coal exporter and the largest spender on climate agreements. ironically, all this is happening at the same time as the temperature rises by about one and a half degrees, one and a half degrees! so we're starting to understand what can happen to us.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the new decade opened with the terrible news of the fire-ravaged parts of australia. large fires, as big as the whole of stockholm county or some european countries. and we, we're used to seeing our planet as tellus where we can live together, animals and humans. but we were shown an australia that was more like a sun. fire means so much to us humans. it can be light or dark. but in this climate-threatened age, it is definitely darkness: human and animal lives being extinguished and property being destroyed. when we discussed before the turn of the year whether we were going to see a climate emergency, this is exactly what we were talking about. that's why it was so important to adopt a climate emergency. the world ended - paradoxically, given the time we live in - the last decade by failing to adopt ambitious rules at the climate summit in madrid. in the age of forest fires, it is very difficult to understand the politicians, the political parties and the countries that do not want to contribute to an ambitious climate policy. this is precisely what young people are trying to tell us here in the european parliament: be responsible now, respect the paris agreement. this morning i was talking to a seven-year-old who is very close to me, my seven-year-old, about the fires in australia, and he said this: isn't this what car emissions contribute to? i said yes. it is. but then we should stop driving with them. it was a natural response from a child. but i must say that we should take the children's appeals seriously. we need to be much more ambitious in our climate policy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a few words about the specialness of the australian eucalyptus forest. we've known for a long time that this is a biodiversity that has lived a very separate life, and where the entire food chain is actually based on eucalyptus trees. in other words, biodiversity originates in the food chain created by the eucalyptus. it's what mammals live on, it's what birds live on, it's what reptiles live on and insects and so on. but what is so special about this eucalyptus forest? when the temperature rises above 105 degrees fahrenheit [40°c], the oil also penetrates the leaves of the forest, and this simply becomes an explosive fire. we know this from the australian bushfires many years ago. but what is the australian government doing? five percent of australia's energy is generated from renewable energy. everything else is fossil.
mr president, the whole world is shocked by the fires in australia. over 10 million hectares of forest have been burned. over a billion animals such as koalas, kangaroos, wallabies and cockatoos had no chance in the immense sea of flames. this is a real catastrophe for man, animal and environment. how many more catastrophes must we face before the tide turns dramatically? in the last century, australia has warmed by one and a half degrees. we must do everything we can to turn the tide, starting with the livestock industry. through deforestation and co2 emissions, the meat industry is a major contributor to the climate crisis - the biodiversity crisis, but especially the climate crisis - that makes these fires much worse. we are all responsible for the survival of our planet. knife and fork are our main weapons to fight climate change and help animals. that's why we should eat less meat and dairy. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, i am sure everybody in this house joins me in sending prayers and best wishes to the australian people as they deal with this national catastrophe. it’s disappointing that climate change has been blamed as the primary cause of these devastating bushfires by both our parliament and other so—called climate experts. the cult of climate change marches on with no definitive evidence to support or deny the factual accuracy of their assertions. logic suggests that climate change has little to do with this natural catastrophe. higher human population density, resulting in more discarded cigarettes, sparks from electric transmission lines, campfires and, worst of all, arson are more likely causes of the problem. traditional aboriginal managed burning at the right time of year has been shunned or banned without any understanding of the consequences. this parliament needs to urgently address its own excessive, avoidable carbon footprint by rationalising the waste associated with running three parliament buildings in different geographic locations. we must end the culture of ‘do as i say, not as i do’, and be judged by what our hands are doing, not by what our mouth is saying. anything less smacks of do-gooding hypocrisy. (applause from certain quarters) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – it has in my view nothing to do as you say with dryness or heat. at the end of the day, we’ve had bushfires in australia – or they’ve had them – tragically, many, many times over many, many centuries. the biggest fires happened in 1974-75. that was after probably the highest precipitation australia had had for a long time, which propagated a vast amount of undergrowth and then the bush fires happened. this is why, if you ignore the aboriginal traditions of backburning at specific times of year when it’s safe to do so, you end up with the problem they have now.
madam president, i have outlined the immediate consequences of the fires in australia in my initial request for a change of debate. i would like to add to this the idea of the dramatic consequences in the medium and long term which will obviously be a loss of biomass which will lead to additional droughts and a deep water stress in a country where water is already a scarce commodity. if this phenomenon is of course very largely linked to this particularly hot summer in australia, it obviously needs concrete and above all quick and immediate responses. this was the subject of the change in the title of our debate which i made at the beginning of the sitting. of course, for reasons of political sectarianism, parliament has rejected my proposal to open and operate the resceu programme to help australians and has contented itself, as i have been hearing for some time, with making big statements about climate change but not doing anything concrete.
madam president, the tragic and horrific bushfires in australia have once again been hijacked by the extreme eco—evangelists, who ascribe every natural disaster to anthropogenic climate change. this lazy, convenient narrative grossly oversimplifies bushfires, whose causes are as complex as their occurrence is predictable. in reality, the proximate causes are other man-made factors, like human ignition and byzantine government regulations made under pressure from the green zealots, such as the failure to perform prescribed burns, controlled felling and the removal of invasive grasses that act as fuel. the climate fearmongers dishonestly claim that australia has experienced steadily worse droughts. this is nonsense. the data shows that the 1920s and 1930s experienced worse droughts and heat. so, yet again, i feel compelled to dispel the myth that this is caused by man-made global warming. in reality, the policies of a misguided green ideology are the real culprits and we have made what would normally be big fires into hellish conflagrations. so stop using this devastating tragedy to promote your extreme, overtly political environmental agenda of radical change to our economic system that won’t budge the global thermostat. (applause from certain quarters) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – my honourable friend is quite right. in fact, i did some research last week which showed that the environmental lobby had prevented exactly what my colleague said: away from the local autonomous regions dictating how policy should be mandated and towards the federal level, and then being hamstrung by the environmental lobby again, which prevents what i would call moderate fires and felling, which have actually been eliminated because they believe it causes too much co2. what happens then, of course, is that you get these massive conflagrations with vast amounts of co2 as a result. so it’s imperative that we get what in this chamber we used to call ‘subsidiarity’ – the ability of local authorities to actually run their own regions. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, it’s indeed somehow very fitting that this first debate in this parliament in the new year 2020 is on climate change because this must be the year that the world, as a whole, finally bites the bullet on climate action. with current policies we are on track for over three degrees of warming, and the tragic fires in australia offer a foretaste of the human and ecological disasters that result. as meps across the political spectrum have acknowledged, there’s overwhelming evidence that climate change makes these types of events more frequent and more severe. not only are the fires themselves tragic, it’s also tragic that there are still influential politicians in australia with their heads in the sand – or in the coal mine – denying this link. to those in australia who are fighting the fires and their human and ecological impact, we stand with you in solidarity and in mourning. to those in australia who are fighting to make their leaders recognise and act on the climate emergency, we stand with you in solidarity and hope. and to those europeans who want to sweep the climate under the carpet while pursuing free-trade agreements, i say simply, think again.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, i thank the commissioner for his reply, which i think is satisfactory. i'm gonna look at this from a different angle. the means employed in many countries, including denmark, has been border controls. border controls may be useful in some places, but are actually a huge nuisance in most cases. now, fortunately, it is being driven between sweden and denmark. we don't bother the citizens as much as we have, and it hasn't helped a bit. we have introduced border controls with germany as well. in denmark, we are celebrating this year the reunification of northern schleswig with jutland, and at the same time we are very proud of the fact that we have established good cooperation on the border between the minorities and the people of denmark, so that border controls are not introduced. fortunately, it does not work, or rather: it does not work, it wastes money, it annoys our fellow men, it costs a lot. but it has been done. it is as stupid as the boar fence that has been set up down there, which does not help either (says the commission), but which bothers people and is pure symbolism. i am grateful that, despite all this, good proposals are constantly being put forward.
madam president, in 1992 european leaders gathered and signed the eu’s birth certificate, the maastricht treaty, yet by enshrining freedom of movement into law they unwittingly signed the eu’s death warrant. first, john major betrayed the british public by denying the public a referendum on maastricht; then, in 2004, tony blair opened the floodgates to 10 new european union member states – again, no public permission was sought. blair was toasted by metropolitan liberals with a taste for cheap nannies and tradesmen, but big businesses devoured cheap labour as millions of low-skilled labourers moved in. freedom of movement was also music to the ears of organised criminals, human traffickers and terrorists. the seeds of brexit were sown, opening a fault line which should destroy the european union. but when angela merkel rolled out the red carpet to one million asylum seekers in 2015, and brussels attempted to bully other nation states into accepting quotas, the british people finally called time. only last week, guy verhofstadt stuck up two fingers to our electorate by demanding freedom of movement must still be a part of the brexit deal. why? it’s bye-bye mr barnier, auf wiedersehen emperor verhofstadt... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the economy is run by pickpockets. every day, across the eu, women open their pay cheques to find that nearly a fifth of what they should be earning has been stolen from them – day after day, year after year, until they retire on a pension that is, on average, 35% less than their male counterparts. for women whose gender intersects with their race, migration status, religion, sexual orientation and/or disability, this wage disparity is even higher. ‘equal pay for equal work’ is a slogan from the uk, where the equal pay act became law in 1970. yet here we are, 50 years later, and it is shameful that we are still having to stand up in parliament chambers and repeat it. if any of us saw someone lean over on a bus and take a banknote out of the pocket of the woman standing opposite, we’d shout out, we’d call the police, we’d be outraged. i call upon each and every member of this house to shout out. find your outrage. women must not wait another 50 years.
mr president, when i was a child in the 1970s, there was a raft of gender equality legislation that was passed at different levels. over 40 years ago, we had the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) passed. fifty years ago in the uk, we had the equal pay legislation passed and, in the eu, after the defrenne legislation and cases, we had lots of different directives that were passed. that was 50 years ago. yet, still, there’s not a single country in the world that has equal pay for equal value. what’s going on? it’s pretty simple really: it’s discrimination. there’s not a single country in the eu that has equal pay. we’ve got to close this gap. i’m getting old, and we’re leaving the eu. i had hoped that during my lifetime, we would see substantive equality and the advancement of women. cedaw and its principles, as well as a revised equal pay directive, should be part of the equal pay strategy. it should be part of a gender equality strategy in the eu. i want to turn for one second, please, to the uk. as we leave the eu, i throw this gauntlet down to the johnson government: take back control. well, let’s pass domestic legislation about equal pay right now. let’s close the gender pay gap, let’s close the pension gap and let’s give the 50s women their pension back.
mr president, many years ago i worked at a homeless shelter in the midlands in england, and it is an issue close to my heart. so this ‘housing first’ initiative has much merit. but i have some concerns. i worry there’s a danger in a transnational centralised one-size-fits-all approach that can mean ignoring local and national circumstances and solutions. i’d like to stress that the causes of homelessness are not universal. i think that it can mean avoiding deeper long-term solutions. so, for example, the horror and degradation of homelessness has been in some countries directly the consequence of the impoverishing and brutal austerity policies imposed on nation-states in eurozone countries by this very european union, that has led to unemployment, evictions and homelessness. but in turn, those stagnating economies in some countries force people to move around europe looking for better lives, understandably, and they often, too, end up homeless. for those who glamorise freedom of movement, to remind you that according to the charity crisis, the number of homeless people from continental europe accounts for a third of all rough sleepers in london. freedom of movement can mean people are far from home, exploited in low-paid jobs, with no support network. as one polish man told the ft, homeless for five years: ‘brexit or no brexit, i’m staying, there’s nothing for me back there’. we have to make sure that we solve the problem at home before trying to impose from this central eu holier-than-thou body.
in 2018 cyprus ratified the istanbul convention, which states that the rights of victims should be protected at all stages of an investigation and that judicial proceeding should enable victims to be heard, to supply evidence, and to have their views, needs and concerns presented. last week, a british teenager was convicted of public mischief in cyprus and handed a four-month suspended sentence after being found guilty of falsifying a rape claim. this young woman’s legal team has reported irregularities, which may have led to a questionable verdict in this case. how is it possible for a court to conclude this woman was lying when the judge has refused even to consider whether or not she had been assaulted? the woman in question has also reported that she was denied a lawyer, which is against the european convention of human rights. we demand, we call on member states to require that all member states strive to uphold commitments made in the istanbul convention, that cyprus addresses procedural issues that may have taken place in this case, and that the cypriot legal system should ensure any appeal is heard by the supreme court.
mr president, the president of the united states of america publicly and repeatedly fantasised about carrying out war crimes in iran. the truth is president trump doesn’t really care about america – like the shifty, failed, plastic mafia boss of his simple imagination, he only cares about himself. so my dear fellow europeans, on behalf of world peace, in the name of justice, i call upon the european union to impose sanctions directly on this warmonger and associates. the only deterrents this limited individual understands is what personally and financially hurts him. so freeze his european assets, restrict his travel once he is a private citizen again, place sanctions on his beloved golf courses, and let the lessons of europe be clear: war criminals do not win. but, friends, let us talk of hope. the hope of peace. the hope of an honest president. america needs that hero to throw off the terror of an endless war, and to secure a brilliant future for all. that hero, that great hope, just could be bernie sanders.
mr president, can somebody please tell me why the eu is allowing super trawlers to operate in the english channel and the irish sea? dutch-owned super trawlers, which are up to 14 times the size of an average fishing boat, have already caused controversy in south america, have been thrown out of australian waters, and have contributed to massive overfishing in west africa. the fact is, when it comes to managing our seas, it’s not just what you catch, but what you kill. in the english channel alone, super trawler bycatch threatens john dory and bluefin tuna stocks and poses a significant threat to dolphins, but incredibly these vessels have also been allowed to work within the english channel sea bass hatcheries. sea bass is a species under so much pressure. british fishermen are banned from catching it. it is precisely this type of mismanagement that has made the eu’s common fisheries policy an economic and environmental disaster. it is time to learn the lessons of the past and ban the operation of super trawlers. the africans don’t want them, the australians don’t want them, and neither do we.
mr president, as churchill envisaged in 1946, we have recreated the european fabric and produced the structure under which it can dwell in peace, safety and freedom. decisions made here will still have an impact in my country for a long time to come, so the success of the european union remains vital, and i believe the uk’s separation will be temporary. in our recent election, 53% of voters demanded another say on brexit. yet people in the uk live under a sham electoral system, which turns 42% of votes into 56% of seats. almost all our press is owned by a few men living abroad. britain’s party of government is funded by a tiny number of very rich men with no legal limit on donations. the prime minister suppresses a report on russian interference in our elections. in time, we will again live up to churchill’s vision, and democracy and britain’s place in the european union will be renewed.
mr president, this is one of the last plenary sessions before britain leaves the eu. we may be going, but leaving will impact far into our future. today, parliament discussed the tragic bushfires that have decimated australia’s homes and wildlife. in yorkshire, in northern england, people’s homes have been devastated by floods. the eu offered millions of pounds of funding in flood relief, but the uk rejected it. in 1980, our british beaches were badly polluted and they were unsightly too. just 40 years later, 99% have been designated safe for swimming, mostly because of gbp 3 billion of eu funding. can we trust boris johnson’s government to keep our beaches clean? can we trust that our native species of birds will be saved again from extinction? who will be there, when the floods come to the uk again, to support us? the eu has worked tirelessly to invest in a shared future for our children. weird weather events must be a warning to everybody that climate change does not respect international boundaries. it is up to the elected representatives of every nation to protect our planet from environmental destruction, and britain is so much worse off without the european union.
madam president, i saw ms von der leyen leaving her hotel this morning, complete with a three-car cavalcade and police escort, and i wonder if tomorrow whether you’d like to give me a lift. i mean, it doesn’t seem very environmental not to offer a colleague a lift to the same building. welcome, prime minister. the vision for the eu over the next six months is simply astonishing: more cash to prop up weaker economies; open borders with two more countries – albania and north macedonia; and an ambition to keep the uk shackled to eu rules. why on earth would we want to do that? if those policies were not bonkers enough, you want croatia to also join the failing single currency. you would be locking your country and your people inside an economic prison and only the ecb would have the keys to set you free. the euro is the eu’s poster—child for weak growth, high unemployment and stagnant wages. don’t do it. keep the kuna. as brexit has shown, citizens want freedom, not being dictated to by a faceless superstate. the uk is leading the way out of this fanatical, democratically—bankrupt project – and i’m telling you, unless the eu can show the will to reform and repeal its gordian knot of regulations and directives, many brave nations will follow.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the implementation and monitoring of the provisions on citizens' rights in the withdrawal agreement (2020/2505 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – president, honourable members, as we are about to see the withdrawal agreement enter into force, basically unchanged from its 2019 version, except for the provisions regarding ireland, we should be pleased, in retrospect, with our decision not to accept a carve-out of the provisions on citizens’ rights, as many have requested. indeed, having done so would have led to a level of protection far weaker than we have at present, with part two of the agreement dealing with citizens’ rights fully embedded in the whole agreement and with various remedies foreseen should the uk not deliver adequately in implementing these provisions. this does not mean that we should rest on our laurels and i’m grateful to the european parliament for having scheduled this debate today. i also welcome the draft resolution tabled as it lists a number of concerns regarding the preservation of citizens’ rights, the administrative procedure in relation to residents’ rights, the limited assistance offered to citizens in this respect or the effectiveness of the uk independent authority due to oversee the implementation of these provisions. this does not necessarily mean that everything is rosy on the eu side. it is important, as you note in your resolution, to encourage the member states to adopt a generous attitude regarding the rights of uk citizens having decided to settle in the european union. we should also insist that both the commission and a uk independent authority are rigorous in their monitoring of the implementation of part two of the agreement. there is also more that can be done regarding the awareness of citizens on both sides of the channel, however protective the provisions of the withdrawal agreement. they would be of little use to citizens, especially vulnerable ones, if they are not aware of them, nor of the administrative steps needed to benefit from them. and certainly, parliament can also play a role in reaching out to citizens and contributing to their information. of course all these provisions – even though their effect will last beyond the transition period – will not cover citizens who would consider settling at a later stage. although we are well aware that the line of the uk government is to put an end to the free movement of persons, we should make sure that the future relationship that will be negotiated shortly will be ambitious enough in terms of mobility. this will have to be accompanied with the preservation of certain rights for the citizens concerned. let me conclude by noting the large degree of convergence that exists between your positions on citizens’ rights as developed in your various resolutions and the priorities of the council. this is a clear illustration of the commonality of purposes of our two institutions as regards brexit. our common efforts should help to ensure that the provision on citizens’ rights in the withdrawal agreement allows eu citizens and uk nationals, as well as their family members, to continue to live, work or study in their host countries, as they have chosen to do.
president of the commission. – mr president, last week i was in london and i had the opportunity to speak to students about the future of the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union. after i had finished the speech, as always the floor was opened to the students and the audience and the very first question that came was not about trade, it was not about financial services, it was not about security, as important as these topics are. it was of course about citizens’ rights. and the same question came back time and again with different personal twists. one came from a young man who came from benelux living in the uk who was of course worried about his future. another came from a british lady who has an italian husband and who was worried about his status, what’s going to happen with him. and while the questions may have been subtly different, the reason for asking them were always the same. people want certainty about their lives and their future and certainty about the future of their loved ones. and i am speaking here about 3.5 million citizens in the uk who come from a european union member state, and about the roundabout one million british people living elsewhere in the european union. now these are large numbers but behind each of these numbers are people with their very own personal stories. some are citizens from another european union country but they are born in the united kingdom. others have arrived later. many have married, have children, have gone to university, have started their careers, and they work in the uk and respectively in the european union. they teach children, they treat patients, they care for the elderly, they work in farms or factories, they have started their own businesses and provide a living to many more. so whatever their own personal story is, they all have one thing in common, and that is they want to have peace of mind. they want to have a plan for their futures and the future of their families. and all they want is to feel at home in the place they call home. therefore, protecting these citizens’ rights has always been our top priority from the moment the referendum result became clear. thanks to the excellent work of michel barnier and his negotiating team, the withdrawal agreement provides comprehensive guarantees for these citizens. it gives them the protection and the certainty they need. it allows them to stay where they live today, under the same conditions, for as long as they want and without any discrimination based on their nationality. this withdrawal agreement and with what we have agreed on, puts clear obligations on the united kingdom and on the european union to safeguard these rights. it is one thing is to put them on paper, another thing is to implement them. so once the house has ratified the withdrawal agreement our top priority will be to implement our shared obligations, both in letter and in spirit. and for me this is a legal issue with a moral imperative. the good news is that the united kingdom has already begun implementingthe european union settlement scheme. to date, about 2.5 million european union citizens living in the united kingdom have already applied for residence status. most of these people have now received proof of their right to remain. this is good news. but you also know that there are cases where some have not and many more are yet to apply, and there is a number of concerns that have also been raised. there are the famous cases of the french bakers and the polish chefs that shine a light on some of the issues. but, seriously, there are many other cases where people are confused or unable to apply for whatever reasons. or others have received requests for more proof, despite having lived in the country for 40 years or more. so, we are in close contact with the citizens and the uk authorities on these issues. we need to avoid any discrimination or added complexity during the application process. we need to ensure that all citizens – especially the most vulnerable – are fully supported throughout the process. and we need the guarantee that the independent monitoring authority can act in full independence to deal with complaints. this is of utmost importance. from our side, the commission will keep a close and vigilant eye on the implementation. we are ready to help european union citizens living in the united kingdom to ensure they are properly informed and supported. and of course we will do the same when it comes to british citizens living in the european union. all these questions i have been speaking about i raised with prime minister johnson last week when i visited london. we will closely cooperate with the united kingdom to make sure that we can get this right and that we can solve any problems as swiftly as possible. finally, the good news is that there will be continuity for the european union citizens living in the united kingdom and vice versa for the british citizens living in the european union at the end of the transition period. but, after the end of the transition period, the united kingdom will be a third country. and brexit will mean changes to those who will want to make their future life on either side of the channel. we will have to negotiate a new way forward, and we are getting ready to formulate the mandate for those negotiations ahead of 1 february. we have, as we have done in the past, also made in these negotiations citizens’ rights our main priority. and we will always negotiate in good faith to build a new comprehensive partnership with our british friends. as i said to those students in london, it is the good old story about old friends and new beginnings. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in this house, throughout the brexit process, we have had many meetings with eu citizens, including british nationals. we have listened to their stories and understood better the consequences of brexit for their rights as european citizens. their concerns have become ours. in all its resolutions, the european parliament dealt with citizens’ rights, but still today we see risks to the sustainability of commitments agreed in the withdrawal agreement – hence this new resolution. the lack of proper and full implementation of legal solutions on citizens’ rights would have a massive impact on people’s lives and their life choices. the implementation of the withdrawal agreement matters because it provides a minimum of legal certainty that people need. we regret that in spite of the option presented in article 18(4) of the withdrawal agreement, the uk has chosen to use the application approach for a settled status scheme. i regret, also, that only half the member states seem to use the approach based on the declaration. we also deeply regret that the uk government has announced its intention to end free movement of people under the future framework for cooperation. eu citizens, including british nationals, have greatly benefited from the free movement of people and i still hope that the british government changes its mind on this issue. it will, further, be crucial that we find a way towards mutual recognition of qualifications, that it will be possible for citizens to participate in local elections, that there will be good cooperation in the field of family law on the basis of relevant provisions in international law and that potential regulatory divergence will not affect citizens’ rights. i appreciate the assurances given to us by the uk government with regard to the functioning of the independent monitoring authority. the european parliament will nevertheless keep a watchful eye on the implementation process. as we have pointed out in our resolution, the shortened transition period means that there is less time to operationalise governance of the withdrawal agreement regarding citizens’ rights and that an awareness-raising campaign will also be a matter of priority. ultimately, the proper and full implementation of citizens’ rights would help to build the trust needed for successful negotiations on the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, our first duty as the european parliament, elected directly by the european citizens, is to defend those we democratically represent. that explains why our top priority in terms of brexit has always been citizens’ rights, not only the rights of eu citizens living in the uk, but also the rights of british citizens living all over the european union. listening to the serious concerns expressed by so many citizens and ngos, we simply cannot ignore that people are extremely worried about the high degree of uncertainty and other damaging implications of brexit in their lives and legitimate expectations. that is why we are here today to discuss and approve a political resolution tabled and supported by the leaders of many political groups in this parliament and designed to convey a strong political message. the uk government can do more and should do more to ensure full protection of citizens’ rights in the context of brexit. we certainly acknowledge the efforts made on such a difficult issue, but the truth is that the eu settlement scheme currently in operation in the uk could easily be more user friendly and would largely benefit if additional assistance were provided to older and more vulnerable citizens. on the other hand, as many applicants are only getting pre-settled status, it would be better to take this procedure as declaratory in nature and to ensure proper review by a truly independent authority. moreover, a physical document would help to give additional legal certainty and a sense of certainty for the future, not only for citizens, but also for employers and landlords. we hope to get a positive response from the uk government regarding citizens’ rights.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the first thing that i want to do is to thank the president of the commission, ms von der leyen, and also michel barnier, naturally, for their strong and continued support on citizens’ rights. i hope that this house, when we vote – i think it’s tomorrow we vote – on this resolution gives it a huge majority, a huge majority that gives us a mandate for the final discussions with the uk authorities, which will happen on thursday. i have been invited by the secretary of state, mr barclay, and by the new minister for european affairs, mr pincher. it’s important that this resolution has massive support so that it gives us strength on thursday and friday because there are still concerns that need to be addressed. if they are not addressed now, before the end of the month, they will be on the table before the end of the year. i cannot imagine that the european parliament will agree, for example, on the free-trade agreement (fta) without solving the problems and the concerns of the eu citizens and the uk citizens, including freedom of movement. these concerns have already been mentioned by my two colleagues. first of all, the automatic recognition of citizens’ rights. there is a tory government and tory governments always say that they want less bureaucracy. well, ok, let’s make less bureaucracy and the best way to do it is automatic recognition so that you don’t need all this. the second is a physical document. why is it necessary? the uk authorities are telling us that, ‘yes, but it’s not necessary – they have an email’. but can you imagine a case where a woman goes to see her parents on the continent, comes back and at the border they ask, ‘where is your email?’ – ‘i don’t have my email, there is no energy anymore in my battery’ – or maybe she deleted the mail, so she cannot enter the uk. we need a physical document. in a normal world, you have a document. that’s the second concern. the third concern is the independent monitoring authority. my proposal is simple: why not put a few representatives of the 3million organisation in the independent monitoring authority? then we are sure that both sides are there, so it solves the problem. these things need to be addressed and i hope that they will be on thursday and friday. maybe, to finish on a lighter note, i can ask prime minister johnson for a little bit of flexibility. maybe he can follow the queen’s example – because yesterday the queen gave harry and meghan a transition period to leave, so maybe some flexibility on mr johnson’s side could also be very useful. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, the european union is often presented as a vast project, mainly economic, aimed at promoting the interests of capital holders. that's a bit true, but it's not just that. the european union and the three million european union citizens living in the united kingdom and the two million or so britons living in the european union know this well. freedom of movement, freedom of establishment to study, to work, to retire, a freedom granted to all citizens of the european union, is probably one of the pearls, one of the most important achievements of the european union. this is obviously what all these citizens risk losing with the now inevitable withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. we, this parliament and the european negotiators, michel barnier at the top of the list, have been doing everything we can to limit to a minimum the damage - because there is damage - caused by the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. i think that what has been put in the separation agreement is satisfactory, but it is true that we have a trust problem with the united kingdom: it is true that we are worried about the administrative difficulties that are being put in place or about this threat that is written in black and white in the transposition of the separation agreement into british law and which provides for the possibility for the british government to simply abolish the independent authority that will ensure the application of the separation agreement in terms of respect for the rights of citizens. more worrying still are the statements by some close to the british home office, who are almost going so far as to portray european citizens living in the uk as threats to the security of the state. my message to the uk government is therefore this: if you really consider the european union to be a friendly power to the uk, then make sure that your attitude towards the citizens of europe simply confirms that status of friends. make sure you treat eu citizens in the uk the way you would like uk citizens in the eu to be treated.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i know that the new commission president had a very good meeting with the british prime minister in london last week. they got on extremely well. the atmosphere was very positive. this is the right approach. now we need to make rapid progress on the future relationship between britain and the european union, but first of all we have to get the withdrawal agreement out of the way. as you know, the house of commons passed by a majority of 99 votes the third reading of the withdrawal agreement last week. it has now moved to the house of lords. it’s the duty of this house to give its assent to the withdrawal agreement so that it can take effect on 31 january, and i trust that will happen smoothly. of course, control of our own borders was a key factor in the vote to leave the european union. i say to ms hübner we should bear that in mind. on the subject of citizens’ rights, this is an area where both the british government and the eu have been more or less in agreement from the start. i like the first paragraph of the resolution: ‘believes that part two of the withdrawal agreement is fair and balanced’. the resolution, quite frankly, should stop there. i feel sure the resolution is designed to be helpful in spite of its misconceptions and some nit—picking. i sincerely hope so, but i am sure some role will be found for mr verhofstadt in the future. historically, of course, no country equals the united kingdom in terms of protecting the rights, freedoms and liberties of the individual. mr president, may i say the resolution focuses disproportionately on the future status of eu citizens in the eu but pays scant attention to british citizens in the remaining 27 countries of the european union. one paragraph out of 22! the uk is in an advanced stage of preparation but hardly any of the remaining member states have published plans as to how the system will work for british citizens resident in their countries. just as the british authorities will look after those within their jurisdiction, i very much hope in future, in the absence of british meps, that this parliament, along with national parliaments will be rigorous in ensuring that british citizens in eu countries are properly treated.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we must talk today about the rights of those who contribute to the well-being and also to the prosperity of british society, whether in care, in research or as self-employed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this debate has become necessary because there is a legitimate concern that the agreement on civil and related social rights will not be implemented one-on-one in the process of divorce between the european union and the united kingdom. this applies in particular to the residence status scheme, for example for self-employed service providers, as well as the applicability of this scheme to vulnerable persons or the elderly. however, we must also think now about the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. this is, as we all know, much more than a trade agreement. it is a question of regulating every single political, economic and environmental aspect which will determine future coexistence on and off the channel. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. anyone who says otherwise is knowingly throwing sand in people's eyes. that is why i believe it is necessary for the government of boris johnson to ask in good time for an extension of the transitional period, so that the rights of citizens can be protected and so that he and we can be given the time we need - no more and no less. if this does not happen - and this is something that must be emphasised here - there is still the risk of a hard brexit with all its negative consequences. my group has always been committed in recent years to safeguarding the peace process in northern ireland and protecting the social rights of those affected. we will continue to do so. there must be no lowering of standards because the uk government may get the bad idea that dumping competition is a way of obtaining economic competitive advantages. this is unacceptable, neither in social matters nor in tax policy, neither in environmental matters nor in consumer protection. in conclusion, i should like to take this opportunity on behalf of my group to thank the british colleagues with whom we have worked constructively and also debated in the past for a better europe. we'll miss you!
mr president, the uk has opened its eu settlement scheme. we’ve made plain now for three years that those who have made britain their home should have the right to remain on equal terms with all of those who live in my welcoming and wonderful nation, but not with super rights: no freedom of movement, fairness not favouritism. in elevating europeans to the top of the pile, what you are suggesting is that the africans, the asians, the americans and the antipodeans who also call the uk home are somehow second—class citizens and that is something that my nation will not abide. now i’m actually quite reassured listening to what’s been a constructive debate so far today, but i do want to suggest other politicians here who i’ve heard previously become sanctimonious and sobbing and scaremongering about the future rights of eu citizens that britain is a kind, welcoming and open country. do not give misinformation to people and make them fearful that they will not have residency. let’s work together because we are going to become an independent nation, with an independent immigration policy and we are prepared to work with you to make sure that everybody is protected. (applause)
madam president, emmanuelle is a teacher. she has taught her beautiful language to thousands of teenagers over 20 years of work in british schools in my constituency. she has paid her taxes, married a british man and has children who are british. recently she filled in an 85-page form to apply for settled status, giving her permission to stay in a country she chose to make her home, where she has worked, paid her taxes and volunteered in her community, and she was initially refused settled status. securing the rights of the 3 million eu 27 citizens in the uk is a fundamental issue. this is not about freedom of movement. this is about securing their right to call it their home, mutual recognition of professional qualifications is an absolute must going forward. there is no logical reason why the uk government can’t use a declaratory process to give this status with a suitable accompanying physical document and guaranteeing the continued independent monitoring of this process. by failing to do this our government is shaming our country. and doing it properly will encourage the eu member states to reciprocate generously with british citizens living in the eu member states. mr johnson, if you want a close, respectful working relationship with the eu after 31 january, why don’t you start by respecting the rights of the 3 million and avoiding the possibility of us having another windrush generation? (applause) (the speaker declined to take a blue card question from geoffrey van orden)
madam president, i am one of the eu citizens, an eu national who has been asked to apply for this settled status. i lived in scotland for more than 35 years. i came because of freedom of movement. i don’t understand how we ended up there. this uk settled scheme is not fit for purpose. how can this parliament protect its own citizens, the three million eu nationals like me living in the uk? let me remind you that this issue was one of the eu red lines for any agreement. we learnt today whether the european court of justice will be the ultimate arbiter and that the uk courts will have to comply. how much is this promise worth, particularly if it expires after eight years? we see what’s happening with the court with this week. i have my doubts. i’m very, very worried of what’s going to happen next. the uk settlement scheme is not fit for purpose. i won’t apply to be denied my right to live in my own home. the application process must be scrapped and our rights must be automatically protected. as for scotland, the people living in scotland made it very clear: scotland must remain in the eu. ce n’est qu’un au revoir, nous nous retrouverons.
madam president, i will respond to it, because we heard that before that most people who have applied have managed to have settled status. forty-seven per cent of the people who applied have been denied settled status and need to reapply. if you apply for something and it is refused, of course, it is refused: all those people have been refused settled status. this is not on. go back to london and tell boris johnson.
madam president, i’d like to focus please on paragraph 18 of the document, which says that the parliament regrets that the eu has announced the principle of free movement will end. i have to say very clearly that the ending of free movement was a massive factor in the british public’s decision to leave the eu. it was one of the biggest driving forces. and yet there appears to be within this parliament today political myopia towards that. you’re actually trying to tell britain that we should not have an application process, it should have just been the declaratory. we shouldn’t dare to ask for proof in order to back up statements in an application. the british people expect the british government to end free movement and to do it in a way which is effective, not merely nominal. and the sooner that this parliament wakes up to that, the sooner we will actually get the right sort of dialogue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – ms widdecombe, i hear you say, ‘the british people want this or that’, but isn’t it true that only 43% of the people voted for your political agenda and it’s only because of your electoral system that mr johnson has a majority of seats in parliament? the majority of the british people actually did not vote for a brexit party. isn’t that true, ms widdecombe? (applause)
blue-card answer. – 17.4 million people, in the biggest democratic turnout in british history, voted to leave. we ended up in the european elections as the single biggest party in this parliament. why? why did boris johnson get such a massive majority in the last election? because his basic promise was ‘get brexit done’. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, i would like to say to the council and to the commission, and in particular to mr barnier: portugal, the country i represent here, has the oldest alliance in the world, in terms of a treaty still in force, with the united kingdom, which dates from 1386 and has been invoked several times throughout the 20th century, and is therefore fully in force. few countries will mourn the departure of the united kingdom as much as we do, but few will also wish as much that the ties between the united kingdom and the european union should remain as close as possible. and so i must say that the situation of the citizens is decisive for us and that there is still much to be done. and i must also criticise the british government here, because sometimes it seems that the european union is more concerned about the situation of the british on the european continent than the british government itself. and so i would appeal to mr johnson's government to implement swiftly all the agreed provisions so that citizens on both sides of the channel can live in firm and healthy cooperation and friendship.
madam president, as michel barnier very well knows, both the eu and the uk worked very hard on the settlement scheme. it was a shared moral and legal responsibility. but we are here because this resolution fires more than one warning shot and people are concerned. that’s why the commission president, when she asked for questions, heard the concerns of people on citizens’ rights. why? i give you one example: the prime minister, just recently, in his decision to revise the withdrawal agreement bill to delegate the powers of the independent monitoring authority (people talk about windrush), which is responsible for overseeing uk policies towards eu citizens, to other bodies. instead of strengthening the independent body, given the history of our immigration and nationality system, given the injustices, given the shared moral and legal responsibility, this is the direction we were moving in. let’s be clear: these are genuine concerns of eu citizens and i say to the council, we have genuine concerns of uk citizens in the rest of the european union. if we don’t get this right, this will be a deep scar and continuing injustice that will define what happens in the future agreements. of course it will be for many years to come. so when people talk about the physical document or they talk about the declaratory system, they’re not talking about details – they’re talking about a system that may create injustice that would go on for years, that would have no independent resolution and that would be part of the jurisprudence and moral narrative that is built. that is why michel barnier and others made citizens’ rights so important in the first place, and that is why this resolution fires the warning shot, which must be heard.
madam president, just a word to say why this resolution is so important. i felt, as many of my colleagues did before today's speech, that the citizens' issue should be a priority and at the heart of the forthcoming negotiations. i wanted mr barnier, whose work i know he has already done, to know that parliament will be behind him, unanimously, to remind him that there will be no agreement in the future if we do not integrate citizens' rights. i am more convinced than ever of what i am saying now, of the need for this resolution and the need for us to see it very broadly. i find it shameful that the representatives of the british far right, after all the lies they have told to achieve a scandalous victory for brexit, are now coming to beg for a trade agreement with the european union, while not respecting the rights of citizens! i'm telling them in the face, clearly, that you won't get a deal if you don't respect the rights of people. it is a rule that this parliament will impose on you, whether you like it or not.
madam president, this is probably going to be the most difficult speech that i’m going to give as a member of this parliament. i ran to be an mep to fight for more rights for citizens in the european union. and now millions of european citizens are going to lose rights, and there is absolutely no way for me to talk this positive in any way. but i would like to end – and we are approaching the brexit date – with two positive messages. the first one is that all eu citizens in the uk have to be absolutely sure about the fact that there are dozens and hundreds of meps working here in this parliament to keep this your parliament as well. we will work tirelessly to defend your rights here in this parliament. and the second one, and this goes out to all the people in the uk who are heartbroken right now. and i know that even with this movement that is unique in european history, it has not been possible to put this decision back to the people. but these demonstrations and all the signs and all the tweets and all your votes there were not in vain. you built something absolutely beautiful over the past years and this is the largest pro-european citizens’ movement that we have seen, and we will build on that. and trust me, one day i will see british meps being re-elected to this chamber. (applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the goodwill of mainstream politicians and commentators, the british people have once again expressed their will. like it or not, we're sorry, but it's called democracy. we are all called upon to build a new and positive partnership between the european union and the united kingdom: the protection of the rights of eu citizens living in the uk is certainly one of the most sensitive issues, but we must acknowledge that positive progress is being made, although we certainly need to improve the bureaucratic procedures to allow those who are entitled to do so to apply for permanent residence in time. there are about 700 000 italians living in the uk, many of whom are young recent immigrants; we must not only guarantee them the protection of their right to stay, but also give them back the hope of returning home to italy and building a new life there: that is also a fundamental right.
madam president, more than three million european citizens in the uk were told by boris johnson and michael gove that nothing would change: they would get the automatic right to remain and they would be treated no less favourably than before brexit. they heard our colleague daniel hannan, who is not here today, say that it was irresponsible to scare eu nationals in the uk by hinting that their status might change after brexit. and we even heard from nigel farage, saying that they could stay and enjoy the same rights as uk citizens because, he said, to row back on that would class you as a banana republic. yet here we are today. automatic rights and favourable treatment have quickly transformed into talk of deportations and a hostile environment. the british government seems to have learned absolutely nothing from the windrush scandal. and a system is put in place that will probably never reach all the citizens that need it and, by its design, puts many vulnerable citizens at risk of losing rights. the consequence is uncertainty and anxiety for eu citizens in the uk. because, regardless of mr van orden’s semantic point before, many people have already experienced loss of their rights. if the uk wants to become a banana republic, of course that is its choice after brexit. but those three million citizens in the uk are our responsibility now. and we need to stand up for them and make sure that they will not be the biggest victims of this brexit. this has been the parliament’s consistent position ever since the referendum and it is now the time to make crystal clear how serious we are about that.
president. - the debate is closed. then the british will leave us and in january 2021 the divorce must be finalized. hopefully, there will be some agreement about the future relationship, but my concerns with this separation are about people, about the employees who are paying a heavy price in this separation. both the divorce and the future relationship must be social. we have to maintain social standards. we do not want singapore on the thames at our doorstep. the uk must also continue to meet its social obligations, such as the payment of pensions, also to eu citizens who have contributed to them. our future relationship must not be at the expense of the working conditions of british and european citizens. brexit is no excuse for a race to the bottom, but i have to say: i hold my heart.
madam president, as a councillor in south london i’ve seen first hand the uk government’s cruel treatment of the windrush generation, who came to our shores to help keep britain great. i have seen these people denied citizenship. people who have lived in the uk for their entire lives suddenly find themselves denied work, homes and access to health care. instead of scrapping the policies which have driven these gross injustices, this uk government is working to expose those of the three million eu citizens in the uk who fall through the cracks to exactly the same broken, heartless system. one million of these eu citizens live in my constituency of london. i am their mep and i refuse to sit back while their rights are torn up and they are plunged into imminent danger. we can’t trust this british government to protect citizens’ rights, so i plead with all meps who are lucky enough to remain in this chamber for another four years – please, do not stop fighting for the rights of eu citizens in the uk and british citizens in your countries. help us hold our own reckless government to account. (applause)
madam president! the last words of prime minister plenkovic were: "let us remain united". then the speeches of the council, the commission, the political groups showed that we are united, that the first concern was the people, the people, the citizens of the european union living in the united kingdom and the british living in the european union. that's also 1 million poles. president von der leyen also spoke about this when she mentioned the polish chef. we are left with 440 million citizens of the european union united. i would like to ask you very much that, whatever the interests involved, we should remember the 440 million citizens of the european union. i also want to remember about the 38 million citizens living in poland. so in this divorce process, we, as the european union, are the stronger party. let's take advantage of that.
madam president, one question of course is if the arrangements are going to be adequate, but another question is how it will be implemented and do we trust the johnson government to do that properly? i have to say that the signs so far are no reason for confidence. and if i hear the sounds coming out of the brexit corner of this house, i am really incredibly worried because it’s not warm and welcoming, as they say. i’ve been asking myself who benefits if we strip five million people of their rights? what is the purpose of leaving five million citizens in limbo? why do they have to be penalised? what is their crime? and the point is: there is no purpose, there is no reason, nobody benefits. it’s a stupid vindictive campaign against people who have done nothing wrong, who didn’t even have a vote. now, no democracy should treat its citizens this way. no government has the right to just remove citizens’ rights or to retroactively impose new requirements, because citizenship is a right. it is not a privilege that can be removed at a whim, at the simple stroke of a pen. so we’ll stand up for all five million eu citizens. (applause) (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from robert rowland )
i am sorry, mr rowland, you have been refused. ms widdecombe is waving her blue card, but madam, you have already had the floor so i will move immediately to the next speaker on my list which is ms dowding for one minute.
madam president, to put this debate in context today, the latest poll in the uk says that the majority of uk voters would prefer to remain in the european union by 52% to 48% – the very same margin that won the brexit referendum three years ago but is now reversed. with over 3 million eu citizens in the uk, thousands of europeans who made my constituency in the north-west of england their home, who are valued by their employers and neighbours and friends, we absolutely need to ensure that citizens’ rights are properly protected and people are treated fairly and lawfully. right now, critical issues are arising for citizens who are currently applying for settled status. reports by lawyers indicate that, despite the uk government claiming that the process should take one to four days, some people are waiting months, leaving them without essential status documentation and rendering them unable to get jobs or rent a home. this is not a demonstration of a system offering kindness and consideration. we call upon everyone here in the european parliament to ensure that the uk government upholds its commitments to protect eu citizens’ rights. because that is also what will surely determine the reciprocal arrangement by the uk for uk citizens in the eu. (applause)
madam president, this parliament is right to debate this today ahead of its vote in two weeks’ time on the brexit withdrawal agreement. it’s right to do so because from the very start of this process, the conservative government has made things difficult for citizens of other eu countries in britain. first it used them as bargaining chips in the negotiations, and now it is unwilling to provide a system that gives them full guarantees. let me take just one example: the refusal to give a physical document. that seems designed to make it difficult for citizens to prove their status to prospective employers or to landlords. it seems designed to make life difficult for them. and now, boris johnson has an increased majority, won, let us recall, on only 43% of the vote. won despite 53% voting for parties offering a new referendum on brexit. but he will use this majority to harden his brexit. we have already seen him put in british law a refusal to extend the negotiating period beyond a year. the uk government wants the shortest possible transition period, making it impossible, frankly, to solve the plethora of problems that brexit will throw up, this included. instead, the uk government must listen to this parliament and remember that the european parliament also needs to approve the withdrawal agreement and, above all, it should use the transition period to reflect again on the question of freedom of movement and let another generation enjoy the rights that our generation had the privilege to have. (the speaker declined a blue-card question from robert rowland )
madam president, the uk joined the european community before i was born. for 47 years, eu citizens have been confident of their rights in the uk. a friend of mine who moved to the uk 40 years ago thought she would never have to choose between her birth country and the uk. her rights have been changed hugely by brexit, and that is a very different situation from all those who moved to the uk from the rest of the world. my friend married, brought up her children, divorced, worked for decades as a chaplain supporting the most vulnerable in her community. now in her late 70s she is razor sharp and fully aware of the impact brexit has on her and her rights. but there are many like her, elderly women who moved to the uk with their husbands over 40 years ago, who are not so able. many who have dementia or other health issues, which make it even harder to prove their right to remain – just as importantly their rights to access critical services such as health and social care. the current application process is not easy, particularly for those who are unaccustomed to filling in online forms. the information that only a tiny proportion are refused is yet another example of why so many do not trust the conservatives. millions have applied and not been granted settled status. they remain in legal limbo with status neither granted nor refused and their rights not guaranteed. we fear for another windrush scandal, and the sick and the vulnerable will be most at risk.
madam president, i say to the house: this debate reminds us that brexit will not be done on 31 january. it’s not a ready-meal as mr johnson would have us believe. it’s a complex dish that’s never been cooked before, has no recipe, two chefs in different kitchens, it’ll cost us a fortune and it risks giving us all indigestion for many years to come. i jest, but citizens’ rights are no laughing matter. as we have heard in today’s debates there are real problems with the eu settlement scheme in the uk. unreasonable demands for additional evidence, lack of support for vulnerable people, threats of deportation, the risk of another windrush scandal on an even bigger scale and erosion of the independent monitoring authority. these must be addressed. it’s a bitter irony that members of this european parliament will have more of a say over the future uk-eu relationship than members of parliament in the uk. because boris johnson has removed any capacity for the uk parliament to have a say over negotiations or powers of scrutiny. our uk political system is broken. the challenges of the next 11 months are enormous. there’s much to negotiate, little time, the risks of no deal remain high. in the uk, i and my colleagues will be doing everything we can to fix our failing democracy and scrutinise our government’s actions. colleagues, please stand with us, together let us defend our shared european values, standards and citizens’ rights. (applause)
ms chowns, mr rowland is on his third attempt at a blue-card question. will you accept?
madam president, i see no reason why i should give further airtime to the childish bigotry and behaviour of the brexit party. (the speaker declined a blue-card question from robert rowland)
madam president, the big issue today breaks into two parts: the rights of eu citizens in the united kingdom and the rights of british citizens in the eu 27 countries. but the underlying problem is the same: right—wing, dictatorial, nationalistic populism. notwithstanding mr van orden’s fine words, we fear a bonfire of our human rights. we europeans in britain will fight tooth and nail to protect those whose status our home office threatens. my postbag is crammed with pleas from brits desperate not to lose their european rights. you have the power to protect them, to protect us. please do not require a quid pro quo but be generous to us. i – to paraphrase socrates – am not only a citizen of scotland and britain, but of europe and the world. and i don’t want to lose any of those identities. (applause)
i refer to ms chowns’ response. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from robert rowland)
madam president, i am one of three million eu citizens who were denied the vote in the 2016 referendum. i now have a british passport, but it cost me nearly gbp 1 500. many simply cannot pay this fee, even if they qualify. this deliberate tax on voting is part of the uk government’s hostile environment for unwanted residents. i have long called on our government to lower the fee for becoming british. but cost is only one hurdle. losing eu citizenship is another. eu members should allow uk residents to retain their original citizenship, whether they become british during the transition period or after. it is crucial for them to know that they will not lose their rights as eu citizens. finally, i call on the eu to create an associate eu citizenship for those uk nationals who, like many of my constituents, wish to remain close to our european neighbours and continue to enjoy the freedoms under the eu treaty. this is good for the uk, for uk citizens, it is good for the eu, who will benefit from inward investment, and it is good for the continuation of a friendly relationship we so urgently need. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from robert rowland)
madam president, i rise to speak on citizens’ rights, on behalf of citizens who are losing important rights that they’ve relied upon for decades. promises were made. people changed their homes, changed their lives, got married, had children, made plans for the future, and now because of self—serving politicians and a broken electoral system, those promises are being broken. now citizens who live, work, study, pay taxes and are deeply embedded in their communities are being treated as outsiders. they’re being forced to prove where they were and what they were doing for a matter of years when they were never supposed to save those documents. they’re living with uncertainty. this is wrong. no one is standing up for their rights. this parliament is uniquely able to send an unmistakable message to the uk government, to the council and the commission. please send the message that the european parliament stands up for all its citizens.
madam president, when the commission presented the green deal in december it was very clear this is a change. this is really a new commission with a new focus and new priorities, and that we fully support and we are really standing behind that, but then of course the big question is going to be: will there be investment? because we all know this is not a minor change, this is a change, this is a transition in all the sectors, in all the regions, in all the countries of europe. and that also desires investment, and there i have to say – and i can’t fully judge yet because i haven’t seen the final proposal, but of course we’ve seen earlier versions – but is now the real green deal, with a new policy, really matched by new policies on investments? until now, i don’t think so. first of all, it seems like the same old discussion on the european budget that was started by the previous commission, and secondly, when we are talking about a sustainable investment plan, i sincerely hope it’s not just another juncker investment plan 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, where are we now? we really have to look at additionality and changes of the eib there. so this really desires fundamental change. that’s possible. it’s possible when we are looking at green public procurement there we can really make a change. but also we need to address changes in fiscal policies, and if then in the draft we see that you are planning a debate, and the outcome of that debate will form the basis for any possible future just steps – including how to treat sustainable investment – that doesn’t read like the change that we need also in our fiscal policies. so i hope the final version will be better.
madam president, commissioners, the commitments the eu has made in the field of energy are clear and very high-minded. but no region should be left behind in the quest for a more sustainable future, which will require it to change the foundations of its economy. i am very pleased that the commission has come up with a proposal for a fund to help these regions to transform their economies into completely different areas. i'm a little skeptical about the table calculations, but it's clear that this is going to be a billion-euro need across the eu. it will therefore be important to produce an impact study to show what this change will mean for each region. i see the close links with the cohesion funds as problematic for the cee region. i am afraid that there will be great tension not only between the member states but also between the regions.
madam president, we have now reached a tipping point where we see clear evidence of job destruction across europe due to the insane green policies of the eu. the promised job creation is an illusion propagated by our masters in the commission who roll out their seven year soviet—era gosplan in the misguided belief they know how to create economic wealth. most of these career bureaucrats have never created a business in their life, and certainly don’t have any understanding of what they’re doing to the industrial base of europe. this is not schumpeter’s ‘creative destruction’ – this is a made-in-europe version of destructive destruction. the german automotive industries already announced over 40 000 job losses due to forced conversion to electric vehicles. the promise of green new jobs reminds me of the american major in the vietnam war who said ‘to save a village, you first have to destroy it’. the same economically illiterate logic is used by the eu commission. they think they have the power to magically create new jobs once they have destroyed existing ones. the unjust transition fund budget of just over eur 30 billion is meant to assist countries such as poland and the czech republic. my prediction is that the number will triple as the commission pays for the folly of the green new deal and is forced to rescue large swathes of europe’s obsolete industrial base that has been intentionally destroyed. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – i’m not sure there was a question there, but it gives me a wonderful opportunity just to reiterate. i will give you an example in the uk. ex-chancellor hammond said the cost of the net zero target for 2050 was gbp 1 trillion. we have not had an impact assessment in the uk. i would urge everyone in this chamber, before they sign off on this green new deal, to ask the commission, mr timmermans, what the impact assessment is on everyday jobs. for example, in the uk, we currently pay gbp 12 billion a year in renewable obligation certificates and other forms of green levies that go directly on household bills. it is a regressive tax and the poorest pay it.
mr president, i thank mr borrell for his statement and echo his words on all the recent lives lost, including those on flight 752. the e3 initiation of the jcpoa dispute process deserves cautious welcome. rules-based diplomacy is always better than random insults and threats on twitter. but was the eu consulted beforehand on this important initiative by three of its own member states? can i check that the british government, in particular, did not play brexit with middle east peace by blocking higher level eu involvement? you cannot trust the current british government to stand up to trump’s dangerously unpredictable approach to this region, so desperate are they for a us trade deal. indeed our clueless prime minister has just called for the replacement of the current iran peace deal with a trump deal, contradicting his own foreign secretary, who says the uk is still committed to the jcpoa. i hope we all are, and that the eu will now play a more active role in de-escalating tensions and particularly encouraging understanding on all sides of the need for parliamentarians and protesters in both iran and iraq to have their say, without fear of disproportionate reprisals and response.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new year has opened with a crisis of potentially dramatic proportions. the targeted killing by the pentagon of general soleimani, a senior iranian official and the probable heir to ayatollah khomeini, was a unilateral, irresponsible and illegal act under international law, which was carried out on the territory of a third state, iraq. yet to think that there is no clear strategy behind trump's action is as wrong as it is naive: it is a muscular, unbiased, power-based strategy, and therefore aimed at meeting american strategic objectives. what can be our european role in the face of an agenda which counts on bringing down the iranian government through targeted force and the massive use of economic sanctions, which are bringing the iranian people to their knees? given tehran's measured military response, we have a major negotiating window open. i believe that we as a union must respond positively to the openness of minister zarif, by playing the role of clear, transparent and balanced mediators, champions of multilateralism, starting with the nuclear agreement to extend it and, if necessary, strongly defending its essence.
madam president, as aristotle recognised, we can be blamed only for what is up to us. but what exactly is up to us? the unfolding situation in iran invites us to reflect on this puzzle. once again, ukraine finds itself the tragic recipient of collateral damage that was hardly foreseeable, but how enthusiastically should we side with the citizens of iran challenging their regime and its military and holding them responsible for targeting a passenger plane? for sure, human error might seem like a partial excuse, but equally, human error could, and should, have been foreseen and precautions taken. on the other hand, some actions are neither accidental nor excusable, and where aggression precedes self-defence we should not hesitate to apportion blame, especially if the perpetrator was once our ally. the obligation for de-escalating a crisis must fall to the aggressor and not just to those tempted to retaliate.
madam president, before christmas i told this parliament that the nuclear agreement with iran, the jcpoa, was dead and we urgently needed a plan b. mr borrell, high representative, it gives me no pleasure to say this but it is true, and the eu needs to wake up. the jcpoa is not sustaining peace and security. it is now starting to do the opposite. america has left the agreement, iran has restarted its uranium centrifuges, germany, france and the uk have triggered the dispute mechanism, iran has threatened reprisals against eu members. the only way to keep nuclear weapons out of iran, restore trade, free political prisoners and support human rights is to restore friendships in washington, not tehran. as well as turning the centrifuges off and thinking again about human rights, plan b has to include iran’s agreement to stop supporting its proxy attacks against the us. then, in return, the eu can do what it does best, namely trade. the eu needs to recognise that only the us has the resource, the relationships and the firepower to underpin the successful alternative to the jcpoa and peace in the region.
madam president, i say to commissioner borrell: amid ongoing tensions between iran, the us and the uk, the eu must step up as a mediator. any discussions you have with your iranian counterpart should prioritise the protection of eu citizens. a number of eu nationals are being held illegally in iran, including my constituent, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, who has spent almost four years in prison. her treatment is part of a pattern of hostage diplomacy by iran and must be taken seriously. nazanin’s husband, richard, is here at parliament today and tomorrow, and i am urging you to accept my invitation to meet with the two of us. he and the other families of unlawfully detained eu citizens want to see you put their loved ones first. human rights cannot simply be a ‘nice to have’, they are non-negotiable. it must be safe to travel, and this has to form part of any current or future agreement worked out with iran.
madam president, yet again, donald trump’s lack of forethought and sketchy understanding of geopolitics has kick—started a dangerous chain of events, following the us air strike which killed general qasem soleimani in iran. hopes of tensions calming have been dashed by the shooting-down of the ukrainian passenger plane. and my heart goes out to the families and friends of those who have been killed. these incidents have ignited a tinderbox, and we’ve now seen days of protests and strong language on all sides, including from the uk’s prime minister today. the us should not have withdrawn from the iran nuclear deal. i certainly disagree with johnson, who wants to replace it with a trump deal. this situation is highly dangerous. for the sake of the protection of everyone’s human rights across the globe, but especially those who are the most vulnerable – that always includes women and children – we must try to defuse the situation, and i call on you to do so.
madam president, colleagues, do you know where your christmas cards were made? in december, a young girl in the uk found a message in one of her charity christmas cards pleading for help. it was not from the sender, it was from the person who was forced to make the card in a chinese prison cell in inhumane conditions. consumers in the richest countries of the world enjoy cheap throw—away products and turn a blind eye to the real cost. manufacturers and retailers, including many european household brands, do not know and do not want to know what happens at the bottom of their supply chains. we must act urgently to have eu—wide legislation that makes supply chain due diligence mandatory. companies must ensure that the low price of their products is not at the expense of human rights or the environment.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that both parliament and the new commission have, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, placed a great deal of emphasis on the organisation of this conference, suggesting that this will be a pillar of the programme for the next five years, a pillar of a reform of the european union, the need for which, with obviously different compositions and outcomes, is felt by all the parties and all the groups. but i do not think that this exercise is useful in answering what the citizens have told us in recent years and especially with the elections in may. the citizens have not asked us to organise conferences, to organise debates, to organise now, but for years they have asked us for concrete answers, they have asked us for action. so the problem is not listening to the citizens, we know what they want, the problem is political. the problem is that these institutions have not been able, over the years, to give concrete answers, to make policy, to respond to the three major problems facing european citizens today, namely the economic crisis, internal security and immigration, which is a subject which i believe is also missing from parliament's resolution and which cannot be ignored. i believe that this kind of exercise can make sense if, before making proposals, this house and these institutions are able to make a profound self-criticism of what they have done wrong in these years, because mistakes have been made and they have been serious mistakes, which have led the continent to sink, to no longer count for anything on the international political scene. if we do not understand that the reforms and policies that have been carried out over the last 20 years have done nothing but weaken states, weaken our continent, make our citizens poorer, then any proposal we are going to discuss will be just a marketing exercise that will make no sense. i believe that the aim is to understand where we have gone wrong (and unfortunately the institutions have not yet made a thorough self-criticism), to understand that, contrary to what my green colleague said, the issue is not to create a federal state - something that the citizens do not want, something that the citizens, when asked to express their views, have always said they are against - but that we must start from our identities, that we must start from the awareness that without states, without our nations, without our peoples, europe does not exist.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i will be talking about the resolution that will be coming from this chamber and my main point is that everything in this resolution is wrong. it is wrong because article 48(4) of the treaty on the european union states clearly that it is the council, not parliament or the commission, that can convene such a conference. i know that the attitude of this chamber and of the commission towards the treaties has been consistently rather cavalier, but let us at least remember that we are deviating from what the treaties have stipulated. so the attitude is that the aim justifies the means, the aim being ever closer union justifies the means, even distraining and ignoring the letter and the spirit of the treaties. it is wrong because the whole procedure to produce this document was a disgrace. the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) excluded two groups from serious involvement in drafting its opinion and fixed the voting list in advance. five groups prepared the document in secret and excluded two groups from having any input in the draft text. in case you don’t know, ladies and gentlemen, this is foul play. this is the tyranny of the majority. this is foul play. it is wrong because it gives the european parliament the leading role in the process to the detriment of national parliaments, and the democratic legitimacy of national parliaments is far, far greater than that of the european parliament. it is wrong because it gives the real power of the conference into the hands of an inner cabal, called the board, which will no doubt include only the representatives of the five political groups. so you have the tyranny of the majority again. it is wrong because it has a predetermined outcome as we have heard this morning. the conference is simply regarded as a springboard for the next great leap forward in european integration, including a transnationalist spitzenkandidat process and greater competences for the union at the expense of the member states, so do not talk about consultation. this will be fake consultations because the aim is already specified. it does not really require much intelligence to predict that all this will exacerbate the divisions in europe, which are already quite deep and disconcerting. but we should not be surprised. the advocates of ever closer union have always been very good at antagonising people. it is said that human beings learn from mistakes. maybe they do, but apparently most members of the european parliament don’t.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this year we will finally have the chance to resume the serious debate on the change which we have been calling for for years. with the bitter, i dare say traumatic, warning of brexit in mind, we must take advantage of this precious opportunity not only to discuss the new european agenda but above all to unlock the most ambitious reforms: the social pillar, the fiscal union, a truly solidarity-based management of immigration. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. we cannot allow the possibility that this conference will also bring about a reform of the treaties and the institutions, starting with the introduction of the right of initiative for our parliament, to be excluded a priori. the citizens must be the real protagonists of this process and we, as a parliament, must be at the forefront of defending their participation, their voice, their dreams and their hopes. colleagues, let me give you a clear warning. this conference cannot and must not be a mere exercise in style, a media fig leaf: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the world today is pervaded by three feelings: anger, fear and hope. which of the three will prevail depends solely and exclusively on us.
mr president, i would like to say that, 10 years after the lisbon treaty, it is really time to prepare our union for the next decade. we need a very, very deep and broad debate and discussion to prepare our institutions and to prepare our union for the challenge of the future. this is the scope and the reason for organising this conference. what is really different is that this time, we want to use in the preparation all the skills and all the tools that we have available to engage citizens in this debate. this is our goal. but this is what we call participative democracy, this is true. but, be careful: we don’t want to mix participative democracy with representative democracy. one thing is to listen and to consult citizens, to engage them, to bring them committed to our debate. another thing is institutional representation, with all the liberal heavy touch from our rule—of—law states and we should keep these two spheres very clearly separated, even if we have to engage in this project in a manner that we can use all the impulse that citizens will give us. so, my hope is that we can, for the first time, have a process of reform of the european union where citizens are really heard and where their opinion matters.
madam president, let’s give a common conclusion here. that is that, for the first time – nearly 20 years, i think, after the start of the convention, the three institutions agree again on the necessity for an in-depth reform of the european union. this is already an important fact because it is 20 years after the start of the previous convention and, for the first time, these three institutions say, ‘ok, an in—depth reform of the union is absolutely needed’. i will not contradict or have a debate with mr legutko because, in the meanwhile, he is no longer here in the plenary. the reason why we want this conference is because there are problems that we recognise in the european union. when we have brexit, a big country that is leaving the european union, it’s difficult to say, ‘oh, fantastic, we work well’. no, it’s a problem. we have a problem when a big country is leaving the union and when, five years after the start of the migration crisis, we still don’t have a reform of the dublin regulation. we have a problem in the european union when, ten years after the outbreak of the financial crisis, we still do not have a banking union in the european union. we have a problem. and when russians and americans are deciding everything in our neighbourhood – in syria and in libya and in ukraine – well, we have a problem. in fact, the reality is that, on the international stage, we are mocked by putin, we are blackmailed by erdoğan, we are bullied by trump, and mostly we are ignored by the chinese government. that’s the reason why we want to reform europe; not because we say ‘we are europeans and everything is going well’, and it’s over. no, tomorrow it will be a different world tomorrow, dominated by what i call empires, like china, like india, like russia, like america. that doesn’t mean that we have to become an empire – on the contrary – but we want to defend a europe in which our children and grandchildren can survive in this new world, which is not the case today. we have to do it with a new method, not like in the convention. in the convention it went from the top down and at the top, with valéry giscard d'estaing, the top was something very impressive and present. we have to do exactly the opposite, not in contradiction, but from the bottom up – going up from the citizens so that we can create. after the generation of monnet and schuman and after the generation of kohl and mitterrand, we need a third movement, a third movement with, i would say, the vision of the first and with the courage of the second generation. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 171(8))
mr rowland, you are lucky today!
blue-card question. – i do feel lucky with you, madam president. mr verhofstadt, we’re talking about the future of europe, but one of the key concerns of mine for europe, and for your future, is your dependence on your geopolitical foe. you mentioned russia and putin, but recently the nord stream 2 channel pipeline, which will bring gas from russia into europe, was completed with the denmark signing of a further eur 150 million to complete that. do you agree with me that europe has no chance to be energy-independent while it is still reliant on russia?
madam president, i would like to talk about not only the problems, what are the opportunities and what are the solutions we could find for the future of europe. this conference on the future of europe is a timely democratic exercise. as you heard already if brexit was about the eu, it was to mute the progressive agenda of the european project. when the people of scotland voted to remain in europe we meant it. trust us to continue and to promote outward looking, internationalist european values. those values are firmly at the heart of our vision for scotland. this conference is needed because we are under attack. we are under a populist attack. politics doesn’t stand still. we either go forward or we go backwards. this conference is the way forward for all member states, including future member states. scotland is a future member state. no doubt about it. let’s start by scotland then other parts of the united kingdom will follow. voltaire said a long time ago, we look to scotland for all our ideas of civilisation. one innovative idea we have developed in scotland, is to enshrine into law the democratic participation of all people living in scotland, wherever they come from, whatever their nationality. wouldn’t it be fantastic to also include the contribution of all the people living in europe to this conference, not only eu citizens. in scotland our devolved institutions are based on european laws. the foundation of modern scotland comes from the eu. scotland is looking forward to contribute to the debate as a future member state of the european union. (applause)
blue-card question. – mr bardella, would you agree with me that the name of this conference is a misnomer? it really ought to be ‘the future of the european union’, not ‘the future of europe’. and would you also agree with me that the conference could actually be dispensed with, because the future of the european union is actually quite dire and will dissolve quite soon?
the president! when citizens see that despite the european green deal, laws are being passed that will allow empty lorries to be driven across europe every two months in the name of protectionism, they have little faith in european values. as the pro-union forces increasingly battle over the european union's budget, which is actually one per cent of gni, or twenty times less than the us federal budget, and at the same time reduces cohesion resources, the already complex demographic situation will mean a flow of new people from the european periphery to the richer countries, making the differences between european countries even greater. the citizens won't believe that either. when the demand for greater european sovereignty at the global level is limited to the fact that some of the largest countries can represent europe individually at the global level, this is also not pleasing to the citizens of other countries. and finally, if we are citizens in the european parliament elections, the pan-european lists will contain candidates who, in more than 90% of cases, they have never heard of, and would not like to hear about. we can only reduce what is good for us in europe today, and not achieve anything else. thank you.
madam president, the future for the united kingdom is bright, full of opportunity, as we have the political certainty of leaving the eu in just two weeks’ time. the opportunity to run our country as we want, not as the eu tells us. the opportunity to be a high—growth, low—tax, smartly regulated economy that competes on the world stage without unnecessary bureaucracy and protectionism. the opportunity to run a sensible, fair immigration policy that works for our economy, for our people. the opportunity to use state aid for our strategic industries and businesses. our employment levels are at record highs, our unemployment at record lows, especially for our young people. i suggest to you, madam president, the opportunity for the remaining eu27 countries can too be bright, if you reform, follow our lead and take back control. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, the conference on the future of europe should deal with nothing less than our common future. and where to go next should be decided by the most competent citizens, the europeans. so i'm glad we decided to do this. i've heard calls for change here in the past few years. i don't think i've ever heard a colleague say, "everything works perfectly, no changes are necessary". and that's why it's good that now we politicians are actually going to the market. let's hear what we should be doing differently, better. what is often true here in the brussels bubble may not and often is not well received by the citizens of our countries. europe is changing, the world is changing, we have new challenges in technology, security, the environment. we have to find answers to that, too. the worst thing we could do is do nothing, keep going backwards. for many, that would probably be the most comfortable solution, but it's a short-term solution, and it's the wrong solution. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question by raising the blue card. if it was up to me, i'd want to have only citizens, i'd want to have young people. i hear them when i travel through the regions, the czech republic. they want to be involved, we just haven't shown them the way. so let's sit down with them, we politicians, the institutions, the european commission, the representatives of the national parliaments, and let's listen to them. but for me, the driving force has to be our citizens.
madam president, brexit should serve as a dire warning to all of us as to what happens when ordinary people see the eu as distant, unaccountable and out of touch. it becomes terrifyingly easy for well—financed, far—right demagogues, aided and abetted by the populist gutter press, to turn people against it and whip up eurosceptic fear. in the uk, it’s too late. the damage has been done. but it would be an absolute tragedy if the eu didn’t learn lessons from the calamity that is brexit. so, if the conclusions of this conference are to be worth the paper they’re written on, the voices of citizens and civil society must be heard loud and clear. this process cannot be reduced to a tokenistic rubber—stamping exercise. it’s worrying that powerful lobbyists and big businesses find it easy to influence the politics of any government anywhere, while ngos and ordinary citizens are too often muted and kept in the cold. at this vital conference on the future of europe, it is absolutely critical that we seize this chance to amplify citizens’ voices of all europeans, which i and my country – as proud europeans – look forward to continuing to contribute to doing. (applause)
just briefly, ms huhtasaari, you are the next speaker but you also indicated to ask a question, which i’m not going to allow. i’m afraid that i’m subject to the rule of time, and my advisers tell me that i need to discontinue the blue-card system. i apologise for that, but we do have a formal sitting at 12 and we need to prepare the chamber, so you have to accept my ruling on this for now, and perhaps you could discuss this procedure at a future time. thank you for your cooperation and participation.
i love the blue-card system and i think it works. however, i cannot allow this debate to roll into the noon formal sitting. maybe you and your groups would take on board how good this debate has been and how interactive, and talk afterwards about how we might continue the process. but for now, i do not have one hour’s flexibility – i wish i did, but i don’t. so please, accept my ruling, and we will proceed with the debate and take on board my comments about, perhaps, reform for the future. now, ms huhtasaari – and without interruption – you have one minute.
mr president, europe is indeed at a crossroads. the majority resolution is clear: you want a sovereign eu state with its own government, its own taxes, its own army. that makes member states provinces. european conservatives want a different europe, namely a community of sovereign states, cooperation between states - that is very important - more power back to the member states and finally the abolition of the heavy bureaucracy we have. we are therefore going to launch a parallel process with a competitive and competitive project and we are going to debate this with the people in the member states. we also believe that the people should be able to express their own views in referendums. so ask the citizens, not all sorts of ngos and such, people everywhere in shady positions, but directly to the citizens. let them speak for the future of europe instead of subsidized organizations.
madam president, this is the best debate i’ve listened to in this chamber. well-chaired, madam mcguinness. there’s been some honest reflections, and even guy verhofstadt has shown humility: to quote him, he said ‘we have a problem’. you do. with all this talk about citizens’ assemblies and consultations, there’s a danger that it is superficially bringing citizens into the decision-making process, but is really stage—managed tokenism. actually, european citizens do speak out; they do debate freely all the time, without the help of bureaucrats. european citizens often shout their opinions loud and clear, in national elections, and in referenda, but they’re often dismissed by people here. when eu citizens dare criticize the eu institutions or eurozone austerity policies, many meps here in unpopular institutions and political parties put their hands over their ears or spit out insults. ‘you’re populist’, they say, ‘you’re far right’. i’m actually on the left! ‘you’re manipulated,’ they say to voters, ‘by misinformation or demagogues’. in other words, you can’t be serious about consulting citizens if you demonise those citizens unless they sycophantically act as cheerleaders for the eu. (applause)you seem to want to create ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this europe must be changed and turned upside down. we do not need another europe, but a completely different and new europe. enough with europe as a slave to the banks and the multinationals. enough with the europe of bureaucrats, lobbyists and finance. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the europe we want is the europe of the peoples, of freedom and of genuine democracy. the europe we want to build must stop illegal immigration, defeat islamic terrorism, protect the 'made in italy' and defend our companies and our workers. this is the great democratic revolution which we will carry forward with our backs straight and with the strength of those who truly represent the will of the italian people.
madam president, the hallmarks of british society are politeness, respect and modesty. but as those who sought to hijack the brexit agenda have found, we continue to be no simple ‘nation of shopkeepers’. when our values, democracy and sovereignty are threatened, the ‘bulldog spirit’ rises in our blood and the fightback starts. this is what happened in the recent election, which was convincingly won by boris johnson. the british public saw three years of delay, bullying, plotting and platitudes for what it was: a betrayal of british democracy. so as this stage of the brexit saga draws to a close, i trust that lessons have been learned to help a future uk-eu relationship. i trust that the eu hierarchy now realises the british people will not be taken for fools or pushed around moving forward. i sincerely hope we can find a route to effective cooperation and friendship. above all, i hope the eu can finally accept the choice of the british people to leave the eu. i think lech wałęsa summed up the situation well when he... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, four days ago, 12 dead migrants were added to the tragic list of victims between turkey and the greek islands. twenty people were rescued by the superhuman efforts of the greek navy, while unfortunately so many others are missing. the flows of migrants continue unabated, despite the bad weather, and turkey continues, in its usual practice, to flout international law. the new asylum plan, announced months ago, has not yet been put forward. what future for europe are we talking about today? there is no future without the participation of all countries in tackling the major common european problems. the emphasis on the protection of the external borders, which is also a concern of each member state, is important but not sufficient. we need a fair and equal distribution of refugees in all the countries of the european union, without exception, according to the criteria we have set. we heard nothing about it today. how can we dream of a united europe when each member state pursues a different policy of self-interest? when countries have closed their borders and refuse to take responsibility? let's be realistic and honest, fellas. we cannot talk about the future of europe without solidarity in action. migration threatens the cohesion and foundations of the european union, and its management undermines citizens' confidence in our values. we have a duty and an obligation to react immediately and effectively, but above all seriously and responsibly.
madam president, millions of people in my country don’t really understand how the european union works. they associate the eu with mythical rules on bent bananas and banning bagpipes, because of a right-wing media that has spread lies and disinformation for decades. but beware: we are not the only ones. brexit is a cautionary tale, and it could have happened to many of you. this conference on the future of europe is an ambitious project, and it needs to be if it is going to secure the future of this unique union of nations. i believe that people want to feel involved, enfranchised, represented and consulted. we are the democratically elected representatives of the european people and for them to have a proper say, this house must have legislative initiative. the council must become more transparent. people must understand the reason that progress is not being made. migration is a classic example, because national governments are blocking council. colleagues, cooperation between peoples, nations and cultures is the future. going it alone is not the answer, and the citizen’s voice is the most important one of all. (loud applause)
madam president, it was madame garcía pérez who reminded us at the beginning of this debate that the european union started with six countries. the vision then was that it would be a loose alliance of sovereign nations in a trading agreement with some sort of political cooperation, with a totally noble ideal that that would somehow promote peace. and if that had remained the vision, and was still the vision, i venture to say that i don’t believe that britain would now be leaving. but that did not happen. co-operation morphed into domination. sovereignty morphed into a superstate. and that is why britain is going, and i believe that when we have made a big success of being a competitor on your doorstep, others will follow us. and therefore if you want a future – not for europe, but for the european union, which is a different thing – learn the lessons of what has happened in the uk. (sustained applause)
madam president, today we have voted on perhaps the most important action the european union will ever take. the european green deal marks a necessary effort to stop climate change and protect biodiversity for good. the framework for action must be agreed at a european and international level. pollution never has, and never will, stop at national borders. it takes every individual, every local community, to act. in my home town of faversham, air pollution is three times in breach of legal limits, and the government in which our own mp is a minister permits it to continue. local councillors and the community are pushing our own environmental projects: we have become a plastic—free town. if you give communities power, they will fix their problems. europe’s new green deal promises prevention of environmental damage that harms us now and endangers our children’s future. we cannot go on destroying nature. we can use new technology to make a greener, cleaner future.
madam president, the climate and environmental emergency is one of the most important challenges facing humanity, and all states and players worldwide must do their utmost to fight it. europe urgently needs a new sustainable economic model that has to fit for the 2020s, meaning that it must combine social and environmental progress, reduce inequalities and improve the well-being of all, leaving no person and no place behind. the european green deal spans across the eu from romania to ireland. but guess what? the uk’s geographical area is right there: a big land mass that requires consideration if we are to really tackle the climate crisis. wales was the first country in the world to declare a climate emergency, and we want to work with our neighbours. we have to, and we want to. the european green deal must put all of europe on the path to long-term sustainable growth, prosperity and well-being. the eu as a global leader in climate action, and the european green deal must ensure that environmental, economic and social policies are developed to secure just transition and to pave the way for positive and sustainable social, industrial and economic change. wales will do its part, whether it’s inside the eu or outside.
madam president, i have supported this motion for a resolution. the target is clear, the course is undoubtedly correct. this is a very important challenge for our union, as it is for many countries, and also for the czech republic. we still have many regions that are not ready for this change, for the goals that we have set. i am convinced that this also represents a challenge to modernise the european economy and the economy of the nation states. what bothers me about this, though, is that some of the votes that have passed, in my opinion, are detrimental to the outcome. i'm sorry that nuclear power wasn't supported. i must say that i am also surprised that parliament does not want to quantify the impact of the various measures envisaged. all these are disappointments which, under normal circumstances, i would at least express by abstaining or voting against. i did not want to give a negative impression, and so i supported the motion. we need to remember the damage we've done to the planet and start to repair it, which is why i supported this bill.
madam president, the eu needs to tackle the climate crisis right now. the european green deal is a major policy tool to help us finally address inequalities across europe through the transition to a zero-carbon continent. this is why i’m so proud of the important role that we greens have played. the european parliament is finally addressing the need to respect our planetary boundaries, to phase out fossil fuel subsidies, and to ensure that women are at the heart of any green deal. but the work on the green deal is far from over. as greens, we will keep pushing the commission to implement a genuine green deal that integrates social protections, raises environmental ambitions and, crucially, engages people on this journey through citizens’ assemblies.
madam president, we would like to remind you of our strong commitment to our nations being at the forefront of the fight for the environment. this is vital for people and biodiversity. on the other hand, we cannot accept that the whole ecology is so binding on national sovereign policies and that this text confers on the european union exorbitant powers of a totalitarian nature. we have seen how a certain bureaucratic and ideological hubris underpinned the whole text. we have therefore tabled an alternative resolution to give this draft european green deal a much more responsible, coherent and realistic resonance, especially in view of the hundreds of billions of euros mobilised. it is clear that many groups in this house continue to support a soft consensus which, in our view, will in the long run be very damaging to europeans socially and economically. it is therefore with a clear conscience and responsibility in view of our high concept of ecology that we abstained.
madam president, 50 years ago lions, tigers and wolves were all endangered. today lions remain under pressure, tigers have flat-lined and wolves have rebounded. why? because broadly speaking lions live in poor countries, tigers live in middle-income countries, and wolves live in rich countries. the best thing that can happen to the environment is market capitalism. it was karl marx who taught that nature was a resource to be exploited, a doctrine that found brutal realisation in the smokestack industries of the eastern bloc. soviet communism turned lake baikal into a sewer and the aral sea into a desert, and poured so much oil into the volga that ferry passengers had to be told not to throw their cigarettes overboard. reforestation, increase in biodiversity, reintroduction of endangered species, these things are overwhelmingly happening in countries that have opened their markets to the world and have become wealthy enough to be able to afford them. the clue is in the name. if you want conservation, back the conservatives. (laughter)
madam president, colleagues, i voted strongly against the so-called european green deal. not just because it's the strange document of some new cult that's moving confidently toward serious psychological illness, but because of the grave hypocrisy that comes from that document. how dare you vote for a green deal when just a month ago you voted for thousands of empty trucks to be driven up and down europe, burning oil, just to be robbed of the business of the bulgarian carriers and the other eastern carriers? what's honest, burning oil or voting for fictions about the new cult? this green deal involves destroying coal-fired power plants in eastern europe. hundreds of thousands more people will be out of work, but at the same time the house is not supporting the preservation of the greenest form of electricity production, namely nuclear power. so this room bans coal, nuclear power, gas, and leaves only the plum and the bees. this is insane! at the same time, all the infrastructure, all the production is exported to china, the european union is de-industrializing. i can't understand it, this is where psychologists talk.
madam president, i strongly support the european green deal. the scale of the challenge is such that we need wholesale revolution, not just in what governments do, but it is also very important what we get citizens to do. the burden and the cost must not fall on those with the least resources or least income. we need to ensure that the populists do not exploit the fear that people have around the change, and the onus is on us to make sure that the people understand the importance not only of their work continuing, but also the sustainability of the planet. i’m pleased that, with my work in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), i’ve been able to lead on some of these issues for the financial services sector and bring in my report on benchmarks, which address this, but i’m very pleased to have voted for this and supported this.
madam president, i’m strongly in support of this cross-party motion for a resolution on citizens’ rights within the withdrawal agreement, and i express my commitment to supporting and fighting for eu rights in wales, and across the uk of course, after brexit. a new decade may have begun, yet the old ties refuse to be broken. with good reason. the eu and uk citizens’ rights are human rights. human rights are universal and protected not only at the eu level, but at many levels. the rule of law is a key point there. the eu has a solid record on protection of human rights. don’t step away from this. we need the eu to step up to protect the eu and uk citizens’ rights now more than ever. send a clear message, a resounding message, throughout europe that this parliament sees and hears the difficulties eu and uk citizens face without an automatic registration system. now act to protect those rights, please.
madam president, three million people from the eu 27 are part of our community in the uk. they include many of our teachers, nurses, doctors and farm, care and construction workers. they are our friends and neighbours. they are some of our spouses or parents of british people. i am appalled by the bureaucratic and threatening way in which the uk government is choosing to treat european citizens. it deeply offends british peoples’ sense of fair play. what kind of government makes people who have lived somewhere for years, contributing to society under laws that said they always could, now ask for permission to stay? what kind of government asks them to produce documents they do not have, and gets so many applications wrong that 90% of appeals succeed, and then refuses to give them a document to prove their status? it’s the government of boris johnson, in power on a minority vote and leading us from four years of stagnation into disaster. (applause)
madam president, it saddened me today in parliament that we’ve had to pass a resolution to ensure the rights of the many eu citizens in the uk and of british citizens living abroad. whilst i welcome that we passed this resolution, these rights should never have been put at risk by the british government because of brexit. the very first thing that theresa may should ever have done was to guarantee the rights of european citizens living in britain. it would have been a strong negotiating position and taken away years of unnecessary stress and uncertainty. now, we have a shoddy scheme, which depends on a pdf as a proof of settlement status, rather than any physical document or card. a pdf, we all know, can be doctored easily, so employers and landlords are, justifiably perhaps, concerned about forgery, which, once again, will lead to unfair discrimination. i hope that the british government will listen to people’s worries about this, as well as concerns passed in the resolution today. but british citizens are also worrying about their right to stay in european countries where they have made their homes. i would like to thank those member states who are already offering generous terms of settlement to those uk citizens who have taken residence in their country. i urge those states who have not yet declared their intentions to do so and to make their decisions known in good time.
madam president, the resolution makes reference to the withdrawal agreement as a balanced document. it is not a balanced document. if it was, we would not need to be passing the separate votes that are documented today. the reality is that european union citizens have right to be fearful because the system in the united kingdom that the home office operates is institutionally racist and institutionally xenophobic. anyone who has ever had to deal with casework on this subject will know that. it is also a mistake to end freedom of movement. it is the greatest grab back of rights to the state from the individual since 1688. uk citizens who migrated to the european continent to make their lives see their life decisions made under one regime fundamentally altered under this regime by a decision of a minority of the british population and that is a great shame. it suggests in this resolution that these matters should be addressed before the withdrawal agreement is voted on. i don’t believe that that will happen so my support for that agreement is unlikely.
madam president, i voted for this resolution concerning the 3.2 million citizens resident in the uk from the eu and the 1.2 million uk citizens resident in the eu. last year, the uk home office suggested that people who had not applied to formalise their status by 30 june 2021 could theoretically be deported. this has generated considerable anxiety. this resolution stresses that europeans living in the uk need to be issued with a physical document as proof of their right to reside. not having physical proof has left eu citizens exposed to a massive risk of future discrimination. the upcoming european parliament decision on whether to consent to the withdrawal agreement will depend on final assurances given by the uk on citizens’ rights. finally, i voted for this resolution because it also encourages the 27 eu member states to adopt measures that provide legal certainty for uk citizens in the eu.
madam president, i remain absolutely convinced that the decision by the uk to leave the european union is a huge mistake. however, if we are to leave, it is absolutely essential that the rights of eu citizens are protected, both those living in the uk and uk citizens living in other countries. today’s resolution on citizens’ rights, and the overwhelming support of the european parliament, was a clear message to the uk government that their current approach is simply not good enough. there is nothing to be gained by treating people as bargaining chips. i am personally heartbroken and heartbroken for our country that we will leave the eu, but i was pleased to vote for a resolution that safeguards the rights of citizens in this process.
madam president, i voted against this resolution because, whilst i constantly have argued since the referendum in 2016 that those eu citizens who wish to live in the uk should have their rights guaranteed and criticised the tory government for not doing so, they should be offered settled status, this motion criticises the government for the wrong reasons and says the process should be put down as declaratory, which obviously puts the burden of proof on the government, not citizens, and is ridiculous. this deprives a nationally sovereign government of having control over monitoring what happens in its own borders. i also think this motion has been politicised churlishly by including within it the idea that freedom of movement is a great tragic loss for the uk because to note this just spits in the eye of those who have explicitly voted to leave the european union with one key issue being freedom of movement. not wanting freedom of movement is not about being xenophobic, it is not about hostility to people from european countries moving to or working in the uk. that is divisive scaremongering. it is about control of borders. that is a key part of sovereignty and the decisions about which citizens have both full rights and full duties and many people become british citizens from european countries because they want to enjoy those rights and duties, and i welcome them as friends and allies.
madam president, two—and—a—half weeks prior to brexit, we need to examine the implementation of citizens’ rights in the uk withdrawal agreement, because there’s a sense of uncertainty for millions of eu citizens – especially for those applying for ‘settled’ status. there are many unquantified issues on how the rights of both the remaining 27 member states in the uk and uk citizens in the eu could be applied after the withdrawal. the eu 27 citizens, for instance, should – as a matter of urgency – be provided with proof of their rights to reside in the uk after the end of the transition period, and the british government needs to stop creating anxiety and threatening eu citizens with deportation. these announcements are not productive and only generate additional turmoil. prime minister johnson wants to agree on a positive future relationship by the end of december 2020 based on an ambitious free—trade agreement, but he has to know that the level of free movement granted for eu citizens after brexit would be a key factor in deciding the degree of future cooperation.
madam president, after years of agonizing negotiations we have voted the european parliament's position to protect the rights of citizens after the withdrawal of the united kingdom. we have done so with sadness, because we will miss our british friends who are pro-europe, but we will not miss the seats of the supremacist and reactionary national-populism which brought about brexit. but the message is clear: reciprocity. the european union will treat british people living in europe in the same way as the united kingdom treats europeans living in the united kingdom. i say this thinking of the 30,000 britons who live in the canary islands, and the 10,000 workers who cross the border into gibraltar every day, while maintaining the dignity of work in a corner where the british flag flies. but what i want to stress is that there is still a lot of work to be done to secure what is not clear and needs to be cleared up: the uk's participation in free movement, asylum and refuge policy, police and judicial cooperation against crime and ensuring the security of both britons and europeans against shared threats.
madam president, a lot of this debate seems to have taken place in a parallel universe, one that barely intersects with the reality of what’s happening. i was a regular and repeated critic of theresa may’s grudging attitude and her slowness in recognising the rights of settled eu nationals. but the system is now up and running and is working far better than the reciprocal systems of any member state that i can think of among the 27. it’s simply not true that people are denied – there’s no mechanism to deny people status. they can be asked for more proof. but all of these urban myths that we keep hearing – some of which came to me as a constituency mep, and when i looked into them, they turned out not to be as they first appeared – are serving to unsettle and alarm our friends and neighbours from eu member states. when i hear my liberal democrat colleagues in particular demanding written forms, or physical forms of id, when they oppose id cards as a party, and when i hear them criticising the uk government without a word of criticism for member states that have failed to reciprocate, i have to wonder what their motives really are.
madam president, can i enlarge on my vote just now for this parliament’s resolution on the british withdrawal agreement, including its frank criticism of the uk’s inadequate and arbitrary settled status scheme, which is already unfairly treating our eu 27 friends, neighbours, colleagues and family members in the uk. and can i pay tribute to guy verhofstadt, who has won many fans in the uk for his relentless focus on citizens’ rights during this process – including those of brits in the remaining eu member states. in paragraph 20, the resolution recognises the many uk citizens who don’t want to lose their european citizens’ rights, and calls for this lost to be mitigated. this could mean associate individual eu citizenship, which i would strongly support. if the idea of international citizens’ rights for foreign nationals seems odd, there is a successful example – and it’s britain. we have conferred citizens’ rights on irish citizens in northern ireland and across the uk, and give other citizens’ rights – including voting rights – to citizens of malta, cyprus and other commonwealth countries. so it can be done, and it would prevent this unique deprivation of rights from existing european citizens.
madam president, i have supported today's resolution, and i consider today's vote to be extremely important. we have sent a clear political signal that, in the context of the post-brexit settlement, the rights of eu citizens living on uk soil are of paramount importance to us. it's a strong policy, and in the future, when we're dealing with their final form, it's fair to say that, alongside economic cooperation and benefits, preserving the free movement of people, and especially eu citizens living in the uk, is a clear political priority. i am from the czech republic, 35,000 czechs are now living permanently in the uk and it is a political necessity for us to negotiate at the final stage such conditions that these people can continue to live with dignity on uk soil. so thank you for the appeal today, and i'm glad i supported it.
madam president, i voted against the resolution on the withdrawal agreement for two really basic reasons. the first is that it was hypercritical of the uk in terms of the processes that it has put in place in terms of welcoming our friends who want to settle in the uk. but, in fact, the uk is way ahead of the other 27 member states. it’s really important that rights are reciprocated for uk citizens and this resolution didn’t reflect that. the second thing is that this resolution, in its debate and proposal in terms of freedom of movement, completely ignores the referendum that we had in 2016. the ability for the uk to control its own borders is absolutely central to brexit, and this resolution completely fails to recognise that fact. in fact, this resolution is really just a very naked ploy to sabotage the brexit vote that we have in brussels at the end of this month, where the withdrawal agreement will be decided – its final fate decided – by you, my colleagues, the meps here. that’s why i voted against this resolution.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the swedish democrats have a different view on the article 7 procedure against poland and hungary, and we still support it. our dissenting opinion is still based on the view that we regard hungary as a sovereign, democratic state which must be given the right to decide for itself within its democratic process. we regard this reaction from the european union and from a wide range of countries as excessive and a little hysterical. we do not see any threat to democracy, human rights or the independence of the judiciary in hungary. the hungarian people must be given the opportunity to decide for themselves, within the framework of the democratic process, how their country is to be governed. the eu is doing everything it can to reduce national pride. it has even gone so far as to want to ban national symbols in the house, such as a flag on the table. i think it's completely crazy. i am and always will be a proud swede, i will continue to wear national symbols, no matter what the eu says to me. now i want you all to listen very carefully. you all in here are nationally elected to represent your national constituents and should be proud of that.
mr president, i would like to pay tribute to my friend, the brilliant english philosopher roger scruton, who sadly died this week. before christmas, he was awarded the hungarian order of merit in recognition of his contribution to liberating east european countries. part of that struggle for freedom for countries like hungary and poland was regaining their sovereignty from ussr domination. how ironic, then, that these article 7 proceedings are being used against hungary for daring to assert its democratic sovereign decisions today. this time it is the eu, not the soviet union, acting as a bully, deploying soft authoritarian tactics. i personally wouldn’t vote for fidesz or orbán, but the hungarian electorate did, in huge numbers. i personally am passionate about free speech and press freedom, but unlike some hypocrites in the eu who regularly censor ideas they dub as hateful, i genuinely respect diverse decisions made by diverse electorates around europe, even if i don’t agree with them. you say diversity is an eu value, but you ban diversity of opinion. you say liberal freedom is an eu value, but you illiberally deny free choice politically. you launch witch-hunts against those who don’t conform.
mr president, i am from romania, and in romania the previous government attempted to weaken the judiciary to affect the rule of law. we saw how people decisively – big numbers – came to the streets to defend the rule of law and they came out with the european flag in their hands, expecting that the european union and the institutions of the european union would stand by their side. so what did we do? the president of the country convoked a referendum and the people spoke loud and clear. more than 85% of the people said: we want a strong judiciary, we do not want overnight, un-transparent changes to the judiciary, we do not want mass pardoning and mass amnesty. so this is why, from the european parliament here in strasbourg, i say to the people of poland: we hear you, we stand with you, we defend you. and i say the same to the judges in poland: it’s our duty; we will fulfil it; we will stand with you to defend european values in every corner of europe. any attempt to weaken the judiciary, any attempt to intimidate judges, is unacceptable, and the european parliament will fight strongly. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - my dear fellow! you used very strong and clear words, and i have a question about how it fits into a blue card. i wanted to ask you what you would call the use of disciplinary measures, the disciplinary measures taken against judges, the de facto persecution of judges - i will be specific: one of them is here in the gallery, his name is waldemar żurek, judge juszczyszyn, tuleja, markiewicz, who has perhaps fifty-five disciplinary measures of this kind - for applying european law, the judgment of the european court of justice and for asking questions for a preliminary ruling to the european court of justice. what would you call it?
blue-card answer. – whenever politicians want to appropriate all power, then they want to neutralise any form of opposition. they will attack opposition; they will attack an independent judiciary; and they will just want judges and prosecutors under their control. it’s always a bad sign when politicians and governments want to limit the independence of the judges, of the judiciary. never should judges obey politicians. the judiciary is an independent power in the state, and this is how it should be. (applause)
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, none of you can say a word against me that i am biased against poland. i am a friend of poland and i will always defend the czech-polish friendship. but i have to say, when i read your bill on judicial reform, i got a chill in my back. i do not compare poland and i do not judge. i have often defended you, but let's use this debate not to divide and fight, but to sit down and start discussing the reform. it's not that we want to put anyone in a corner or criticize, but we just want to say unequivocally that some steps in your reform are beyond the red line that we in the czech republic have not crossed.
mr president, poland is one of the greatest nations in europe, and indeed in the european union. it has a long history of democracy. in fact, it practiced a form of democracy before any other modern nation in the european union. poland fought for 45 years for its freedom against the ussr. it is not for an institution which has, itself, appointed a political court – the ecj has 28 political appointments amongst it, or for an institution which has a government in the form of the commission that is entirely unelected, to hold to account the law and justice party, which has been elected twice to govern poland on its manifesto, including the reform of its judiciary. so what i have to say to the law and justice party is this: do not put up with the ignominy of this institution. polexit. you will find a friendship in the united kingdom. we will support you. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, while the upcoming un biodiversity conference aims to build a common future for all life on earth, when it comes to britain’s seas, the eu’s attitude is little more than take, take, take. just look at the vast amounts of biodiversity killed in british waters by dutch electric pole fishing – a method banned by the chinese for being too efficient. or the super trawlers working in the channel – gigantic factory ships which scoop of whole shoals of fish together with anything else in the area, such as the under strain sea bass and highly intelligent dolphins. these death trawlers are blamed for nearly wiping out whole fisheries in east africa and destroying the incomes of some of the poorest people. these are only two small examples of the eu putting profit before biodiversity. until the eu takes action to stop practices which threaten the environment of its backyard, it has no right to lecture anyone else. the fact is, actions speak louder the words and the people are watching.
mr president, it doesn’t matter where we sit in this house or where we put our cross on the ballot paper. it doesn’t matter about the colour of our skin or the language that we speak. the biodiversity we have inherited is a precious resource that we all share and that we simply have to protect for our children and our grandchildren. the hideous fires in australia, in which half a billion animals are thought to have perished, should serve as a wake up call to all of us. we must take serious action now to set concrete binding targets to protect nature, reduce carbon emissions and address the climate emergency. the eu’s biodiversity targets set for 2020 will not be met. let’s try and do better before cop 15 with the 2030 targets. as i prepare to leave this house for the last time tomorrow, i implore you commissioner and all my fellow meps, to be radical, be passionate, be strong, stand up to the money men and the vested interests, the oil barons and the chemical giants. we only have one planet. i won’t be here to fight for it but you will, make sure you do. (applause)
member of the commission. – madam president, i listened very carefully to the comments that you made on this important matter. first of all, i would like to assure you all that, first, the commission is not indifferent to issues of potential conflicts of interest, and, second, we are certainly not taking lightly this, or any other, case involving a potential conflict of interests. it is not for the commission to play the role of an advocate for a decision taken by an independent body, the board of supervisors of the eba, but we do feel that we can shed some additional light. i’ll try to do so in view of the comments just made. first of all, the representative of the commission on the board of supervisors, who, i repeat, does not have voting rights, tried to get restrictions which were as strict as possible because there was indeed the finding that this case involved a conflict of interest. the board of supervisors looked very carefully into this matter and was of the view that the conflict of interest could be managed by imposing additional restrictions, such that go beyond the minimum condition applied to senior officials. so the length of the period prohibiting the lobbying contracts vis—à-vis the former staff is twice the duration as compared to the minimum, and so on. i won’t go into the details of the restrictions now, but the board had to weigh and find the right balance between the interests of the public, on the one hand, and the rights of a person to pursue their work. an important question was raised among others: who would monitor and ensure the implementation and enforcement of this decision? i would like to note that the decision by the eba board of supervisors includes a provision on implementation. the restrictions that were imposed will be communicated to the eba staff and they will be required to report to the chairperson on any contacts with mr farkas after he has left the service of the eba. furthermore, the eba is subject to an obligation to inform the public each year on the implementation of the prohibition on lobbying and advocacy, including a list of the cases assessed. mr farkas, as any other active or former staff member, is subject to the staff regulations and disciplinary proceedings could be opened against him in case of breach, including after his departure from the eba. were the eba board of supervisors or the european anti-fraud office (olaf) to become aware of evidence of failure, following an administrative investigation and eventual disciplinary proceedings, mr farkas could be subject to disciplinary measures, as defined in the staff regulations. i think this explains that not everything is left to chance. there are provisions in place that should ensure that these restrictions are properly implemented. to conclude, let me reiterate that the commission ensures – or tries to ensure – that high ethical standards are in place across all the agencies by having in place a harmonised legal framework. however, it is the responsibility of, in this case, the eba board of supervisors to implement this legal framework by taking decisions independently on post-employment restrictions, in accordance with its founding regulation and with the staff regulations. it is also the responsibility of the eba board of supervisors to ensure that these decisions are properly monitored and their implementation enforced. finally, the commission is always seeking to improve the existing framework. the existing ethical framework is the subject of constant review. we are looking for possible improvements, including, as i mentioned earlier, by setting up an independent ethical body and, i repeat, we are looking forward to close collaboration with the european parliament, the european ombudsman and other institutions in this process.
author. – madam president, colleagues, burundi is a beautiful country which has seen more than its fair share of tragedy. the report of the truth and reconciliation commission released this week identified more than 4 000 mass graves, with over 142 000 victims. in such a context, the role of human rights defenders, the role of freedom of expression in an unfettered press, are even more important. they are cornerstones of democracy and of sustainable peace building. we’ve been prompted to debate this topic today by the most recent example of burundian government repression of freedom of expression. burundi’s public prosecutor, on 30 december, asked for a 15-year jail term for four journalists and their driver, christine kamikazi, agnès ndirubusa, térence mpozenzi, egide harerimana, and adolphe masabarakiza, who was simply driving them. they were arrested in october when they were covering clashes between rebel and government forces and they’ve been accused of complicity with undermining the state. i understand the only evidence that’s been presented in the trial is a single whatsapp message. they are not the first. in july 2016, another reporter, jean bigirimana disappeared and has not been heard from since. in 2015 journalist christophe nkezabahizi, his wife and two children were murdered in their home in bujumbura and there has been no adequate follow up. human rights activist, germain rukuki, a member of action by christians for the abolition of torture (acat) was sentenced to 32 years in prison last year and nestor nibitanga, was also sentenced to five years. we call on the government to, immediately and unconditionally, release these journalists and these human rights defenders. there are upcoming elections in 2020 – an important point for the country. i welcome the fact that president pierre nkurunziza has said that he will not seek re-election, but in order for there to be credible elections, major changes – considerable improvements to the political and human rights situation – are needed. i urge burundi in the strongest possible terms to change course and create the conditions needed for an open and vibrant democracy and i salute the efforts of the journalists and human rights defenders who are working for that end.
madam president, we wholeheartedly condemn any terrorist attack regardless of where it happens but especially this one in nigeria as well. human rights abuses against women and children are the most pervasive in the world. they’re always the most vulnerable. they’re always the ones targeted right at the forefront of it and we must do everything we can to protect them throughout the world and especially in nigeria. we saw lots of girls being trafficked many years ago and some of them are still missing. the multinational joint task force has to go forward and has to do its work in conjunction, in my view, with the african union and all the actors that are on the african continent. i want to just say, for the last speech in the european parliament in strasbourg, that i want to thank every single person who represented wales very positively, sat in this seat throughout the time that the european parliament had direct elections. i want to thank all staff members, past and present for all the work they’ve done on behalf of the welsh people and the uk people and i want to thank all of those pro-european groups in wales and around the uk who have sprung up as a result of this terrible referendum result. keep up the good work. we will be back one day i hope and to the european parliament and parliamentarians in particular, they’ve been fantastic colleagues, thank you very much and ‘courage’.
member of the commission. – madam president, since last year, the human rights and humanitarian situation in nigeria has significantly deteriorated. over the past year, terrorist attacks and armed conflict have continued to claim thousands of lives. i want to express our condolences to the families of the victims and our solidarity with the people of nigeria, and in particular with the communities that have been so deeply affected by the insurgency of non-state armed groups, especially in the north-east of the country. the boko haram insurgency has killed more than 36 000 people in nigeria alone since 2009. an additional challenge is the growing humanitarian crisis. more than two million people are estimated to be internally displaced, more than seven million are in need of humanitarian assistance and more than one million are estimated to be out of humanitarian reach. the eu is following the situation very closely. we have promoted an integrated, multi-sectoral human rights oriented approach that focuses on peace-building, conflict prevention, humanitarian assistance and social and economic development at community level. the eu continues to stand ready to assist nigeria in responding to its security, humanitarian and development crisis, in particular around lake chad but also in the north west, middle belt, niger delta and elsewhere, and in all these cases a comprehensive approach that addresses the root causes is necessary, in our view. the eu is one of the leading contributors of humanitarian aid in nigeria. it provides immediate assistance to cover the basic needs of the most vulnerable internally displaced people and host communities. since 2014, the eu has allocated almost eur 245 million to help people in need in nigeria, and in 2019 we provided more than eur 28 million in humanitarian assistance. the eu also aims to build long-term resilience through its development assistance, which addresses the underlying causes of violent conflict, as well as support to basic services and rebuilding livelihoods. total eu support to the country under the european development fund amounts to well over half a billion euros for the period from 2014 to 2019. alongside these efforts, we are strongly committed to the fight against radicalisation and violent extremism. we continue to work on strengthening the military’s civilian protection policies and practices, demobilisation, disassociation, reintegration and reconciliation efforts and in delivering improvements to nigeria’s criminal justice system. next week i will travel to nigeria, including to the northeast, in order to convey a clear signal of the eu’s commitment at the highest political level. indeed, we are deeply concerned with the issue of shrinking humanitarian access in the northeast and with the breaches of international humanitarian law. continued dialogue with the authorities therefore constitutes a key priority for me. furthermore, the next session of the eu-nigeria human rights dialogue will be held on 18 february and this indicates again our strong commitment to defending human rights in nigeria through ongoing dialogue and programme.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to rule 196, last monday the president ordered the clerks to remove the little flags that my group's representatives had on their table. i consider this decision to be against the rules. we know that the president of parliament decided to ban banners in order to avoid the protest with banners that was being made in the chamber and to maintain order. we find it rather ambiguous that the display of small symbols of our national flags is prohibited, so i would like to understand under what rule these flags were removed and to reiterate that my group will continue to proudly carry these flags in the house.
they are not banners and they are not symbols which disturb the order of the house, so that rule cannot be applied to these symbols.
(off-mic)
madam president, this is going to be the last speech i make in this chamber. it’s difficult to recall the world when i was first elected. there was no wiki, no wifi, you had to get your tickets through a travel agent, they would come in physical form and our post arrived in envelopes with stamps on. an awful lot of things have changed, but one thing that hasn’t changed is the direction of this chamber and the other institutions, despite referendums against closer integration in the netherlands, in france, in denmark, in ireland, in greece and of course in the united kingdom, it’s still full speed ahead to closer and closer integration and it was that ultimately that i think made inevitable that britain would take a different trajectory. so as we leave let me wish the many friends i’ve made here, including the committed believers in a federal europe, every possible success. you can always rely on our open markets, on our military alliance, on our diplomatic support, but we will now be living under our own laws and for the rest of you, good luck. bon courage. (applause)
madam president, i have the feeling that it is precisely after brexit, after the departure of the united kingdom, that the ambition of some of our colleagues and of some political forces in this european parliament to create an autonomous security and defence policy has been renewed. ambitions that completely ignore the need for transatlantic ties, that ignore the only security umbrella we have available, which is the north atlantic alliance. i say on behalf of myself and my country that we are not satisfied with this development, that we will always support the transatlantic security and defence alliance and that we will not allow the creation of any autonomous or parallel structures to nato that would weaken this alliance.
madam president, i abstained on this motion because as the director of the academy of ideas in the uk, i am a champion of public debate, increased civil society and engagement in politics, and citizens having more chances to discuss their views. this is a virtue in its own terms. however, in this motion for this conference that the eu is organising, citizen engagement seems more about window dressing to save the eu’s reputation as a top-down bureaucracy with a major democratic deficit. the motion made it clear that this is not about free debate or trusting citizens, it is stage-managed. in the motion it included the phrase that said ‘we need to provide preparatory sessions for well-established civil society groups and other experts to prepare the citizens’, i.e. they don’t trust citizens. worse, the motion rejected amendments saying that the conference should be an open process with no predetermined goals. that was rejected and voted against, and rejected the conference as a chance for a fundamental debate on the eu. i’m sorry but this is a wasted opportunity and a pr exercise. i wish you well in this parliament, but you’ve really got to let the citizens speak freely and trust them and not keep trying to take over.
madam president, i am glad that we are dealing with the situation in venezuela once again in the european parliament. the reality is that, when it comes to latin america, the left in the european parliament, which is the dominant force here, let us admit it, is very happy to refer to regimes such as brazil or colombia, simply those which it considers to be right-wing, and on the other hand very happy to remain silent about regimes which we could dare to call left-wing dictatorships, whether it be cuba or nicaragua or, of course, venezuela. so it's good that we've been dealing with this, and it's good that we're dealing with this, and it's good that we're going to be dealing with this, and i think the unconstitutional actions, the human rights violations and the overall tragic economic situation that the socialist regime has brought to venezuela is an important thing on our foreign policy agenda.
madam president, i voted against this motion because article 7 is being used as a bullying weapon in defiance of the hungarian and polish voters. it is they, the hungarian and polish voters, and only they who should decide if their governments need punishment. there is a tension in this parliament, this relentless push by the eu to a federalist system in which all national cultural and political differences need to be eradicated and squashed seems to be incredibly destructive. you say you embrace diversity, but you never embrace diversity of opinion. and you show contempt for national sovereignty, shown, by the way, by the arbitrary diktat that you ban national flags from groups in this place. let me remind you that you discipline hungary and poland because they are accused of betraying european values. but those values must include the european enlightenment values of self—determination, popular sovereignty, democracy and, what’s more, tolerance of political views you disagree with. i disagree with the governments of hungary and of poland but they need to be free, democratically elected to express them.
madam president, colleagues, i voted against this resolution, these two resolutions to punish poland and hungary, because they are shameful, because they are a farce, because they are a witch hunt. neither poland nor hungary infringes in any way the rule of law and freedom of speech in their respective countries. your real problem, colleagues, with poland and hungary is that both poland and hungary have elected their sovereign governments - governments of polish or hungarian patriots and patriots who know how to run their own countries, who do not allow anti-christian propaganda in their countries, who do not allow the dictates of the false multicultural ideology that is imposed by the ngos sponsored by mr. soros. both poland and hungary are sovereign countries, sovereign governments, and they should be respected. we must not respect what the left-wing bolsheviks on the left of the room are trying to impose on us.
madam president, i voted against the resolution on poland and hungary for two reasons. firstly, i find it unacceptable that the european parliament should welcome the triggering of article 7 of the treaty on european union against these two countries. they are accused of violating the independence of the judiciary and academic freedom, but i believe that sovereign states have the right to organise their justice system as they wish. and to be perfectly clear, i support hungary protecting itself against george soros's destabilizing attempts. secondly, i find it unacceptable that the european parliament's resolution proposes to create a procedure for monitoring, by supposedly independent experts, the respect of the union's values by its member states. i do not want the union to be an ideological guardian of poland, hungary, france or any other member state.
madam president, we’re on the verge of a catastrophic biodiversity loss, and it’s great news that this parliament passed a resolution today for the cop15 convention on biological diversity. this reflects a moment at which this parliament has increased its green vote considerably and a shift in public opinion. but it’s disappointing to see swathes of voters on the other side of the chamber standing against acceleration of this action, trying to put on the brakes. this is a betrayal of people and animals, it’s a betrayal of the collaborative project that is the eu. why are they preventing us from reforming the agricultural policy? why are they holding us back from what needs to be done when the planet is at risk?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr slabakov, i share your opinion to a large extent. i think that in order to stop people being forced to make 3d-printed guns, every law-abiding citizen, every citizen who doesn't have a criminal record, every citizen who is a taxpayer, should be able to acquire the capabilities to protect themselves and their families, without breaking the law, of course.
now i would like to give the floor back to the commission. commissioner lenarčič, the floor is yours for the final remarks.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this short but very interesting debate. i will take this back and i can assure you that the commission will look at this matter from all the angles that were mentioned today. but i can already give you some preliminary feedback on each of them. i will start with intellectual property rights. the commission recently commissioned a study on the intellectual property rights implications of the development of industrial three—dimensional printing. the purpose of this study is to analyse the intellectual property implications of the development of industrial 3d printing. the commission will take account of the study’s conclusions and recommendations and will decide on the next steps. obviously, the fight against counterfeited products, be it through 3d printing or any other production method, is of paramount importance for the commission. on product liability, this is a matter that is covered by the product liability directive. on this issue, i can tell you that the commission published its fifth report on the product liability directive and the evaluation of the directive back in 2018. it also published a staff working document on liability for emerging digital technologies in the same year. in addition, the commission is working on a guidance document for the implementation of the directive and this guidance document should be available later this year. furthermore, the commission is examining whether it would be useful to amend the product liability directive. finally, on the illicit arms production angle, the incident that you mentioned in halle was of course looked at very closely by the german authorities. among others, the german bundestag found that no legislative changes are necessary because the current german law explicitly sanctions the unlicensed manufacture of guns and firearms regardless of the method of their production. nevertheless, the commission will submit to this parliament and to the council a report on the application of the firearms directive, including a fitness check of its provisions accompanied, if appropriate, by legislative proposals, notably concerning the impacts of new technologies such as 3d—printing, but also the use of qr code and the use of radio—frequency identification.
the debate is closed.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 january 2020.
before we begin this session with the commemoration of the international day of remembrance for the victims of the holocaust and the 75th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz, i invite you to watch a short video of testimonies. (video playing) i have the pleasure of welcoming to this chamber cellist mischa maysky, who will be playing an opening piece accompanied by his son max on the piano. the song is "from jewish life: prayer" by ernest bloch. (music stops) ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, mrs liliana segre, madam president of the commission, commissioners, distinguished guests, diplomatic representatives, representatives of national parliaments, mayors of martyred cities, we are here today to remember that 75 years ago the gates of one of the places that europeans will never forget were opened. the soviet army had arrived at auschwitz-birkenau and the gates opened wide on a factory of death which, with maniacal punctuality and systematic extermination, caused over a million and a half deaths in that camp, causing untold suffering and pain. opening those gates, like all the other gates that opened in all the nazi death camps, means for future generations, for us, to find out where the man who loses his humanity can go. but not only: he showed what it means to build an enemy to prove that you can destroy it. what can hate produce in the service of a will to unchecked power? how far sadism can pollute our societies. where it can lead the instinct, freed from consciousness, to exalt the satisfaction of feeling the owner of life. in auschwitz, european land, on that day in 1945, the gates of the abyss were opened. because in that place it was not enough to destroy the bodies of people, reducing them to smoke and ashes to erase all traces of their past, present and future, but first of all it was necessary to destroy their souls, deprive them of their identity, turn them into a number to be marked on the body, use them, as president simone veil recalled, as "stück", or "pieces" of raw material. at auschwitz, the very essence of humanity was called into question by the will to exterminate the jewish people, and with it the roma and sinti people, the opponents, and to enslave the slavic peoples, the homosexuals. auschwitz is unspeakable. vasilij grossman, recounting his experience in the treblinka concentration camp wrote: "in his hell dante did not see such scenes as these". but if hell is reserved for sinners, what sin could be imputed to children, women, all those who passed through the chimney or were tortured, offended, humiliated, reduced to spare parts? auschwitz was the very negation of our civilization. the civilization that has jewish and christian origins, that met the islamic world, that conquered the enlightenment and built its coexistence on law, that fought against barbarism and in defense of human dignity, that tried to offer an idea of the beauty of the person and of the people living together in our cities and in our countries. a civilization that stopped its own race to the desire for freedom at the gates of auschwitz. in the face of this, today, full of emotion and gathered in the gathering, we bow before all the victims of the holocaust and want to assume our duty to remember. we take this responsibility because we know that auschwitz was built by europeans and we are called upon to take this responsibility because what has happened is our responsibility and calls us to account. what happened is the child of our history. because the nazis came from good mothers, from cosmopolitan families, from families who sang the te deum, from fathers who taught the free spirit. children who have not been able to react and to oppose and to define their own responsibility. the final solution has allowed the unimaginable to enter the imaginary and shows that what can be imagined, aided by circumstances, can be brought to life. the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter is a good indication of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, it requires us to take action whenever there is an act of violence and discrimination, whenever anti-semitic and racist behaviour occurs in our societies. we must always regard this as an attack on the dignity of people and an attack on our idea of europe. and so let's repeat it together today, because otherwise there would be no point in remembering the liberation of auschwitz-birkenau: nazism and racism are not opinions, they are crimes! (cheers and applause) whenever we read in the newspaper about violence, sacrilege, insults, we must consider that violence, that sacrilege and that insult directed at each of us. these are attacks on europe and the values it represents, and they embody the two diseases of the modern nation that are spreading on our continent: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. europe, on the contrary, has been formed and we want to continue to be formed with our diversity, our plurality, our political, religious and cultural pluralism. and that is precisely why we must be grateful to judaism that has allowed us to form that universalist spirit that is an integral part of our worldview. in a europe that has known absolute evil, we have succeeded in building a space of brotherhood, friendship and democracy that we do not want violated. that is why we call on governments to use vigilance and severity against all forms of intolerance. the vandalism of jewish cemeteries, the attacks on synagogues and places of worship, the threats against european jewish families and the intolerance against minorities in our member states are not new. they're not girls! we have made this very clear in our treaties and we ask the commission and the council to ensure that this is respected. we have a responsibility in the face of these dangers. it happened once, it can happen again. we must feel the commitment to a clear historical conscience and always give a true testimony to the events that have happened to prevent denials and amnesia, perhaps dictated by vulgar opportunism. but our conscience must also be alert, that is, able to discern, to prevent and to intervene whenever the seeds of absolute evil are sown. the holocaust would not have been possible without the complicity and cowardice that existed in europe at the time. in the face of this, it is necessary to "think of oneself as another", as the philosopher paul ricœur said. the other is the skeletal man of auschwitz, the walking man of alberto giacometti, a man who is heading towards a future that he hopes for better. but the other is also the foreigner who wishes to write the history of europe with us. the righteous, like jan karski and many others, who risked their lives to save innocent people from the abyss, must be a daily inspiration for our actions, because we always have the choice and the absolute duty not to accept indifference to the dangers of anti-semitism, racism and the rejection of the other. ultimately, we must accept the bible's injunction that we find, expressed in an explicit but very simple way, in the book of leviticus, and which we recognize as having fundamental ethical significance, whether we are believers or not: "you must not cooperate in the death of your fellowman". this presupposition must guide our actions and calls us to preserve the memory of what happened at auschwitz and to take on the responsibility of passing on the memory. this task, as the inexorable march of time makes witnesses disappear, is entrusted to our own and future generations. paul celan in one of his poems wrote: "no one/testifies for the/witness" referring to the almost sacred character of what a witness represents. we are all here today to express our gratitude to senator liliana segre who is here with us today to give us her testimony. when gilles deleuze said that he wrote "for the illiterate", he did not mean that he wrote "so that the illiterate could read", but that he wrote "in the place of the illiterate", of whom he was the spokesman and witness. in the same way, in auschwitz and today in this chamber where european democracy is expressed, we bear witness to those who died, assuming the duty of transmission that their sacrifice implicitly assigned to us. auschwitz is unspeakable. but i want to believe that the testimony of those who saw the unspeakable can move our hearts and inspire the ethics of our actions, so that this never happens again. let us hear mrs segre's voice, and i will give her the floor. with her, we will be stronger in sustaining our witness against indifference. it is a great honor, madam, that you are here with us today and it is a great gift that you were able to survive auschwitz and allow us to know so that we do not forget. (applause) i would like to thank
senator for life of the italian republic, survivor of auschwitz. i must begin by thanking my friend sassoli for inviting me and the whole parliament. i should also like to greet the departing british members of parliament, with great regret for all of us. i do not hide my deep emotion on entering this european parliament after seeing the flags, the coloured flags of so many countries, which are brothers in the european parliament, where people talk, discuss and look into each other's eyes. it wasn't always like this. the 27th of january is a day that is sometimes repeated too often, giving the 27th of january a lot of importance. after all, auschwitz was not liberated that day. the red army entered, and it's very beautiful the description that primo levi gives in his book "the truce" of these four russian soldiers who open and find themselves in front without releasing anything because the nazis had already fled for many days this incredible spectacle, at the time to their eyes, but then later, much later, became an incredible spectacle for those who wanted to watch it. some people don't want to look at it even now, they say it's not true. these extraordinary words of primo levi express astonishment at the evil of others, because this astonishment at the evil of others no one who was a prisoner in auschwitz could ever forget for a second of his life. the wonder that other people who are not crazy, who are not from a distant world but are your european brothers, have thought for you. on january 27 i was 13 years old and a slave worker in the union ammunition factory, which still exists, where we made machine-gun casings. suddenly, in the factory, after we had heard distant explosions - we worked in the city of auschwitz and knew the things that were happening in birkenau where i had been until very shortly before - came the immediate order from the factory itself to start what was called the "death march". i was not liberated on january 27 by the red army. i was part of that group of over 50,000 prisoners still alive who had been forced in those physical conditions, let alone the psychological ones, to begin that march, which lasted for months and about which very little is said, the "death march". when i speak in the grandmother schools, as i have spoken as a grandmother for the last 30 years, i say that everyone must, one leg in front of the other, in life, never lean on anyone, because in the death march we could not lean on the next comrade who was dragging on the snow with his feet bruised like us and who was killed by the escort guards if he fell, was killed, no one could stay there on those roads. we crossed. how do you do that? how do you do it in those conditions? because the force of life is extraordinary: this is what we have to convey to the young people of today who are mortified by the lack of work, mortified by the vices they receive from their lax parents, so everything is allowed, while life is not like that, then life prepares you for this march that must become "march for life". we didn't want to die. we were madly attached to life, whatever it was, so, one leg in front of the other, throwing ourselves on the manure, eating whatever shit, whatever, eating snow where it wasn't stained with blood and asking ourselves nothing more than to go on, walk, walk. it was other people's evil. the windows were closed. we crossed, first it was poland and upper silesia, then it was germany. and months and months later, after going through other camps, other horrors, other evils, we arrived in ravensbruck, a jugendlager called jugendlager because we were actually young, but we looked old, without sex, without age, without breasts, without menstruation, without underwear. you must not be afraid of such words, because that is how you take away a woman's dignity. it's like that. (applause from the left) you're used to surviving because there was something inside of us that said, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, day after day, camp after camp, i found myself at the end of april 1945 think of that situation how far away it was on january 27 in that physical state, with companions lost in that march, left there without being able to get up, never rescued by anyone, because no one opened a window, threw a piece of bread. there was fear. it was fear that made the choice so few. because we hardly ever talk about these extraordinary people who made the choice, we assume that entire peoples were guilty because it was not only the german people, it was all of europe occupied by the nazis. we are talking about france, we are talking about italy, i don't know much about other countries where our neighbours were extraordinary helpers to the nazis. i am talking about italy, where we have unfortunately seen our neighbours denouncing us, taking possession of our apartment, our office and even the dog sometimes because it was a purebred dog. the dog was a purebred. this word "race", which we still hear, and that's why we have to fight this racism, this structural racism that still exists. people ask me: but why is there still talk of anti-semitism? it's okay that i'm very old at my 90th year, but i'm not the one who knows why there's still anti-semitism, why there's still racism. i answer that there has always been but that there was no political moment to be able to bring out the anti-semitism and racism that are inherent in the souls of the poor in spirit. yes, it is. and then there are the moments, the courses and the historical appeals. there are moments when it's the right thing to do, when you turn the other way, when it's easier to pretend again, it's easier to look at your own backyard, to say that it's not my concern, because it should be my concern, it's not my concern. and then all those who take advantage of this situation find the right ground to come forward. now, the war didn't stop, as we know, and before it was liberated by the allies in northern germany, it came on may 1st, 1945. the situation of the jews was similar in the occupied countries, allies of the nazis, it was similar in fact if not in law. the jews of that time had been and felt deeply as citizens and patriots of germany, italy, france, hungary, they had fought in wars. i remember my father and my uncle who were officers in the first world war and how many german jews cried and committed suicide because they felt german more than anything else. this expulsion from the national communities was very painful, it was something that went far beyond the laws, because he was your neighbor. i was a child who became invisible and this happened to me also immediately after the war, when i by chance remained alive and returned to my milan with the rubble still smoking and met my schoolmates who had not seen me again, because in 1938 i would have to do the third elementary and i was obviously a very serious danger both for the fascists and for the nazis so they decided that the jewish children of that small community of the italian jews thirty-eight or forty thousand people, so a small community, which was a victim for at least a third of the shoah were removed from schools. i was a child who was completely integrated into society and didn't feel any different, and these women, when they met me after three or four years, they said, "but you segre, where did you go that i never saw you at school?" i was a wounded girl, i was a wild girl, a girl who could no longer eat with a fork and a knife because i was still used to "fressen nicht essen" which meant like the beasts that eat "fressen" not "essen" and as such i was bulimic, and as such i was also disgusting, and as such i was criticized even by those who loved me and wanted the middle-class girl with good family upbringing again. it's hard to remember these things. i must say that i have been speaking in schools for 30 years and i now feel that it is a very strong psychological difficulty to continue, even though it is my duty to do so and i will do so until i die, because i have seen those colours, heard those smells, heard those screams, met people in that babble of languages, which today i can only recall here where so many languages meet in peace, because it was possible to communicate with the companions who came from all of nazi-occupied europe only by finding common words, because otherwise the absolute loneliness of silence, of not being able to exchange a word with each other, derived from some ancestral isolation of the communities that had not met in parliaments, since europe had been fighting in a frightening way for centuries. anyone who has studied history knows that it is now, 75 years ago, an absolutely incredible period, while all the past has made people sometimes not know each other. the flags outside, which i remembered at the beginning, reminded me of that desire to find a common word with the dutch, the french, the poles, the germans, the hungarians. for example, the only word i learned in hungarian was "bread", which in hungarian is called kenyér. and it's the main word, which means hunger, but which also means the sacredness of something that is being wasted today without even looking at what is being thrown away. so for the last three years, i've been feeling that the memories of that girl i was, when i'm now a 90-year-old woman, do not give me peace. they are disturbing me because, since i became a grandmother 32 years ago to one of my three grandchildren - fortunately i have three, as well as three wonderful children, and the european parliament and my non-extinction seem to me at the moment the same miracle, i do not know if i am wrong, immodestly, immodestly - that little girl there who made the death march, that one who burned in the dung, that one who did not cry anymore, that one who was looking for the common word, that one is different from me and i am my own grandmother. i'm a grandmother, and when i talk to my grandchildren who are grieving over love or education or not achieving something they want to achieve, i'm a loving grandmother, i'm a very present grandmother, i'm a grateful grandmother for being a grandmother, an extraordinary miracle for someone who was about to die. i'm my own grandmother. and it's a feeling that sometimes doesn't leave me when i'm done speaking in schools. sometimes i speak to thousands of kids, all together two or three thousand, and so it's my duty as a witness to speak, and i can only speak about myself and my girlfriends, but it's me that comes out, that skinny, skeletal, desperate, lonely little girl. and i can't stand it anymore, because i'm my own grandmother, and i feel that if i don't stop talking and if i don't retire, that time that i have left to remember alone or to enjoy the great joys of my newfound family, i won't be able to do it anymore anyway because i won't be able to do it anymore. so even today i struggle to remember, but i felt it was a great duty to accept this invitation and to have this opportunity to remember the evil of others, but also to remember that you can, one leg in front of the other, be like that little girl in terezín whoever will go to prague or has already been there can visit the museum of children who in terezín could do plays or color with crayons and who then one day were all deported and killed in auschwitz for the guilt of being born, because they were children and therefore could not have harmed anyone that little girl, whose name i do not remember, who drew a yellow butterfly flying over the wires. i didn't have colored pencils and maybe i didn't have and never had the wonderful imagination of the little girl from terezín. that the yellow butterfly always flies over the barbed wire. this is a very simple message from a grandmother that i would like to leave to my future ideal grandchildren: that they are able to make the choice and with their responsibility and their conscience to always be that yellow butterfly flying over the barbed wire. (applause from the centre and the right)
thank you, sir. i invite the orchestra to enter the courtroom for the conclusion. but first i would like to invite everyone to observe a minute of silence. it seems to me, after the words we have heard, that it is right. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
president of the commission. – mr president, madam senator ms liliana segre, honourable members, dear anita lasker-wallfisch, dear european friends. of course, it is very difficult to take the floor after you, liliana segre. the power and the humanity of your speech, dear liliana, was profoundly moving, and your memories. and i deeply admire, like all of us here in the room, your endless fight for remembrance. it is an important reminder for all of us of life and, as you’ve said, of its dignity. you often say that, and i quote: ‘understanding is impossible but knowledge is necessary’. and how could we ever understand this completely dehumanised world, this world beyond time, life and reality? these words come from another auschwitz survivor, ms simone veil – we’ve seen her in the video. the first president of the first directly-elected european parliament, simone veil was a woman who, with heart and conviction, lived through europe’s worst days and also its greatest moments of hope and of unity. looking at auschwitz birkenau and what happened there, she coined the term of ‘the absolute evil’. die systematische ausrottung von sechs millionen juden ist das absolut böse – das absolut böse, das sich nicht in worte fassen lässt, die schlimmste barbarei, die der mensch dem menschen zufügen kann, das verbrechen von nazideutschland gegen die menschheit. und als deutsche fühle ich schwere schuld. und doch spreche ich hier. die opfer, vor denen wir uns verneigen, wurden im namen meiner nation umgebracht. die stätten dieses mordes wurden über ganz europa verteilt: auschwitz, buchenwald, babij jar, mauthausen, bergen-belsen, treblinka – namen unvorstellbarer menschlichkeitsverbrechen und des verlustes aller humanität. wir gedenken heute der gequälten und entrechteten der nationalsozialistischen gewaltherrschaft. wir gedenken millionen ermordeter europäischer juden, der roma, der sinti, der zwangsarbeiterinnen und zwangsarbeiter, der zeugen jehovas, der homosexuellen, der kranken und behinderten, der politischen gefangenen und der kriegsgefangenen und vieler vieler anderer mehr. wir verneigen uns vor den toten. ja, als deutsche fühle ich die besondere schuld, aber ich fühle auch die besondere verantwortung. denn als deutsche in europa weiß ich auch, dass es unsere nachbarn waren, die uns die hand gereicht haben und uns wieder aufgenommen haben in den kreis der demokratischen völker. je sais, en tant qu’européenne, que notre union s’est bâtie en s’appuyant sur la volonté absolue de protéger la dignité de chaque être humain, car elle est inviolable; que nous avons la responsabilité permanente de combattre avec détermination toute forme d’antisémitisme et de discrimination, et de ne jamais, jamais oublier. le souvenir est douloureux et effrayant, mais il ne nous paralyse pas. au contraire, il aiguise notre boussole morale et nous met en garde, parce que la shoah n’a pas commencé à auschwitz, mais bien plus tôt, dans les esprits des gens. elle a commencé avec l’affaiblissement de la capacité de s’indigner face au dénigrement dont d’autres étaient victimes. elle a commencé avec la brutalité et les discours de haine à l’égard des juifs. aux paroles ont succédé les actes, dont les crimes contre l’humanité constituent la concrétisation indicible. on a d’abord vu mourir l’empathie et déferler les invectives, sans que personne n’y mette fin. the former united nations secretary, general kofi annan, once said: ‘all that evil needs to triumph is the silence of the majority’. this fight for remembrance, which you are leading with so much courage and determination, dear liliana segre, must be our common fight. it is a duty to remember for all of us and must be passed down from generation to generation. for when the memory fades, where today there are attempts to deny the holocaust, where people are vilified and treated with contempt because they are jews or because they are not like the majority, this is where europe is called into question. for europe rose with a firm will never again to give any quarter to absolute evil. europe knows, like no other continent, that this mission means: do not let it take root – never, ever again. i thank you from the bottom of my heart, dear liliana, for your tireless dedication to stop us forgetting, and i thank you for the courage with which you counter the hatred which has been rekindled in europe and which you experienced first-hand. your courage gives us strength. and we wish to say to you that europe will not remain silent when jews in europe are again subjected to hatred and harassment. we will fight anti-semitism at all levels. we will never allow the holocaust to be denied. we will fight with all our strength against discrimination, racism and exclusion, and we want to see – and we will fight for – a normal life for jews in europe. you can rely on us. (applause from the house) der fünfundsiebzigste jahrestag der befreiung des lagers auschwitz ist gedenken. wir gedenken all derer, deren zukunft ausgelöscht wurde. wir gedenken all derer, die nie aus den lagern zurückgekehrt sind. anderthalb millionen jüdische kinder wurden ermordet. ich weine um jedes kind, und es hat seinen namen in yad vashem. wir gedenken aber auch derer, die überlebt haben und, liebe liliana segre, denen die schrecklichen erinnerungen an diese hölle auf ewig ins gedächtnis eingebrannt sind. aber dieses gedenken ist auch ein aufruf zur wachsamkeit. heinz galinski, der langjährige vorsitzende des zentralrats der juden in deutschland, hat zu recht gesagt: „demokratie kann man keiner gesellschaft aufzwingen, sie ist auch kein geschenk, das man ein für allemal in besitz nehmen kann. sie muss täglich erkämpft und verteidigt werden.“ genau darum geht es: wehret den anfängen! seid wachsam! seien wir aufrichtig gegenüber unserer geschichte! verteidigen wir die unantastbarkeit der würde eines jeden einzelnen menschen! verteidigen wir das innerste und die werte unserer demokratie! das sind wir den opfern des holocaust schuldig, das sind wir der würde des menschen schuldig wie genauso auch unserer demokratie. (beifall)
i invite our musicians to take their seats. we'll be listening to maurice ravel's "kaddish", performed by naomi couquet and the karski quartet. (the sitting was suspended at 4.10 p.m.)
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 16 january 2020. there are requests for amendments. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: wednesday statements by the council and the commission on the coronavirus epidemic are added as the first item on the evening's agenda. the sitting was therefore extended until 12 noon. thursdaythe following six points are added: objection in accordance with article 111 of the regulation: classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures - titanium dioxide; two reports by mr tinalli on the appointment of a member of the single resolution board; the report of mr tinagli on the appointment of the vice-chair of the single resolution board; the report of mr tinagli on the appointment of the executive director of the european banking authority; the report by mr nethsingha on the verification of credentials. all of this is added directly to the votes. the deadlines for mr nethsingha's report on the verification of credentials are as follows: amendments to the rules of procedure wednesday 29 january at 18.00; separate votes and separate votes: wednesday, january 29th at 9 p.m. (parliament adopted the amendments) wednesdaythe gue/ngl group has called for the title of the commission's statement on the 'eu mobility and transport strategy: measures needed for 2030 and beyond' to be changed to 'eu strategy for sustainable mobility and transport: measures needed for 2030 and beyond'. i call mr kontoura to present the request of the gue/ngl group.
as for wednesday, the id group asked that the discussion on the amendment of the indian citizenship act, 2019 be withdrawn from the agenda. i give the floor to mr mariani to present the request of group id.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the epp group agrees to have the debate today, but we ask colleagues to support the postponement of the vote to march ii in strasbourg. the issue is ongoing, as the indian supreme court has asked the government to clarify numerous issues, and we should await the answers and then assess how to fairly evaluate this law. we will also have time in february to get hold of indian government ministers visiting brussels. let’s give the government a chance to explain directly, and today they can already listen to our questions and concerns and give us answers next month. please support the request for postponement of the vote.
mr gahler, you have brought forward the next vote. we now have to vote on the id group's request. i give the floor to mr mohammed, who is opposed to the request.
mr president, i was the one who asked for this to be an urgency in strasbourg. i was then told: please could we delay it until mr borrell went to india and came back. this is my last chance to speak on this issue. i am proposing this. we have just heard the president of the commission say that, in order for bad things to happen, all it takes is for good people to be silenced. of all the weeks this parliament is going to silence people – we just heard the presentation on the holocaust. look at the paragraphs here: in assam the nrc has already made 1.9 million people stateless. so i say: have the debate, have the vote, because states in india are currently debating this and voting on this. (applause)
as for wednesday, the epp group asked that the vote on the resolution on the amendment to the indian citizenship act, 2019, currently scheduled for thursday, be postponed to the march ii session. you have heard mr. gahler. i give the floor to mr ainslie who wants to speak in the opposite direction.
mr president, as has already been said, this has been kicked down the road once. are we going to just keep kicking this down the road? we cannot keep delaying. we have all been bombarded from the indian lobby; we have been bombarded from various parts of the parliament here. as my colleague just said, we cannot stand here and commemorate 75 years of the holocaust. this started with hate speech, this started with the death of empathy, this started with incitement – and all that it takes for evil to triumph is that good people do nothing. we cannot keep postponing. so i vote very strongly against and i hope that everyone will be vigilant and not hypocritical, that they deliver on this today. no more delays.
madam president, last july when i came to this parliament with 15 colleagues we were full of optimism and hope; today our mood is very sombre. in a world that is ever more interconnected, with problems that don’t respect national borders, brexit is a backward step. here we have seen democratically elected politicians work together with each other, across party, across groups, across national divides. it is truly inspirational. brexit is the result of an ideological divide in an old political party that should have split decades ago, but it won’t because of a voting system that is not fit for purpose. the only silver lining in this very dark cloud is that the division caused by brexit could now be the catalyst for something even bigger: a wholesale reform of our democracy in the uk which will mean that our country can never again be hijacked by a vanity project that has no basis in reality. we will hold our government to account every step of the way. they have promised us the earth; let’s see if they can deliver. we are still europeans. for now we say, merci, au revoir. this is not goodbye. (applause)
a uachtarán, this friday, part of our country will be taken out of the european union against the wishes of the vast majority of people who live there. i’m proud of sinn féin’s record in this parliament and elsewhere in working to ensure that the repercussions of brexit for the north of ireland, for the border regions and for our entire island have been minimised in this withdrawal agreement, but the fact remains that, from this weekend, one part of ireland will be in the eu while the other part will operate outside. the complications that come with that are yet to be told. the future trade relationship between britain and the eu could yet create unprecedented difficulties for the irish economy and vulnerable sectors, particularly agriculture. so, much work remains to be done and sinn féin will be a leading voice in protecting ireland’s interests in the trade negotiations, in calling for mitigation measures from any economic brexit fallout and for presenting the case for irish unity as a crucial mechanism to withstand the worst excesses of british tory policies, which once again have no mandate in any part of ireland. go raibh maith agat, a uachtarán.
madam president, when somebody leaves after fifty years it is bound to be emotional and sad, and that is the way many of us feel here today. i can understand, like guy verhofstadt, that so many british citizens would ask me to vote against the withdrawal agreement. my heart says ‘yes’, but my head says ‘no’, because we have to respect the decision of the british people and let them leave with good grace and pay tribute to them, their prime ministers, their ambassadors and above all their meps who played a mammoth role in building up the european union. especially for their friendship and support to us irish meps and ireland generally. they will continue to be our close allies for many years to come. i am conscious that the young people of the united kingdom did not want to leave and, for that reason, when their day comes, it is very likely they will decide to come back into the european union. so instead of saying slán or goodbye, i say: à bientôt, beidh fáilte romhaibh ar ais. go raibh maith agat, a uachtarán.
madam president, for me, today is a historic day but one of profound regret at the departure of the united kingdom from its place of influence within the european union. i will vote against the withdrawal agreement today to record the continued opposition of those whom i represent to this insular, isolationist and reckless course of action. but i want to place on record my thanks to michel barnier and his team for all they have done to mitigate that recklessness. the people of northern ireland rejected brexit in 2016, and we are certainly not accepting it now. (president: could i just ask: we need to listen to the speakers, and there’s a lot of people to my right here who are having a great old chat. there’s a restaurant outside: go for a coffee. this is ms long’s last speech here in the parliament. please listen with respect.) whilst the uk may withdraw from these institutions, the people of northern ireland will never withdraw the hand of friendship, the spirit of cooperation, or the shared determination to secure peace and prosperity for all of our people. as a child of the northern ireland conflict, i’m grateful to the european union, which helped shape our peace and which provides a model for pragmatic win-win politics based not on division but upon diversity. the decisions you make in this place will continue to shape the lives of the people i represent, and i look forward to forging new ways of ensuring that those close and enduring partnerships built between northern ireland and this place flourish. finally, whilst we will no longer be colleagues in these institutions, i remain your steadfast colleague outside of them, as together we continue to champion the values of cooperation, interdependence and mutual respect which the european union represents, until one day we rejoin you here. au revoir, auf wiedersehen, slán go fóill, good-bye for now.
madam president, i will today vote against this deal. i do so on behalf of the millions of british people who voted to remain, including my constituents in london. brexit is a regressive, reckless, right—wing project. the only people celebrating it outside the uk are those who wish to weaken us all. this decision is harmful for young people, our fellow europeans living in the uk, and the most vulnerable. over the last few days we have welcomed young brits to this parliament. they don’t want brexit. they value common endeavours over isolationism. brexit is now inevitable, but i don’t believe it will be permanent. young brits will one day lead the campaign for us to rejoin as committed members, invested in our shared european future. à bientôt, chers amis. (applause)
madam president, as a scottish mep, i will be voting against the withdrawal agreement, as the majority of my country has mandated me to do. the people of scotland have consistently voted against brexit, and scotland’s parliament has refused to give its consent to this brexit deal. the tragedy for scotland is that, on friday, scotland will be dragged out of the eu against the democratic wishes of our people. scotland is a european nation, and i look forward to an independent scotland re—joining the eu – and we will soon – playing a positive role and promoting europe’s values, international solidarity and cooperation as an equal partner. i am proud to have been a member of this parliament of europe’s citizens and i give you my word that scotland’s government will continue to protect the interests of all eu citizens who have chosen to make scotland their home and have contributed to our society in so many important ways. when the moment comes for scotland to re—join the eu, i hope this parliament will welcome us in that same spirit of european solidarity. in the meantime, i hope very much that you will leave a light on for scotland. (applause)
madam president, thank you, mr barnier, thank you, guy, thank you to the european parliament for the way that you have treated us through the negotiation on this withdrawal agreement. i’m shocked but, frankly, not surprised that it took your intervention to protect the rights of the eu 27 citizens in britain and the british citizens in the eu 27 countries. you people here have an opportunity next month to be generous to us again when you consider our status as citizens in your europe going forward. please be kind to us again. this shameful document, which i will vote against, is our reality today. i’m going home to fight for a better reality tomorrow.
madam president, i can’t quite believe this is happening. however. i love the uk, and i will do everything i can to make sure that our future, whatever it is, is bright and successful. however. this is a bad deal for britain and the fault for that lies at the feet of the british government. the deal takes britain outside of the customs union and the single market, something certain leading leavers said need never happen. in it, boris johnson has weakened support for workers’ rights, and he did that after he put the deal to the british people. it has more red tape, more delays, more barriers to brits who want to work and do business with the eu, which is our largest trading partner, and it removes opportunities for young people in britain. i thank all of my colleagues here for your lovely, kind words today. we will miss you. i thank guy verhofstadt and michel barnier and this brexit steering group for the huge amount of work that they all put into this deal, but i will not be blackmailed by boris johnson into supporting a deal that is fundamentally bad for britain.
madam president, i’m voting against this agreement because it’s a bad deal for britain and i, for one, will ‘not go gently into that good night’. but before that vote i’d like to say thank you to all parliamentary colleagues, to dacian cioloș and friends in the renew europe group whom i have been proud to serve as a vice-president, and thank you to the eu for all the support given to my region and my country over decades, in education, science and medicine, in shared prosperity, opportunity and support for business, in protection of the environment and workers’ rights and by preserving europe’s peace – and let me tell you that my parents survived the war we remembered earlier and they knew exactly what they were voting for in 1975. one special thank you to our translators, who have had to help the brits rather more than most, and i apologise to them that i am now going to try and speak in more than one language to deliver one last message, as much on behalf of my children as myself: wir werden wieder kommen. ne vom intoarce. we komen terug. nous reviendrons. volveremos. beimid ar ais. vi kommer tillbaka. retornaremos. we will be back.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today not only ecosystems, animals and plants are in danger of extinction, but also peoples, cultures and civilizations. indigenous or tribal peoples make up just over 4% of the world's population, but they represent over 90% of the cultural diversity of our planet. victims of history, of european colonial expansion, of the technical, economic and military supremacy of western civilization, the natives have been left in a state of subordination, have lost almost all their territories and are reduced to living on the margins of a society alien to them, deprived of the right to self-determination, their own land and their own resources. these people are now subject to renewed economic and commercial interests, exploited as cheap labour, forced to abandon their land when resources or wealth are discovered, and, again, the main victims of the effects of deforestation and climate change, from melting glaciers to global warming itself. ladies and gentlemen, we must do more and better to protect the earth's guardians from old and new threats, but above all we must intensify the dialogue with these peoples, who with their deep knowledge of the environment in which they live can and must play a key role in the effort to combat climate change.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions and their suggestions. of course, we can always do more and we can always do better. and let me reiterate the high importance that the eu attaches to reversing the negative trends that we are currently seeing as regards the enjoyment of human rights by indigenous people. so support for indigenous people’s rights will remain high on our agenda. with regard to the issue raised by ms santos, business, yes, may indeed have impacts on the rights of indigenous people, and the commission is ready to consider the issue in the ongoing reflections on the policy related to responsible business conduct. so thank you for your comments. i will make some remarks now on the eu approach on human rights in brazil within the future eu-mercosur agreement. the eu follows closely the situation of human rights in brazil, particularly human rights defenders, indigenous peoples and all those working to protect land, environment, biodiversity and climate. indigenous peoples feature prominently also in our comprehensive and sustained contact and cooperation with brazil, for instance by regular visits by the eu delegation in brasília, to different regions and indigenous communities, regular visits by the eu special representative for human rights as well. the last edition of the eu-brazil dialogue on human rights was on 9 october 2019, and it included a focus on indigenous peoples, human rights defenders, labour standards, businesses and human rights, and children’s and women’s rights, which already also were mentioned here tonight. and in particular we voiced our concern on the situation of indigenous peoples and human rights defenders. our offer of cooperation was positively appreciated by the brazilians, and as a positive follow-up to this dialogue, brazil invited the eu special representative for human rights, mr gilmore, to visit the country during 2020 as a mid-term review of the joint work carried out in these areas between annual dialogues. the eu-mercosur association agreement would serve as a valuable tool to further promote the protection of human rights and to address environmental issues in brazil and the region. it includes provisions on human rights, indigenous peoples and cooperation on sustainable development. it will provide for upgraded mechanisms for enhanced political dialogue and cooperation between the two sides of these issues. these include specific mechanisms for eu-mercosur dialogue and exchanges between parties, including at the level of parliaments and civil societies of both regions. in the trade part, a trade and sustainable development chapter provides for binding commitment to the effective implementation of the multilateral environmental agreements – including the paris agreement – ratified by each of the parties. these will bring reinforced commitments and tools for regular dialogue with our partners.
in writing. the un general assembly has declared 2019 the international year of indigenous languages. as co-chair of the ep working group on minorities, i was personally involved in the preparation of this thematic year, which aimed to promote and protect indigenous languages and improve the lives of indigenous language communities. the continued loss of indigenous languages is a matter of concern around the world. according to a 2016 un report, there are currently about 6,700 languages spoken in the world and the vast majority of these are indigenous languages 95% of them are at risk of disappearing by the end of the century. languages are a key component of human rights and fundamental freedoms and are also important for the achievement of sustainable development, as the geographical knowledge, collective knowledge and experience of indigenous communities are encoded in these languages. so it is only through these mediating languages that this knowledge, which also helps to overcome global environmental challenges, can be passed on to future generations. it is therefore of the utmost importance to protect and promote the use of these languages. providing proper education is essential for the survival of indigenous languages. the integration of intercultural public policies, indigenous languages and historical knowledge into school curricula should be supported as it contributes to the preservation, renewal and promotion of indigenous peoples' cultures at national and international level.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president and honourable members of this parliament, the european union and india enjoy a strong bond rooted in the 2004 strategic partnership. it is based on shared values of democracy, rule of law, respect for human rights, commitment to the rules-based global order, effective multilateralism and sustainable development. the president of the european council and the president of the european commission will host the prime minister of india for the 15th eu-india summit on 13 march here in brussels. we have a rich, frank and open dialogue with india on all issues of common interest, as well as on issues where we might have different perspectives. the high representative/vice-president of the commission was in india on 16 and 17 january, where he discussed the preparation for the summit. on this occasion, the minister for external affairs and prime minister modi reaffirmed their strong interest for a deepened strategic partnership with the european union. the issue that you are debating today was also part of the discussions, and the hr/vp enquired about the risk of discrimination among refugees and migrants on religious grounds under the revised legislation. he also drew the attention of his interlocutors to the need to ensure compliance of national legislation with international law. beyond this point, we believe that it is the role of the supreme court of india to assess compliance of the law with the constitution and we are confident that the ongoing judicial process will contribute to appeasing the tensions and violence witnessed over the past weeks in the country. thank you for your attention and i look forward to your remarks.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. dear colleagues, india is, as the commissioner rightly said, an important partner for us, both politically and economically, and we want to improve relations. that's why it's important for us to look at what's going on in this country. if we learn that there are difficulties, and even violence and deaths, due to a changed law or other planned legal changes - such as the registration law - then this is a point where we look more closely. we do that in context, and it's important that we get smart about how to assess the situation. the law as such does not take away from an existing right. there is a 12 year deadline for all who have lived legally in india, whether they are muslims or christians or belong to other faiths or ethnicities. it is more a case of selective privilege, i.e. positive discrimination. the question then arises whether there is really anything to criticize in this context. the criticism that can certainly be made, in my view, is that in the context of the debate on this law, the law on the registration of citizens is also being revised. there is a fear that many citizens cannot prove that they actually have a right to be in india. i think we need to clarify that. i am glad that we are now waiting until we have the opportunity to speak to government representatives here in two weeks' time or perhaps at the next opportunity. then we should also make our judgment in light of what the supreme court says. i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive view of the situation in the community.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i find and many of the people i represent find the indian citizenship act amendments alarming. this cannot be dressed up. this is a highly discriminatory piece of legislation which targets a specific religion. muslims are singled out and the threat that this legislation represents to the secular nature of india should be clear, and it’s all very well asking the indian government what’s actually going on, what they think, but i don’t believe this is necessarily a government they can trust. i mean, they’re going to say that it’s okay, but the reality appears to me to be somewhat different, and the reports of violence that we hear from india are on the increase. i think a message needs to be sent to the indian government from the european union – because this is a government of hindu nationalism, a populist government out of the same mold that we have seen elsewhere in the world. the message needs to be very clear: whether it’s kashmir or the rights of citizens, respect for human rights is an essential element of the arrangements that this union makes with other partners, and without that respect for human rights, our relationship as the european union with india will come under serious threat.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, india takes in persecuted refugees from afghanistan, pakistan and bangladesh – and they’re the bad guys? no, they’re the good guys. they’ve taken in the refugees. this motion does not censure any of those three muslim countries for having created this refugee crisis. the un minorities declaration of 1992 states that minorities can be classified as national, ethnic, religious, linguistic or cultural. this act, the caa, is just focused on persecuted religious minorities seeking refuge in india. thus, muslims coming from those three muslim countries cannot be considered minorities. muslims do have a right to become indian citizens by the 1955 act, of course. the caa allows christians, hindus, buddhists, jains and parsis and sikhs to become citizens after six years of living in india. these are persecuted religious minorities. there are many things wrong with our motion today, but i’ll just give you four: rohingyas, tamils, police violence and the national register of citizens. rohingyas are a religious muslim minority leaving myanmar for bangladesh. when they come from bangladesh to india they become economic migrants because they’re coming from a majority muslim state. violence and brutality of the police: let me inform you that 57 policemen had bullet wounds in a demonstration in lucknow. tamils are an ethnic minority, not a religious minority. the national register of citizens is not even mentioned in the caa. are we saying that india, or any other country for that matter, is not allowed to document the people living inside its boundaries? the caa is in front of the supreme court and thus should be considered sub judice. the real reason for this motion has come before us: the india-eu summit. should we not be talking to the indians rather than criticising them and playing neo—colonial politics. we must have a debate but we must also have a summit.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i say to my colleagues that i am utterly heartbroken by the appalling decision that we have taken today to postpone the cross-party resolution on india’s islamophobic citizenship act – a resolution to which all the main groups had committed and the epp has co-signed, but today they have chosen to postpone the vote yet again. faced with the pressure of india’s diplomatic lobby, the eu have crumbled, capitulated, prioritising yet another trade summit with india over our commitment to protecting human rights. we have refused to take a stand on this islamophobic policy which could drive 200 million muslims – nearly half the eu’s population – toward statelessness, incarceration or deportation. in the state of assam, 1.9 million citizens have already felt the curse of this nationalistic move by modi. it’s shameful. now, many words were said in this chamber today and from your seat to say that the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good people to do nothing. today, colleagues, we are doing nothing – to protect the rights of muslims. today’s persecuted peoples. this will be the very last time i address parliament, but i want to leave you with this simple plea: do not allow the indian government to use its diplomatic and political might to buy itself impunity. stay strong and principled and fight against human rights violations and injustices, speak truth to power and hold, the authoritarians to account, but you must act. words are not enough.
madam president, earlier, at the start of this session, we had a very powerful lesson in history, a lesson that’s painful for this chamber because that’s one of the reasons this house came into being: where one group of people decided another group of people were going to become stateless. i thought this chamber had learned that lesson and i thought that we were going to be moving on, but what we see now – yes, you can have your meetings and resolutions, but i say to you: i have tried so hard to get this resolution on the table. i postponed the last one. i sat down with all the groups and i thought we had an agreement, but we haven’t. i’m going to be away from here now, i’ll be gone. god forbid, god forbid, if something terrible happens to that new group of people that are going to be made stateless, i can go away with a hand on my heart and say, ‘i did everything possible’, but individuals in here from the top table downwards thought that business and trade interests were more important than human rights. that’s what you’ve done today. well done. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – apologies for taking my headphones off. if you looked at the motion in ‘h’, this nrc has been enacted in just one state. one state, and 1.9 million people cannot prove that they are indian citizens. what on earth are you going to do with those people? because there are already detention camps set up. that’s why i say to you, remember your history: in nuremberg, that law was also passed, and that was ‘legal’. just because a law is passed in a parliament doesn’t mean it is legal. learn from our history. i am taking his home with me. i am going to hold this in my drawer. god forbid if anything happens, those people that stop this vote today, i’ll be publicly naming them and saying ‘these are the people that have led to this tragedy’.
madam president, i may be happy today that democracy is finally being implemented in the uk, but i am also very sad. i’m sad at the uk taking a path that is incompatible with democracy. i loved how the nations united around trade after the second world war. for us it was good, it was hopeful, it was positive, but it has morphed it has morphed into something very different that labels criticism as populism, that needs to steal democratic agency from people in order to run smoothly. this is not a recipe for peace that i recognise, and i just pray that you self-reflect after we leave. please do not treat democracy like an obstacle that you need to navigate around for efficiency. the smooth running of the eu should not come at the cost of democratic agency for your people. please, please take heed. we do not leave in a way that is unfriendly, and it’s not as if we want bad relations. we love europe; brexit was never a rejection of europe. we are your friends and we wish to remain your friends.
madam president, as britain prepares for life outside our membership of this union, i thought i would reflect on just how damaging this union has been for my country. you say that the union has been good for democracy. i fail to see how democratic this place is, while governed by unelected, largely unaccountable bureaucrats no one has ever heard of. you say this union has been good for jobs and industry. well, that’s a laugh and a half: in my region, the steel industry has collapsed, leading to huge job losses due to state-aid legislation that this place has imposed. you say that the union is value—for—money, yet britain has been contributing the second—highest amount to the eu, and you continue the traveling circus to strasbourg every month at a cost of roughly eur 114 million a year. but listen carefully: brexit is a warning shot to many of you, who blindly ignore the public who view you as wasteful, ignorant and distant. if you do not learn the lessons of britain’s departure from this house of largesse, you will consign yourselves to the dustbin of history.
mr president, the brussels hierarchy wants the eu to be a superpower. well it has achieved that in one sense: it is a regulatory superpower. on that score, it has got no global peer. the whole raison d’être of the eu is regulation. it is a form of directive economics but has the advantage of not being paid for by taxation, as the costs are borne by businesses and passed on to consumers. regulation is really a subspecies of central planning. what shocks me is how europe has developed economically: it is truly status, where only large multinationals thrive due to crony capitalism. its attitude to business in general, start—ups, innovation in the sciences and technology and the sheer scale of regulation have been anti-competitive, anti-growth and job-destroying. so, as we leave the eu, i believe the economic consequences will be hugely positive for the uk – not least through regaining our regulatory autonomy and the ability to do our own free—trade deals. we should strive to become singapore on terms the eu fears so much. so i warn you: as i look forward to the eu’s prospects for 2020, i see negative interest rates, the start of qe once again and a (microphone clicks) state of the economy. so please watch and be careful, because your economy is in tatters.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think the commission has put forward a really ambitious programme for 2020 and also set the right priorities, but it has already been mentioned now it is of course about implementation. and in doing so, i say, quality is more important than quantity. so, mr vice-president, i prefer an impact assessment of the legislation to a regulation which is perceived by the citizens as a burden. the green deal has been the subject of much discussion, and i shall be giving it to myself today. i would like to highlight three other points: firstly, i think it is good that a basis for discussion on artificial intelligence and a data strategy will be presented very soon. i was also very pleased to read that the nis directive is to be revised. cybersecurity is also a key element in ensuring secure data transfers in the european union. i am very pleased that an industrial strategy will also be presented in march, and above all i am pleased that the emphasis will also be on small and mediumsized enterprises. in our family farms, in our small and mediumsized enterprises, there are the jobs, there are the jobs created, there are the young people trained! in this respect, i think it is good that the new commission is also giving particular attention to smes in the european union. and last but not least, migration is one of the core issues. i am confident about that too and await the new proposals. if we do not solve this problem, we will have a long-term problem in the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our group has presented a work programme with our priorities in the last few days, and i cannot but welcome the fact that many of these are now the commission's own priorities. however, i must stress that we still expect more from the central authorities. we expect more from a new pact on immigration, which focuses on solidarity between states and the creation of safe and legal channels for entry into europe. we expect more from a fairer taxation, which will tackle the tax evasion of large companies. and above all we expect more from the resources, from the budget, which we know is not just up to the commission but also up to the heads of state and government. but without resources, vice president shefcovic, you can't do much. the green deal, for example, on which the whole world is watching what we are putting together, well the billion envisaged by the commission, but we still believe that more fresh money is needed for the just transition fund, but not from the cohesion funds or agriculture. we continue to believe that if we do not involve the states in this green transformation, which is also the transformation of our economic model, we will not get the results we hope for. there is no concrete commitment in this programme to review the rules of the stability and growth pact, which we should start calling the growth pact for stability. our priority is growth because without growth there is no stability and growth is achieved if we give more flexibility to the states for investment, especially the green ones for the ecological transition by discounting them from the deficit-gdp calculation.
madam president, i am so honoured to be able to speak to you this morning on behalf of the people of scotland. i thank you for the warmth of your welcome over the last four weeks and i am so pleased to have settled status for four days as an mep. i wish with all my heart that we could continue to have the conversations we have started with you about the green deal, sustainable food and farming, a just transition, pesticide, reforming the common agricultural policy (cap), but for now, we can’t. but i know you will do these discussions justice. my plea today is for you to remember scotland in your work programme. just imagine how difficult it is for a country like scotland, which has pledged its allegiance to the european union on no less than three occasions, to be taken out against our will and without our consent. we do not live in a united kingdom; we live in a disunited kingdom, and brexit is not the settled will of the scottish people, but we are resilient and we have long memories. we have shared a long history with you in europe, both before our current union with england and hopefully in the future. tomorrow, the scottish government will publish the strategic priorities for scotland in the eu. we know our best future is with you, and when the people of scotland have to choose between two unions, they are deciding to choose the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i was going to aim for the point. a new push for european democracy we're gonna be testing that in here today. the eu's vision of democracy is the eu's and the eu's alone. some other visions of democracy are not accepted. that's considered deviant behavior. the eu deeply abhors national self-determination and does everything to break the sovereignty of nations. we now have a new rule in the house that we can no longer have any flags in the room. i wonder then whether the flags above the speaker's podium will be lowered when we return to the vote in about an hour. will the eu flag be removed? i suppose a ban is something you have to be pretty consistent with. i can accept if it is that we are not allowed to have flags in this hall. i also expect the flags that are hanging up here, including the eu flag, to be taken down.
madam president, i would like to thank you. yesterday we voted for brexit, the end of a process that had been going on for years and which could have led, and should have led, to serious self-criticism. i would like to say that the commission is still in business as usual. i have a very serious question. why does the commission not base its work programme on the un sustainable development goals? are we in europe too remarkable to follow them? it's a very serious question. instead, you come up with your own titles, such as 'a stronger europe in the world' and 'promoting the european way of life', whatever that is. it's not serious, and it's not gonna be good. i want to stress three things. first of all: the climate and biodiversity must come first. it's not enough to have a climate bill for 2050. we should have binding targets of 70 per cent by 2030. you have to have that. secondly: we need a plan for equality, not charity, not minimum, not crumbs. we are facing an equality crisis. this should have been in the package. thirdly: we need a blueprint for democracy and the rule of law. it's not a condition you can opt out of. it's fundamental to our work. it's not there.
madam president, after the historic vote yesterday, colleague terry reintke asked this parliament to sing auld lang syne. the people of europe are our friends: they always have been and they always will be. we have no quarrel with the people of this incredible continent, but merely the political structures and the institutions to which we say good-bye tomorrow. we don’t forget old acquaintances, but we sing auld lang syne on new year’s eve for a different reason. we remember the old year but we also look forward to the new. we don’t lose our old friends but we forge new relationships and make new resolutions for the future. in the coming months there will be intense negotiations, and they will dominate the commission’s work programme to a great extent. this will be, unfortunately, the last time i speak in this place, and i bid you all a fond farewell. however much we may have disagreed on issues, i bear no malice towards any of you. there’s so much i could say but so little time in which to say it. so i’ll mention only one thing that’s so close to my heart. i ask, in the spirit of cooperation, one simple thing of the commission and the british government, which is of vital importance to me: please do not use the fishermen of the uk and of the european union as a bargaining chip, or the vast number of people employed in processing once those fish have been landed. please do not sell out our fishermen. they have endured so much for all the last 40 years. please do not put them through any more suffering. so we say farewell to political union but hello to a new britain, which will always be close allies to our new european neighbours. may our new relationship be everything it should be. let us now work together to build that new harmonious relationship.
mr president, last week was indeed a disaster for the catalan and valencian coasts, because of this storm, paradoxically called 'gloria', which also affected the balearic islands or northern catalonia, in french territory, or spanish autonomous communities such as murcia, andalusia or aragon. in catalonia, the regions of girona and the ebro lands were particularly devastated. climate change is undoubtedly the main cause of this storm. however, in the case of the ebro, the impact has been increased by the previous situation of the river delta. today it should be remembered that spain does not comply properly with the water framework directive, which requires that sediments accumulated in the river's dams be released or drained to the mouth, to avoid the delta's regression. the catalan meps have been demanding compliance for years. today the delta has lost more than eight million square meters of land, and during the storm, seawater has penetrated more than two miles [3 km] inland. gloria has caused 14 deaths in spain, 15 000 hectares of land in girona and 3 000 in the ebro lands. what does the commission propose to help the generalitat defend these damaged lands?
mr. president, mr. commissioner, you have no idea the damage my land is suffering. a flood is a catastrophe. two floods in a few months is catastrophic climate change. in september, the damage in the valencian community exceeded eur 1 500 million. in the last floods we have not yet counted them, but in agriculture alone they exceed 62 million euros. they've lost fields, roads, bridges. the buffer zone has been severely damaged, and human lives have been lost. and the european aid, commissioner, is not coming. the solidarity fund for the september floods has not yet been activated and the spanish government has already requested it, and the structural fund has not been used for cleaning up ravines or for correcting waterways. we need european help, because climate change is not going to affect us alone; we are at the forefront, but it is going to affect all of us. let me tell you that this is going to happen again; that the damage is largely avoidable; that we need a special action plan for the valencia buffer - a unique natural site in the world which can be lost if we do not take care of it - and that the transitional funds for the ecological economy must not only take account of the changing economy, but also take account of the fact that nature must adapt to this new economy and that these damages which are now so often caused to my land must be covered by aid so that neither farmers nor businessmen nor people lose their businesses or, above all, their lives again.
mr president, mr commissioner, 14 people have lost their lives. it is the second time in four months that our beaches, fields and towns have been flooded, flooded and devastated by the relentless effects of climate change on the spanish mediterranean coast, and especially in the valencian community, my constituency, one of the most vulnerable areas in europe. it is urgent that the commission should act decisively, stand with the citizens and work with the spanish authorities, urgently providing all the resources provided for in the funds to combat the effects in the short term. but it is essential to act in the medium and long term to minimise the effects of climate change in the future. that is why, commissioner, i ask the commission to draw up a specific climate strategy for the mediterranean of a cultural nature. we're running out of time. the valencia estuary, the ebro delta and the mar menor in murcia are areas of very high ecological value which need to be protected and the resources and cooperation of all administrations are needed. not one less life. the citizens are waiting for us and we cannot fail them.
mr president, i will try to be very brief too. i want to express my support for the spanish people, our utmost solidarity. we need your help as soon as possible. from my own country, the czech republic, i can say that we have always had a very good experience with the solidarity fund. but the only thing i would point out is the length of time it took to process the requests. so please, try to do your best to get the applications from spain resolved as soon as possible, because the solidarity fund is a very good instrument, but if we wait or the member states wait for more than six months for the real money to come, the real aid, it is a really big delay. i personally think we should consider a total reform of the solidarity fund. climate change will require more money to be allocated to individual member states affected by climate change in the future, and a mechanism to respond in a more flexible and resilient way will really need to be found. if you spend several months assessing a specific request to the commission and then the council and parliament decide, the aid comes in nine to 12 months. so please, help spain, but also figure out how to make the whole instrument more efficient in the future and shorten the time the state has to wait before it gets real support.
mr president, the storm gloria hit spain and especially the mediterranean sea last week. waves of 40 feet in my homeland, the balearic islands, hit houses, beaches, roads; they wiped out levante promenades; ports were closed all over spain, in barcelona, in valencia, in mahon, in ciudadela. there were deaths and disappearances, also in my country, a lot of damage, shortages. and that had an impact and has an impact on human, economic and social throughout spain. manacor, san lorenzo, son servera, capdepera, santanyí, felanix, pollensa, were some of the municipalities of my land, the balearic islands, very much damaged by that storm. i request the activation of the solidarity fund. it was amended recently, in the last legislature, to remove administrative formalities. it is necessary to teach the soul of european solidarity more than ever to spain and more than ever to these regions.
mr president, today i participate in my final debate as a uk mep and, as a green, it seems sadly fitting that this is a debate on solidarity within this union in response to a disaster in spain, and i’d like to express my personal sympathy and solidarity with all those affected. floods such as this can no longer be called entirely natural disasters because, as we know, climate change is making these disasters, tragically, more frequent and more severe. in my seven months in this chamber, i have pushed hard for stronger and faster european action to address the climate crisis. today, in the gallery, i am joined by 28 young people from the west midlands. their voices and their generation’s voices have been heard loud and clear. we must take faster and stronger action on the climate and ecological crisis. (applause)although i will no longer serve in this house due to brexit, i return to the uk to push for that strong action in my own country and i urge you, my european friends and colleagues, to increase your level of ambition in this area. i hope that the spirit of solidarity within this union grows ever stronger, and i hope that together we can act in a spirit of global solidarity to tackle the challenges that we face together, ensemble, zusammen.
i am sorry, i said there won’t be any discussion on the flags. it was a decision of the president. i will refer back to him and there might be follow—up discussions, but not now.
madam president, it is in fact in regard to a point of procedure. this group, this party delegation, which was the largest in the elections, which represents over 5.4 million votes, more than the populations of some states that are members has been completely ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i am sorry, this is not a point of order either.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
madam president, thank you very much for giving me the floor before these votes. i would like to remind all voting right now for a resolution on gender equality and economic institutions we made here in this house in march 2019. this resolution is referring to the fact that there has to be gender balance when doing these votes. all the candidates here are men and this is a reminder of this resolution.
colleagues, since it’s the last vote with our british colleagues, i would like to thank them for all their work in the european parliament and wish them all the best. (standing ovation)that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended briefly)
madam president, yesterday when we voted on the withdrawal agreement, it was the hardest vote for me in the last five years. i want to say that i did not agree with the uk's withdrawal, but i voted for this agreement because it is important that the uk's withdrawal is based on an agreement that allows for a good position for eu citizens in britain and british citizens in the eu, a good preparation for the next good cooperation and partnership in the eu. that's why i voted for this deal, even though i'm very sad, very unhappy about the british leaving, we'll miss them here, but i believe it wasn't goodbye, it was goodbye.
madam president, today, many, many hundreds of thousands of uk citizens are grieving their loss of eu citizenship. i pray this house finds a way to be generous to them, to us. do not treat, please, us as churlishly as our brexiteers have treated you. i warn you all of the dangers of populism. we are the first victims; do not let there be more. i could not vote for this disgraceful agreement. it is, of course, better for the eu than it is for the uk: a fact which the uk seems to be blind to. i thank this house for its continuous courtesy. goodbye.
madam president, thank you for allowing me to speak. today, i’m the voice of millions of uk citizens. i am heartbroken. the personal sense of loss is enormous; the loss of my freedoms and rights, the loss of my eu citizenship, part of my very identity that i value so much. i know in my heart that brexit is a mistake, and i don’t think i will ever be able to forgive the self—serving politicians who have brought it upon us. ours is a great nation, but we are greater in the eu. the uk should be leading in europe, not leaving. i am heartbroken.
madam president, yesterday in this chamber, along with my liberal democrat colleagues, i voted against the brexit withdrawal agreement. i did this because i believe this withdrawal agreement is a bad deal for britain. there is no deal that is as good for the uk as remaining a member of the european union. the next few months will bring us insecurity; not just for our country but also for european citizens living in the uk and british citizens living in europe. this deal does not go far enough to protect their rights. i’m appalled that this issue was not at the forefront of boris johnson’s government negotiations and ashamed that it fell on the eu negotiation team to fight for. i hope that over the next few months our eu colleagues and friends will support us through these very difficult times. please do not fall to the demands of boris johnson’s government, weakening citizens’ rights. hopefully, we will continue to work closely together as neighbours, continuing the fight to stop catastrophic climate change and keep peace in the world at these turbulent times. my hope is that we will remain close friends and allies, and one day we will be back.
madam president, i’m really proud to have voted for the withdrawal agreement and to uphold the democratic mandate of the british people to leave the european union. while the agreement is deeply imperfect, i was really heartened by the prime minister boris johnson’s promises on divergence, ending the rule of the european court of justice, fishing and promising no extension. mr verhofstadt’s speech yesterday only confirmed my view that britain leaving the eu is the right decision. he said the reason for brexit was because the eu had given too much, too many opt-ins and opt-outs. his future is for the eu to take over complete sovereignty from its member states. this is not the lesson of brexit. the lesson is that the drive from an economic union to an overbearing political superstate, distant from the daily lives of its citizens, will always end in failure.
madam president, it’s been a privilege and a pleasure to serve here since 2014 for the northwest of england and particularly because, before i was in politics, i worked with young people and i participated in many programmes that were supported by youth in action, which became erasmus+ and which brought young people together across boundaries. well, i voted against the withdrawal agreement because i cannot in good faith ratify a deal that will wreck the economy, weaken citizens’ rights and social protections, limit opportunities for those very young people, threaten peace, security and stability, and damage the uk’s international reputation. many people will argue that it’s time for acceptance, but i think it’s time for truth telling and accountability. this has never been about my job as an mep, but about the millions of jobs at stake because of brexit and the families and the communities that will be adversely affected, and most of them are marginalised people in deprived communities to whom the eu held out a helping hand when our own government in westminster ignored us.
madam president, it was not easy voting for the withdrawal act yesterday. however, boris has made amendments and, thanks in huge part to the pressure from the brexit party, promised that there would be no level playing field, nor an extension beyond 2020 and these promises lent boris a huge majority in the general election, which gave his brexit strategy a democratic mandate that the brexit party must respect. over the next 11 months, boris will have to prove he is a man of honour and deliver on his promises and, of course, we will be waiting in the wings. this beautiful democratic movement that is flourishing in the uk will act as an inspiration. an inspiration to those who feel their democratic agency and stake in the rules they have to live under are at risk. our vote is an equaliser between prince and pauper. it is the safeguard between us, the people, and the establishment abusing its power. it is worth fighting for and i thank the patience of the millions of brits who did not take to the streets in violence when their vote and voice were being dismissed, but with perseverance, fortitude and resilience proved to people all over the world that change can be enacted peacefully through the ballot box.
madam president, i voted for the agreement with a message from many brexit voters in the uk: this is not goodbye but au revoir, as my t—shirt says. not because we’ll be back in the eu, but because we will see you soon, as friends and equals in each and every nation state represented here. we don’t need the eu to manage our friendships and collaboration as european colleagues. let’s keep in touch. i am a proud european. i owe europe, not the eu, for my politics and principles. i learned the best way to fight for individual citizens’ rights is through nation states; a lesson from rousseau and the enlightenment philosophers. i owe my love of classical music to beethoven; his ode to joy is a hymn to freedom, not a faux eu anthem. finally, thanks to those of you who have listened and been open-minded on brexit. thanks to those of you on the left and right who value national sovereignty and democratic accountability. good luck, au revoir, let’s keep in touch.
madam president, i want to thank every mep singing with us yesterday, and the kindness shown to british meps. it has made a deep impression on the british people. brexit was close to being stopped. when the government lost its majority, a new government with a leader trusted by labour, liberal democrats and sensible ex-conservatives could have been formed and put brexit back to the people. it wasn’t done. progressive people and parties have to put our common ground ahead of our disagreements and the mistakes of the past. compromise is not bad, it’s the way people get things done. attacks on each other help our opponents. we can win the chance for britain’s young people to rejoin the eu. we can overturn johnson’s majority in 2024. we can make britain a great country again – if we have the courage to take each other’s hands, not just in this chamber but in the future.
madam president, the vote which took place yesterday on the withdrawal agreement was not an easy choice for me. the withdrawal agreement as it stands, although improved from the original draft, is far from the brexit which i had envisioned. issues of the northern ireland border, the redaction of the lord dubs amendment on child refugees and the 39 billion all made me less than jubilant to vote in favour of the agreement. however i stood for election in may of last year on the principle of democracy and the return of sovereignty to the british parliament. boris johnson won that mandate in december of last year. therefore, it’s not the role for me or any other mep to overturn the democratic decision of the british people: both the referendum in 2016 and the support given to boris’s brexit deal. this is not to say that i have succumbed to the charms and promising words of the prime minister. far from it. i remain sceptical of the promises which boris has given to brexiteers and his ability to ensure that the brexit he delivers reflects the concerns of those across the whole country, and not just the tory shires. i hope boris won’t disappoint the 17.4 million.
madam president, i am spanish, i represent spain, a country which for centuries has had a very problematic, if not constantly struggling, relationship with the united kingdom. now for forty years we had learned to live together, to respect each other. the spanish had discovered another united kingdom. it's a pity that, by the action of a few, this is over. the same people who will now write memoirs - and get paid for it - about how they tore the unity of europe - not the european union, of europe - apart, putting us all at risk. as my colleagues have said, they will take up that responsibility later in the future. they must not run away like mr farage did after the referendum. let them show their faces when nationalisms return, when we return with our hatreds, which have provoked all these people. we will continue to support our friends, the true british, those who have the fight, the courage in their veins, that they have shown for centuries, even against us the spanish. but we will continue to work together, because we appreciate you and we have discovered your true nature within the european union.
madam president, it grieves me deeply that the eu negotiators and now the european parliament have bowed to boris johnson’s threats and accepted a blank document on the false claim that it provides an orderly way out. i voted against the so-called withdrawal agreement because it gives no basis for trust and contradicts the expressed wishes of our devolved assemblies. it sets an absurd timescale for achieving brexit before 2021 and offers no safety net should that not be achieved. oh, brexit, thou most wretched sad event! is this the taking back control they meant? the vandals sought to smash the 28 ... but soon they’ll find their britain’s lost its ‘great’. we came, we loved, we hoped, we fought, we lost. there is no brighter dawn. we count the cost. my parting gift is this small ring of verse. we’ll meet again when things go well, not worse. (applause)
madam president, that was a wonderful ode to brexit. a little bit depressing, but i enjoyed it nonetheless. (laughter)i voted for the withdrawal agreement for the simple reason i believe in democracy. we’ve been going through the charade for almost four years and finally, we had an election that has cleared it once and for all. brexit has finally been delivered. it took us, the brexit party, our colleagues here, to be elected into a chamber we don’t want to belong to, in order to change the course of history, and we have done that. the brexit party deserves all the credit for what we’re seeing this week. it was only through our courageous stance against the establishment, against the two-party system that has finally delivered what this country, our great country, voted for – to leave the eu. so i’m immensely proud of what we’ve achieved, all the colleagues here, it’s a beautiful achievement. i know there’s been some crocodile tears from the other side but don’t worry, the future is fantastic for great britain, we always show europe the way and we will do in the future. god bless you all.
madam president! i respect the sovereign decision of the british people, which is why i voted for the deal. let the british exit be a cup of cold water on the burning heads of the federalists. the brexit campaigners have repeatedly said that the national parliaments of the eu's individual member states currently have little power to block eu legislation. time to learn from brexit stop uncontrolled migration, the taking over of member states' competences, over-regulation, the dominance of the court of justice. the european union without the british will not be the same. let's learn from this. it is certainly worthwhile to give a thoughtful and firm red card to those who think and want to federate the european union.
madam president, i voted against the brexit agreement not to oppose the agreement but to oppose brexit, at least symbolically. brexit is, to quote talleyrand, ‘worse than a crime, it is a mistake’. brexit is a failure and mistake and a european drama of historical and strategic dimension with long—term geopolitical consequences we do not yet understand and grasp. both sides are to blame. i regret that there is no sign of reflection on the eu side as to why we lost the uk and why we betrayed the eu whole and free. the eu will be weaker and not complete without the uk. it will be weaker politically and it will be weaker economically – because the economy of the uk is equivalent to 19 economies of the small and medium—sized member states – and will be weaker in terms of defence and military. a weaker eu will have to face ever—growing threats from the outside and inside. we should really go into reflection as to why all that happened.
madam president, i want to thank the people of wales, who gave me the opportunity to represent their views to remain in the european union in this european parliament. it has been the best of times and the worst of times; the best of times, ensuring that the rights, the values and the solidarity of the many are represented and the majority of people voting to remain in the european parliament elections in wales. all of the rights, including the measures on equal pay and the pensions gap, have been a real pleasure to be able to vote for. looking to the future, johnson must own the negative outcomes of brexit now. wales will take its place within the uk, europe and the world and it will grow – because we have common values, rights and solidarity with the peoples across the european union and the world. finally, i’d like to say thank you to my colleagues, the staff in both my office and in the european parliament and finally my son, for whom i did this in the first place and the next generation.
madam speaker, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this motion because it was the sovereign will of the british people, it was the decision of the british people. and they did not do so because someone else had given them the wrong decision, but because they were forced by the years of false campaigning of the brussels bureaucrats, who were trying to usurp more and more national sovereignty, who were trying to replace national identity, national belonging, national flags. by the way, today's debate is very revealing. what we started with was the president's ban on displaying national flags. this myth is one of the reasons people in the united kingdom voted to leave, because you can't stop someone from feeling british or polish or czech or bulgarian. when you do that, you're putting pressure on people. when you push people, they decide to leave a place they're not welcome. because you can forbid them to put their banners on the bleachers, but you can't take them out of their hearts. everyone carries his flag, his identity, his name inside his heart and protects it and that's what the brussels bureaucrats didn't learn. that's what they need to learn if they want to have a union like this.
madam president, you’ve got to get in to get out. that’s why i and my colleagues came here. the withdrawal agreement undoubtedly stinks, but i held my nose and voted for it because nigel farage won a personal commitment from boris johnson that there would be no extension of the transition after 31 december, because the uk would abandon the anti-competitive delusion of regulatory alignment. now by adopting these positions the uk has retrieved key bargaining power, leverage. we can walk away from a bad deal, we can protect our fisheries, our defences, make our own laws and hold our politicians to account. so narcissus has been turned to a flower, a flower but with a sweeter perfume than at first bloom. that’s why i voted for it.
madam president, i supported this timetable, but i took the opportunity to explain my approach and position on the issue. i still think that when this calendar was approved, the work of meps in the national states was not taken into account. in my opinion - and i am making this point for the record - the work of the mep as a politician in brussels, strasbourg and in the national country is extremely important. and i only say, although i supported the calendar, that if i perceive that there is a lack of so-called green weeks, it is not because members want more 'free time', but to be able to work more politically in their national state. in some eu countries, especially in our country, the czech republic, we are debating the alienation of the eu and its ideas from the normal population. if meps are not working in their national states and cannot explain the ideas of european integration, then of course this also has a negative impact and does not contribute to the perception of european integration.
madam president, what i have said is also valid for this coming year, and i repeat it, and i think that we should in future strengthen the work of meps in their national states. and that more green weeks and more time to work at home is not about meps working less, but political work in the nation states is, in my view, extremely important. and as i said, if we do not want to see the anti-european tendencies strengthened in the nation states, it is necessary that those who believe in the ideas of the eu explain this to their constituents, to their children in primary and secondary schools, and when there is not enough time for this, of course the commitment is not so great. so please, let's consider this idea going forward, that more green weeks doesn't mean more free time, but more space for work, for political work in the nation states.
madam president, i have finally decided to support this resolution. i agree with the call for the commission to take action, and to do so in a relatively short time, to complete the radio equipment directive. the commission should also regularly evaluate innovation and promote the development of new technologies. in 2016, each european produced 16 kg of waste. i emphasize the electrical waste. that's 10 kilograms more than the world average. if we're going to deliver on the green deal that we've adopted, universal charging is just one step we can take to help improve the environment, to save resources. we have to remember that these are not just phone chargers, but also tablet chargers and e-reader chargers. that's why i supported this motion.
madam president, i voted for the recommendation to standardise power cables. what household doesn’t have boxes of unused, out—of—date, unwanted cables? i have four children. over the years, with computers, phones, games consoles, toothbrushes – you name it – we have four boxes stuffed full of cables, wires and chargers. now, there are schemes to recycle these, but we worry that we might need them again, like every other household, so we don’t throw them away. every time we update an appliance we get yet more cables and chargers and they are all different. it’s ridiculous, it’s unnecessary and it’s time to change.
madam president, i fully support this initiative, which the ppe group has been calling for throughout my time as an mep. it is simply common sense that we would have a common charger for all electronic devices, such as our mobile phones, our tablets, kindles, fitbits, etc. not only does this cut down on waste and unnecessary electronic accessories, it achieves something that we, as meps, are elected to do: it makes life easier for european citizens. this is an opportunity to make a real difference to people’s lives. everyone knows there are far too many cables and charges in our homes and this amounts to around 50 million tonnes of waste globally every year, as mr wallace just mentioned. with this resolution, we are calling on the commission to come forward with an ambitious and comprehensive proposal within the next six months that will establish a standard common charger for smartphones. this has been a long time in coming and has required a lot of work to get here, but i’m glad that we are finally seeing some progress on this important issue. this is a battle we must win, the same as we won the battle to end roaming charges.
madam president, the gender pay gap, which is on average 16% in the european union, is something that is very unfair, and although there is improvement in some countries, it is very slow. it is true that the european union is taking a number of measures to help member states to improve this situation, because it is a matter of subsidiarity and of pressure on member states and their measures to change this. for example, i am very positive about the work-life balance directive, which can help parents to focus on both their children and their careers, and thus to launch their careers, which is often the reason for the large financial gaps. i think this is the right way. i finally abstained because i do not agree that we should be imposing too many obligations at european level on both the private sector and the national states to make fundamental changes to their legislation, particularly in terms of limiting the flexibility of working hours.
madam president, i supported the resolution for fairer gender pay. of course women should be treated fairly in the workplace and, as with so many of these issues, the uk is actually way ahead of the eu in this particular area. but why does the uk fail to recognise that the same equalities should extend to those from racial and ethnic minorities? i and others have consistently spoken up in this place about the institutional racism of the european union: the fact that, despite 10% of european citizens come from a racial and ethnic minority, there has never been a black commissioner or senior member of staff. in my time here as an mep, attending hundreds of committees and plenaries, no black person has ever been on a single presiding panel. this institutional racial discrimination is as unacceptable as gender discrimination, and for all its claims about protecting citizens’ rights, this parliament, the commission, the council will never be united in diversity until it puts its own house in order.
madam president, in 2020 it should be anathema to treat men and women unequally and one measure of that is how much men and women in work are paid. the gender pay gap in the eu is 16% and slightly higher in the uk. some people argue that it is just because of a difference in jobs that men and women do. but why is it that the people who control the rates of pay, not least in the public sector or large organisations, have consistently preferred to better reward the jobs done by more men than women? why is there a recruitment culture that has pulled more men than women into certain fields? in part, it’s because men dominate both corporate and trade union leadership and old inequality endures. as an mep, i have often been inspired in my work by thoughts of my baby daughter’s future and so, in my last speech in this parliament, i appeal for equality between men and women.
madam president, i want to say that i’m absolutely delighted that the last vote that i was able to take in the parliament was in favour of this resolution. i’ve been working for 20-odd years on women’s rights and trying to close that pay gap and close the pension gap. we have a lot of work to do, but labour has a very proud history of supporting equality, dignity, solidarity and workers’ rights, whether it’s here or back home or in wales. so i think we’ll continue to do that. let’s hope that the johnson government doesn’t take our rights away, that’s for sure. women and children are at the forefront of being very vulnerable when it comes to pay as well as ending violence, so we must do all we can to stop those instances. finally, i just want to thank everyone who has supported us, and we continue our work for wales across the world. and thank you, callum, for letting your mum fight for equality and solidarity and dignity.
madam president, chers collègues, it is very appropriate that our last vote as labour meps is to support this report on the gender pay gap. much more needs to be done to bring justice and equality in a field that we regard as self—evident. words are easy, but real equality means equal pay. but not everyone agrees. and here is the most important lesson of why this is our last vote, because whenever progress in society is taken for granted, that’s when the backlash begins. when the war is won, that’s when the next battle comes along. the gender pay gap has been most acute where pay is low and jobs go unnoticed. which brings me to some important thanks. ici, je vais prononcer quelques mots en français pour remercier ceux dans ce parlement qui nettoient nos bureaux, les services de sécurité, les cuisiniers, le personnel d’entretien, le personnel chargé des voitures et les chauffeurs. je voudrais vous remercier pour tout votre travail. merci à tous, bonne chance, courage et au revoir. gan canny.
madam president, i abstained on this motion not because i don’t care about the gender pay gap, but because there are other pay gaps that are much wider and less discussed. actually there’s a pay gap at the heart of this place: well-paid eurocrats rule the roost, but behind the scenes, the underpaid and unrecognised heroes are all the staff: the ushers, the drivers, the cleaners, the admin staff, the fantastic translators – who have, by the way, been fabulously gracious and helpful and non-sectarian to all of us in the brexit party: a heartfelt ‘thank you’. can we talk about the class pay gap please, and admit that working-class people throughout europe are getting poorer, often because of austerity policies that emanate from the eu? their pay and their jobs are collateral damage to the economic decisions made in brussels, dominated by the interests of big business, and anyone who kicks back, whether it’s the gilets jaunes or leave voters in the uk, are dubbed populist, traducers, ignorant, or far right. let the lesson of brexit be, in this last speech – my last speech, the last speech: don’t demonise your own citizens. solidarity with the european working class when they fight back, and i hope they fight back with success.
