mr president, unfortunately the nightmare that is happening in australia does not happen by itself, it happens because of climate change. therefore, we disagree with removing the title. however, we do believe that we have a moral responsibility to use resceu all over the world in all possible means. so we would not object to the resceu part being a part of the title, but we would object to removing the reference to climate change from the title.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, (i would like to say to vice-president šefčovič that) the fires in australia are unprecedented, yes, but they’re not unexpected. in 2008, the garnaut report on climate change commissioned by the australian government projected that fire seasons would be longer, fires would be more intense and their effect would increase over time, becoming fully observable in 2020. our own science from the grc of 2018 says exactly the same: longer seasons, larger areas, bigger fires. especially in the south of europe, even in the best case scenario of a 2 degree warming, the projections for the future are near apocalyptic. what did the current neoliberal climate-denying australian government do besides blocking agreement in cop25? they reduced the budget of new south wales for firefighting by 75% and that for rescue by 34%. mr vice-president, we must not do like the australians. we must do as our own scientists and our own children demand. we must invest and innovate in fire adaptation and civic rotation and we must make our resceu and efis capabilities a global leader as part of the external green new deal. (applause)
blue-card question. – thank you, colleague lowe. a very interesting approach towards the high population density and the higher concentration of cigarette butts that might be producing these fires. what is your opinion on the continuing unprecedented heat extremes which produce evermore lower moisture, which creates the ground for larger and larger fires, despite all the cigarette butts?
madam president, the invocation of climate change as the cause of the fires which have claimed dozens of lives and caused untold environmental damage in australia conceals the fact that today science and technology are capable of limiting, preventing and suppressing the consequences of natural phenomena. any changes in the climate cannot be an excuse. on the contrary, it should imply even more political responsibility for governments which not only fail to take the necessary measures but, on the contrary, weaken civil protection and firefighting. australia is dealing with this disaster without comprehensive planning, with a small staff, of which 80% are volunteer firefighters, with means borrowed from other countries. the european civil protection mechanism (resceu) for the member states of the european union is similarly designed. the european union and its governments are pursuing cuts based on the unacceptable cost-benefit criterion, which is not limited to australia. the people must not be reconciled to natural disasters, to the whole of anti-people politics. the people's anger must become an organized struggle to make the environment and the land the property of the people, to take measures to ensure the safety and protection of the people.
madam president, the so-called policy of reconciling family and professional life, of equal opportunities, has led to full flexibility of working time and place of work for women workers, with the result that one third of women in the european union are working part-time. flexible working relationships are one of the factors responsible, for example, for the fact that the wage of a female worker in greece is 17.5% lower than that of a male worker, while in the european union the average wage gap is as high as 40%. modern women's rights at work are not secured by equalising men's and women's wages downwards, as the european union does; especially at a time when capital for improving the competitiveness of businesses is systematically 'explaining' maternity protection, leave and benefits as costs, forcing thousands of workers into unemployment, into half-work-half-life. the decisive struggle of workers against the aggression of the european union, of bourgeois governments, can give new breath and strength to the popular workers' struggle for the modern needs of work, social protection of motherhood and leisure.
mr president, the loss of housing is the first consequence of the policy of impoverishment, mr commissioner, mr president. it's a political consequence. it's not natural, it's not a natural phenomenon. in the south in particular, housing has been the last refuge in the slide towards absolute poverty. under prime minister alexis tsipras, greece's first home was protected "with claws and teeth". today the minister for development of the new government of the right has declared that, as of 30 april, there will be no protection of the first home at all; that is, there will be no such plan. in the light of the un sustainable development goals and mrs von der leyen's programme for the immediate implementation of principle 19 of the european pillar of social rights, i ask: how will access to housing programmes be ensured for all the vulnerable? secondly, i call for a ban on first-home auctions. i believe that the promotion of existing housing should be a universal right, a right guaranteed 'primarily by europe', a right of reintegration into society. and we stress: not housing finance in specific areas, not in a ghetto, but within the core social fabric.
mr president, commissioner, there are various reasons why people can be on the road: a failed education, lack of understanding within the family, discrimination, domestic violence, addiction, sudden unemployment and a health problem. the long-term solutions are again in education and economics. but because the need is urgent, i would also like to refer to the good practices of finland and the 'housing first' programme. we need ambitious targets for the decade. a temporary housing offer, combined with social workers and employment opportunities, is a good framework for reintegration. opportunities for work are what people want so they can stand and watch the sun. these fellow humans were not fortunate enough to have people around to support them in their difficulty. let us be their people! let's build a network of solidarity and support, because we're human beings first and foremost. that's what we show in hardship, not just at christmas!
blue-card question. – does the honourable colleague have an understanding of the cost of the percentage of gdp that adaptation will cost in the case of temperatures rising over the paris agreement?
mr president, for months now there has been talk about the just transition mechanism and the expectations that exist for it. we have heard evidence today and that is very optimistic. i would remind you that in greece more than 5 000 workers will be affected by the closure of the plants in the region of western greece and the municipality of megalopolis. in greece, we are not content with a simple grecovery from the outgoing, as all crisis shows, but we are aiming at a great greek green surprise. it is not enough to tell an organisation or a region to 'go green'. we must show the way and provide the tools, without undermining successful actions aimed at social cohesion. the mechanism should in fact be not only a fair but also an effective transition. we must show people who are going to change jobs that they will not lose their jobs and that there is a plan not only at national or local level but also at european level to safeguard investment, businesses and human resources in each region.
madam president, the european union is not only not absent, as some people say, but on the contrary, together with the united states of america and nato, it bears the heaviest responsibility for the imperialist intervention, the civil war in libya, the dismemberment of syria. the consequences are devastating for the people, and again today the european union-us-nato rivalries with russia and china, with the involvement of countries such as turkey, egypt and others, for the control of energy have created an explosive situation in libya and the region. in this environment, which is dangerous for the peoples, the turkish bourgeoisie is seeking, with the unacceptable turkish-libyan pact, to arbitrarily draw the maritime border in the mediterranean. the narrative of greece's powerful allies and the complacency of the greek government have failed. the united states, the european union and nato consider turkey a strategic partner. their attitude sharpens her aggression. the answer is the intensification of the people's coordinated struggle for no change of borders, against foreign bases, against imperialist associations, so that the peoples can live in peace, with their own power, with respect for sovereign rights.
madam president, standing here, and representing greece, i cannot but stand by turkey's interference in libya. do we understand what turkey's involvement in libya is about? is there anyone here who believes all this erdoğan nonsense about enforcing the law? if one looks only at turkey's recent past, one will only see crimes. the massacre of thousands of kurds in syria, illegal drilling in cyprus, daily violations of the greek border. and now he's illegally sending jihadist mercenaries and weapons to libya. it is clear that erdoğan's desire is to illegally claim eezs through libya, to the detriment of greek sovereign national rights. does the european union know about this? the european union is not going to support the criminal erdoğan financially and politically until when?
madam president, i listened very carefully to mr borrell's analysis and i have to say that we all understand that we are not analysts here, we are politicians. and politicians have to make decisions. we must not be spectators and watch developments but intervene in developments and provide solutions, because that is what the citizens who are struggling and worried about peace in the region want. from the analysis he gave us, it appears that russia and turkey are the dominant powers in the region. why is that ? because we left a void, which they came and filled. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the main problem is turkey. the turkish attitude is what creates and devalues the principles and values of the european union. turkey is showing us by its provocation that it wants to follow its own path. so does anyone today doubt that this behavior is so provocative that it forces and urges us to intervene in order to bring about peace? we shall support all initiatives in this direction. europe must show that it exists and is present in the region, for peace.
madam president, i am really surprised and angry at the same time at what i have just heard from mr borrell. he has officially admitted that russia and turkey are in charge of the region. and especially when we talk about turkey, we are talking about a murderer state, a state that is stained with the blood of innocent, millions of innocent citizens from many countries, and we are at this moment pretending not to see this thing. and we also say that the government of al-sarraj is recognized; that government which is in league with the murderer erdoğan. we know very well that erdoğan has taken forces of jihadists who were fighting in syria and has moved them to libya - he has moved the problem even closer to europe - he is illegally giving arms to al-sarraj, and we here say that we recognize him. this is unacceptable. it is also shameful for the greek government to tolerate the presence of the congo and algeria at the conference in berlin in a few days' time, and the absence of greece. but what you're doing to my country is shameful. you have no right to defend turkey and to wrong greece. after all, greece is a member of the european union. how is it possible that you are constantly acting in favour of turkey? you know what ? we are not prepared to give up on greece and we are not prepared to stop the fight. we will defend our country at any cost. whatever you know about some people who've been bowing their heads, forget it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is both imperative and necessary for europe to claim a leading role in the developments in libya, because we here in europe will be the first to suffer the consequences. so we welcome the berlin peace process, which turkey is torpedoing by insisting on the implementation of the invalid and unfounded cooperation memorandum between turkey and the tripoli government, with the result that haftar has left the negotiating table today. the european union has taken a clear position that the memorandum of understanding between turkey and the tripoli government is in flagrant violation of international law and produces no legal effect whatsoever. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the unresolved turkish challenges are no longer just a threat to peace, but are damaging europe's credibility and, ultimately, undermining its own future.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, let me thank you for this very vivid and fruitful debate. i have listened carefully to today’s points and taken note of your views. it is my role to listen to you. the start date of the conference is yet to be confirmed, but the listening process itself has already started. we are already reflecting and engaging with as many actors as possible. we will need the cooperation of the commission representation offices and the european parliament liaison offices in the member states, who already do tremendous work to bring the european union closer to its citizens. we need them, now more than ever, to lead our efforts. let us remember how this feeds into other areas of my work as vice-president for democracy and demography. we want to hear from all people of all ages and, of course, from the young. i thank the younger members of parliament for today’s debate. i also have to thank pascal durand, daniel freund and ruiz devesa domènec for mentioning ngos. of course, we haven’t forgotten ngos. they will be included, and that was our idea from the beginning. we also have to take care of the older generation, whom we wish to encourage in their active contribution to our society and economy. of course, this concerns not only ngos or older people, but also minorities, entrepreneurs, students, regional and local authorities, mayors and everyone who can say something on the structure, scope and the content of the conference. these views will feed into my work on demography. we want to provide real and workable solutions for our citizens. our democracy is in need of creative and innovative solutions. the results of this process – whatever they are – must be tangible, must be implemented and must be based on the feedback we receive from our citizens. as i already said, this is no longer business as usual. we must be brave and embrace the innovative nature of this process. not everything needs to be known in advance, but we are providing the solid structure necessary for full citizen participation, both online and in person. i want to ensure that every voice is heard and listened to, and that we follow up on it accordingly. it is vital that this process remains open and transparent. i do not want to pre—empt what the citizens have to say, on the contrary, i want to be surprised by them. i’m sure that, together, we can also surprise the citizens. but we, the european parliament, the european commission and the european council, we can do this only by working closely together as real partners. i want to thank you once again for this fruitful debate.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank you for the very useful debate we had today. i have listened carefully to your views on this important subject and taken note of parliament’s position on the conference on the future of europe. this process, which requires long-term vision, should focus on the topics and policies that will continue to be at the forefront of our citizens’ preoccupations in the years to come, especially of the youth. let me assure you that our part of the presidency will continue working towards a definition of the council position on the conference on the basis of which to engage with this house and the commission. as stated by president sassoli and vice—president šuica, cooperation among other institutions will be key to making the most of this idea. i am confident that i can count on your cooperation to find together the right formula so that this initiative can be launched on a shared basis to deliver results for our citizens. thank you very much once again for your attention.
i have received three motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the conference on the future of europe must take account of the urgent need to strengthen democratic legitimacy and restore citizens' trust in the administration. we have to make sure that the future europe remains a christian europe. we must stop blindly following the critical issues. mass illegal immigration, which is distorting european homogeneity and the european way of life, must be tackled immediately and effectively if this is the europe we want: a europe with a strong geopolitical position and an active role on the international chessboard; a europe that will lead in world trade and in economic growth and stability; a europe of citizens, able to protect its sovereign rights from the illegal actions of third states; a europe with more democracy and with greater autonomy of its members, and not a centralised and oligarchic union. we want this europe and we will fight for it.
madam president, we understand your concern because, despite the european parliament's anti-communist resolutions, the campaign of lies, the distortion of history, the provocative equation of communism with the monster of fascism, and the billions of euros for youth literacy programmes, you have not succeeded in rewriting history. that is why you have kept the anti-communist machine running for months: with the despicable anti-communist resolution of september 2019 and with successive debates of an anti-communist character in each plenary. anti-communism is in the dna of the european union. the people know and see the result of this policy: the dismantling of fascist and criminal groups, including the alleged nazi golden dawn in greece, the banning of communist parties in european union countries such as poland and the baltic states, the limiting of the activities of communists, the limiting of their participation in elections, the persecution of militants, the looting of historical monuments. you'll never make it! no matter how hard you try to christen the day of the anti-fascist victory in europe's day, the truth will shine! the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the future of the peoples is incompatible with capitalist exploitation, poverty, war and refugees. socialism is the future!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, although we are wary of the european union's intervention in member states, as we in greece have had a bitter experience with the memoranda and with the troika, in the specific case of poland, i agree, and we agree as a group, to draw up an interim report which will concern not only the judicial system but also all the fundamental rights which are in crisis at the moment we are talking about. that's been the position of our group from the beginning and of the whole progressive arc, as you heard here. at the moment, in poland, the judiciary as a whole is being subordinated to the executive, and the independence of judges is in danger - we heard them today. they are going to make it illegal even to go to the european court of justice. we stand with the judges in their particular struggle, as they must stand with the rights of vulnerable groups, with freedom of the press, with the right to assemble and associate, with the rights of workers, with the rights of women, with the rights of people at risk. that is the europe we want. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not the only one to be consulted on the matter. good luck to the judges.
mr president, mr commissioner, today this house overwhelmingly voted in favour of the commission’s communication on the european green deal. in this proposal, the commission promises to analyse the findings of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report on oceans and propose measures in the maritime area. a week ago, a report published in the journal of advances in atmospheric sciences confirmed that in the past 30 years the oceans are heating 450% faster than they were in the previous 20 years. the oceans, of course, retain 90% of the excessive anthropogenic heat in the atmosphere. the amount of excess heat absorbed by the oceans in these past 25 years equals 3.6 billion hiroshima bombs. as far as we know, the oceans are home to somewhere between half a million and 10 million marine species – in fact, the greatest habitat of biodiversity on our planet. in our resolution today we urge the commission to give the green deal a blue dimension. i ask you, commissioner, to finally put together a true european blue deal. it’s high time we took care of the high seas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the last elections, mr president, have once again demonstrated the public's distrust of the european union. it is therefore imperative that we decode the message that the peoples of europe are sending us and recognise the need to do more; to do more towards full accountability and transparency of the institutions, so that we can combat any manifestation of maladministration and ensure that the rule of law is respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it is not enough to open the door for many to follow, but it is imperative that we also shed plenty of light. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. transparency is not about giving citizens full information about what is happening, but about giving them information in a clear and understandable way so that they can participate effectively at every stage of the legislative process. in this fight, we have as our ally our ombudsman emily o'reilly who, for another year, serves in this position with total dedication. ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council, do not ignore it.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, we would like to change the title of today’s debate from ‘eu strategy for mobility and transport’ to ‘eu strategy for sustainable mobility and transport’, and the reason is obvious. only days after the european green deal has been proposed by the european commission, we must send the right signal that sustainability is our first priority – and not only in terms of climate or the environment, but also in social terms, so that the transition is fair for all. so i would like to ask you to support this request and correct the title for this debate.
madam president, i want to really thank friends and colleagues from across all the political groups for great cooperation over many years. we have certainly not always agreed, but we have all worked for what we believe is in the best interests of the people we represent. my overwhelming feeling is of a job well done, though not always understood back home. i am proud of all that my colleagues have achieved in here over many years and i want to pay tribute to the british conservative meps who have gone before and contributed enormously to this parliament and the legacy we leave behind. i want to thank previous speakers for their very generous remarks towards the uk. it is important that we leave on good terms with a climate of friendly cooperation for productive talks on a trade deal ahead. i am not saying it will be easy, but i do think that it is in the best interests of all of us. finally, i speak as a very proud daughter of a scottish soldier who landed on d—day on the beaches of normandy. we are all europeans. we are certainly leaving the european institutions, but we are not leaving europe.
madam president, for me, brexit is and will remain a historic mistake. however, this withdrawal agreement provides now for an orderly exit of the uk from our eu by addressing all issues that have been of key importance for us in the european parliament from the onset of the negotiations. we must now focus on our common future relations. i believe the eu should enter these negotiations from a position of certainty, good will, respect and mutual interest. at the same time, we need to acknowledge that our partnership will remain close, but will no longer be the same. we need to negotiate a truly ambitious and comprehensive new partnership with the uk, but because of the limited timeframe for negotiations, we cannot expect to agree on every single aspect of our new partnership. we will have to prioritise, as commission president, ursula von der leyen, has pointed out. i would like to thank all members of the brexit steering group for the very good work they have done, and i hope to continue their good work in the uk coordination group, which i’m honoured to chair. more than 100 meetings of the brexit steering group is an impressive track record. let me thank our colleagues, staff and especially mr guy verhofstadt for his excellent work.
madam president, respected colleagues, friday will see the uk leave the eu. the result of the democratic referendum of 2016 will be honoured. that is as it should be. but i also know that it is the end of an era for myself, for my uk colleagues and for my country. even those supportive of brexit know that much has been accomplished through our membership of the eu, and as we look forward to the new opportunities of the future, we should, at the same time, always remember the achievements of the past. as i said recently in my last meeting of the committee on international trade, we require much good will and good faith in our negotiations for our future trading relationship, aiming for a successful outcome which will benefit both the uk and the eu, and i have every confidence that good faith exists and that a successful outcome will, indeed, be achieved. my own view is that this is not the end of the uk’s relationship with europe, but rather the start of a new and enhanced one. the bonds of friendship that bind our countries, all 28 of them, will endure, and, i hope, deepen still further as we work together in future productive partnership.
madam president, ‘how did we get here?’ daniel hannan asked at the beginning of this debate. i’m afraid, dear colleagues, that he didn’t give you a full answer. so let me try. we got here because so—called leaders who acted out of self—interest rather than out of the common good – brexit or remain, boris didn’t really care, did he? he made up his mind at the last minute and saw a ticket into downing street’s no. 10. this is, secondly, what happens when part of the media gets away with misinformation and blatant lies, when journalism, when the tabloids, become entertainment instead of information, democracy ultimately suffers and this is, thirdly, what happens when people no longer speak up for european cooperation. we might – 75 years after the end of the second world war in the west, i need to say – take peace, stability and democracy for granted. but let me tell you one thing: our union is unique and our cooperation is very, very vulnerable. we need to cherish it, yes, we need to improve it, but we also need to speak out and defend it. let that be the lesson that we take out of brexit.
madam president, every day in this house, a member of another delegation says ‘please stay, we want you to remain’. britain’s withdrawal from the european union is a political tragedy that will damage the economic well—being and social fabric of the uk and diminish our country’s standing in the world. we are british and european and part of the most successful social peace project in history. for the clean air we want for our children to eradicating energy poverty, to workers’ rights – that’s got to be worth fighting for. i continue to believe that britain has been and would be best served by being a member of the european union. for our young people and future generations, keep the faith that one day we can come back. thank you. merci. köszönöm. à bientôt. and to you, mairead, go raibh maith agat!
madam president, it is undeniable that today's vote is historic. first of all, i would like to state unequivocally that the united kingdom must be a close ally of the european union and that it is of particular importance that there is a mutually beneficial trade agreement, particularly at a time when international trade rules are being violated and trade protectionism is re-emerging. unfortunately, my dear colleagues, brexit is a fact today. it's a very emotional and very tight day. whether this event will be a historic mistake for the united kingdom will be judged by future historians. the european union must not allow this to become a historic mistake for the union. we must learn from what led to brexit, act, lead and show that europe's values are non-negotiable, timeless and absolutely necessary. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the european union must also take account of this crisis and take positive action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day for those who, like me, believe in an ever closer union and a federal europe. it remains a historical and political fact which no nationalism can erase. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the british government, which is the only one capable of doing so. as socialists and democrats from tomorrow we will work to ensure that the european union and the united kingdom continue to tackle together the great issues of our time, from the fight against inequalities to climate change. to the colleagues who are leaving us today i want to say thank you all for the extraordinary work you have done together and to the labour party colleagues i say thank you, thank you for working with us for bread and roses. i know it's just good-bye. it is our destiny to continue walking together.
madam president, today marks the end of populism in the debate regarding brexit. starting tomorrow, we need to start to work on our future relationship and that needs to be based on reasoning and on facts. we have to recognise reality: european students want to continue to study in uk universities and british students want to continue to study in european universities. european and british researchers want to continue to work together and businesses on both sides of the channel want to continue to invest on the other side. we also have to recognise that the number of british citizens demanding eu citizenship has increased every year after the referendum. so we need to work on a good future relationship and we need to recognise that a close relationship is a good relationship. nevertheless, of course, we also know that the european union and the united kingdom will not be married any more, starting on 1 february, but we want to be friends. the people of the united kingdom should know that, here in the european parliament, there is a majority of members who want to be friends of the british people.
president. - mr president, i am very moved, to tell you the truth, at the end of this debate, which has been very moving at some particular moments, serious, which is important, alongside president ursula von der leyen, to say a few words to you in conclusion. the united kingdom, following a referendum in which a majority of citizens voted democratically, has chosen to leave the union. we, many of us, regretted and will continue to regret this vote, but we respected it and so the task that was given to us by the commission by the governments, by you, was to work to organise this withdrawal. if there is one quality to the treaty before you, ladies and gentlemen - and i will use the words of guy verhofstadt - it is that it will organise the withdrawal of the united kingdom in an orderly manner. brexit, far more and far more than anyone who wanted it has explained or understood, has innumerable consequences - i have told you this time and again - on the human and social, technical and legal, financial and economic levels, and it is not over. what we have tried to do in this treaty, objectively, patiently and respectfully, has been to provide answers or legal assurances for all those and all those and all those sectors where brexit, like divorce, creates innumerable uncertainties. first, citizens and their rights have been your priority since the beginning of these negotiations. we have worked for this treaty in that spirit: an orderly withdrawal. and we have done a lot of work: about 100 brexit steering group meetings, 17 plenary sessions and then i had the honour of reporting to most of your groups on several occasions. at this point i would like to say a special word to guy verhofstadt for the intelligence and objectivity with which he has led the work of the brexit steering group for three years, to each and every member of this group and to all those who have worked for this group, including the parliament's secretariat and your staff. i would like to say that we will continue in the coming year in the same spirit, with the same respect, with the same objectivity, without any aggressiveness, but firmly defending the interests of the union and its member states, along the lines and in accordance with the principles recalled earlier by our president, ursula von der leyen, for the future relationship. by always having the perspective - i've always worked with this perspective - that beyond brexit, the uk is here. a close economic partner, an ally as it always has been and a friend. so we will work to re-create a new legal framework for this alliance between the european union and the united kingdom, to consolidate this friendship and make this partnership work. we will have a second task, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, which is not negligible and which must not be forgotten: it is to implement this agreement in all its dimensions and it will be our job this year to make it operational by the end of the year. i am thinking of citizens' rights and i am thinking in particular of ireland and northern ireland, where peace remains very fragile. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members of the british parliament and all those who, in one way or another, have worked for 47 years to build this european project. i personally remember many of you and many of the elect. i think of andrew duff and richard corbett during the convention. i also think of the two times i had the honour of being european commissioner for the internal market and before that for regional policy, of malcolm harbour, vicky ford, sharon bowles and so many of you in the diversity of groups you represent, with whom i have always had fruitful, important and useful discussions. i wanted to thank you personally. you will just allow me to conclude with three brief messages. the first is that throughout this negotiation and in the coming year, our task has been and will be to deal with the consequences of brexit, but i recommend, as many of you have said very strongly, that in our political responsibility - and i remain a politician - we take the time to listen to the popular sentiment that has been expressed on brexit, which is also expressed in many of our regions: that we take the time to learn the lessons of brexit. the second point is based on a lecture given by a man i like and respect, who was my colleague in the european commission, a british conservative, chris patten. he once gave a lecture in dublin and concluded with the question: can the defence of the national interest be purely national? the defence of the national interest can only be national. we could ask the question in another way: should we not be european in addition to being patriotic? i'm saying, besides, not in place of being patriotic. i am convinced that we can and must be patriotic - i am passionately so - and at the same time european, and that this european dimension gives more strength to our national patriotism. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, let me end with a short message i passed on in belfast on monday at queen's university: in this new beginning, i would really and sincerely like to wish the uk well. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, with your vote tonight and adoption by the council tomorrow of its decision to conclude the withdrawal agreement we will soon be able to move to another, more positive step in the brexit process. the scope of the withdrawal agreement as well as the ambitions on the future relations with the uk imply that we will have to remain vigilant as regards, first and foremost, the preservation of citizens’ rights, be it during the transition period or under whatever future relationship with the united kingdom. but our vigilance will have to be no less thorough when considering the intended economic partnership where strong safeguards and robust governance will be called for to protect the integrity of the eu’s single market and the competitive position of eu firms. we will therefore count on your cooperation in this respect as well. although we are sincerely sad to see a member state leaving, the european union and the united kingdom share a long history together, and this should truly be a new starting point for the building of a closer relationship in the future, based on mutual respect and equality.
the debate is closed. let us now vote on this point. i would inform you that the explanations of vote will be taken into account tomorrow after the votes. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the uk's departure from the eu is certainly not a happy event, but i respect the will of their people. i think it is important that the united kingdom leaves in an orderly manner, and i do not think it is right that we leave without an agreement, which would lead to more confusion. it is in the interests of the people of the 27 member states of the european union and of the united kingdom that relations between the eu and the united kingdom continue to be good after the withdrawal.
in writing. – i would first express my regret for the departure of our british colleagues, with whom we achieved important results for both european and british citizens, reflected in more than 47 years of common economic development. in my capacity as chair of the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament, i stress the importance to foster dialogue and establish new comprehensive agreements regarding uk’s participation in union programmes in areas of common interest, such as research, defence and space. future collaboration in energy sector will be key for the united kingdom to ensure that exit from the eu doesn’t disrupt its electricity market and does not slow down its de-carbonisation commitment by 2050. future relations should include as well a wide-raging nuclear cooperation agreement on the use of nuclear energy, underpinned by commitments to existing high standards of nuclear safety. i am looking forward to establishing a strong post-brexit collaboration by the end of 2020, as i consider that both the european union and the united kingdom can achieve more together than apart.
the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union is the result of the will expressed by the british people in a referendum and represents a defeat for all those who in recent years have tried to oppose this decision by various means. this exit corresponds to a historic event of enormous political significance. the process of integration - which is not just any integration, it is not neutral integration, it is capitalist integration - is not irreversible, it is not inevitable and it does not have only one direction. much has been said about the motivations behind this outcome. to this he must have contributed various, even contradictory, motives and feelings. but it is safe to say that, even with contradictory motives, this exit results from an unequivocal desire for rupture, which follows a deep dissatisfaction. discontent which is inseparable from the social and economic consequences of the european union's policies. discontent which is inseparable from the feeling that peoples have been deprived of essential instruments for determining their destinies. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. sovereignty is not lost, it is not won. sovereignty is exercised. this is another lesson we can take from this process - something that some do everything to hide.
in writing. the citizens of the united kingdom preferred and voted for brexit because the european union appeared weak in the face of modern challenges. in particular, the control of migration flows to the eu has been completely lost and the community is still unable to take measures to protect its borders and its homogeneity. we believe that the german hegemony of the union and the harmful policy pursued to the detriment of the weaker member states (with greece as a typical case) and to the benefit of the economy of the stronger ones was another key reason for brexit. it is important to ensure that in the future these inherent weaknesses of the union are eliminated before other member states are led to a decision to leave. it is also important to build a close economic, political and commercial partnership between the eu and the united kingdom for the benefit of the citizens of the united kingdom and for the benefit of all european citizens.
in writing. the nationality law passed by the indian parliament in december 2019 has led to violence in the streets. we have to analyse carefully what is happening, ask the authorities for clarification and wait for the decision of the supreme court of india. in 15 days, government representatives and the prime minister of india will come to brussels and that will be an opportunity to ask for clarifications. since its independence in 1947, india has made remarkable progress, establishing itself as a democratic leader in the region and even as a champion of tolerance and diversity. a law that openly discriminates against muslims and challenges their neighboring countries would create a problem with their muslim minority. such policies risk widening the gap between muslims and hindus and making it harder for muslims to enter the country would give them a feeling of second-class citizenship. if confirmed, it would create a motive for radicalization, in a country where there have been no major problems with jihadist terrorism so far. i trust the government will clarify the situation and rectify what needs to be rectified before the violence in the streets gets worse.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like first of all to thank you for this timely debate. as you know, the croatian presidency is particularly sensitive to the situation in the eastern mediterranean, which has a direct impact on the flow of migrants in the whole of south-eastern europe and even further. we are closely monitoring the events on the migration routes and we will continue to do so throughout our presidency. the situation on the greek islands is currently very difficult. in 2019, more than 60 000 migrants arrived in greece by sea, compared to 32 000 recorded in 2018. this represents an increase of 87% – far greater than the 9% percent increase recorded in 2017 and 2018. the number of people present on the aegean islands increased significantly, reaching a peak of over 40 000 migrants. it is the first time since the implementation of the eu-turkey statement that we have reached such a high number. among them, there are several thousand children and unaccompanied minors who were accommodated in facilities which are not adapted to their needs. according to the unhcr, around 40% of the 20 000 migrants in and around the moria camp are under 18 and nearly half of those are under 12 years old. due to the high number of arrivals, the situation on the islands continues to deteriorate. the humanitarian situation requires our close follow-up, and we will continue supporting the efforts of greece to relieve the situation. the greek government is undertaking concrete actions to improve the situation, inter alia by increasing the number of transfers to the mainland. in 2019, more than 35 000 migrants have been transferred but, unfortunately, this has not decreased the pressure on the islands. further actions are needed. the greek government has also announced a new scheme to protect unaccompanied minors reaching the country. i understand that the no child alone plan was designed to protect unaccompanied children from exploitation and criminality and includes commitments to swiftly create new structures to provide long-term accommodation for thousands of children. these new structures will provide housing, education, food and medical support. the plan also foresees the necessary legal services to allow accompanied minors to reunite with relatives in other member states. we also take note of government measures to speed up and streamline asylum procedures and manage flows to greece by improving border surveillance. some of these measures are part of the new asylum legislation which recently entered into force in greece. it will be important to implement the new provisions as fast as possible, including regarding the return procedures. the return rate so far has been a very low, for far too long. returns are instrumental in keeping the numbers down on the islands and managing the flows. the plan of the greek government includes a target of returning 10 000 migrants by the end of 2020. this is ambitious, but it can be done, with the appropriate procedures in place and assistance from iom, frontex and eu member states and through cooperation with third countries. effective returns also require the cooperation of turkey. in this respect, it is vital that both parties apply in good-faith all the provisions and operating procedures agreed as a result of the eu-turkey statement. on a broader note, i would like to use the opportunity of this debate to reiterate that the croatian presidency intends to continue its focus on implementation with regard to the comprehensive approach to migration. we will do our part to ensure coherent action at eu level in terms of more effective control of the eu external borders, increased external actions and address internal aspects. i would like to stress that the humanitarian situation on the greek islands is a cause of great concern. we have to work together to relieve the humanitarian situation. and let me also express here our appreciation for the work of all humanitarian partners. i will let the commission further elaborate on the assistance and advice the eu provides to the greek government on this issue.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, as we are standing here, sitting here, speaking, waiting for our turn, more than 40 000 migrants are stuck in so—called hot spots on the greek islands. most of them are living under conditions that are totally unacceptable. many of them are children. i can only imagine being a mother in these hot spots, with children, being responsible for children, and living in a tent when it’s cold, there’s not enough food, with terrible conditions in many aspects, and being responsible for your own children and not being able to actually take responsibility as a mother. or being a mother in a totally other country knowing that your teenager, your teenage boy, is alone there as unaccompanied minor. these conditions are not acceptable, this we can’t stand having in the european union in 2020. i am probably not the only one who keeps awake at night thinking about these people and the conditions they are living under. but, of course, nobody will be helped by me being awake at night. i’m the commissioner and i am of course responsible for doing things, and you who are here tonight will probably ask me, quite rightly, what is the commission doing and what more can we do? the commission is supporting the greek authorities with finding shelter for unaccompanied minors on the mainland. we will continue to support greece and relocate people from the islands to new centres – new centres that will meet the minimum european standards for humanitarian intervention. we support the greek authorities with our european funds. to mention just a few: eur 50 million from the asylum migration and integration fund that supports up to 2 000 places in shelter for unaccompanied minors on the mainland; eur 4.2 million for the iom to create additional safe zones for unaccompanied minors on all the greek islands; funds for a specific facility for vulnerable applicants called kara tepe on lesbos; specific facilities also exist on kos and leros. we will continue to support greece with our funds. i welcome the appointment that the greek government has done to appoint a national coordinator for unaccompanied minors. i think that the greek government shows the right emphasis on this very difficult situation, and i welcome that the greek government are committed to improve the living conditions for migrants, bringing them to new centres, reforming the asylum system and also starting returning those that are not eligible for international protection. we also think that additional incentives for the employment of doctors in the reception centres and identification centres is important. it is of great urgency to release unaccompanied minors from protective custody and transfer them to safe zones – zones that are suitable for long—term accommodation. is this enough? apparently not. we need to do more. yesterday i met with the newly—appointed greek migration minister, notis mitarakis. we discussed measures as to how we can help greece more and what also the greek government and the greek authorities are planning. yesterday also, the european asylum support office signed an agreement with greece to double the staff in greece from easo. the commission will continue to show solidarity with greece. this includes financial support of over eur 2.2 billion. but the commission alone cannot do everything. we also need the support from the member states. we are lacking a common european asylum and migration system. in lack of that, we need voluntary support from other member states. greece has asked for the relocation of unaccompanied minors and i strongly support this. i support all solidarity efforts between member states, especially when it comes to children. i call on member states to continue to help greece, to continue voluntary relocations and we, the commission, will do the financial support. we will continue to work closely with the greek authorities to help facilitate all voluntary solidarity efforts by other member states. i call on member states to speed up the necessary procedures to reunify children with their families as soon as possible. honourable members, we talk about migration policy and the migration situation in europe. it’s clear that even though we can see an increase of migrants arriving in greece and especially at the greek islands the overall situation is not a crisis. we have seen fewer irregular arrivals in the european union than for many years. we are not in crisis; we do not have a migration crisis in europe. but there are at least 40 000 individuals on the greek islands and they are in crisis. we need to support them and the most effective thing that we must do is to find a common solution that can unite member states and parliament in a new pact for migration and asylum. every week, every month that we are not able to find this new common policy means these people paying too high a price.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european union has not yet taken action to combat illegal immigration. the situation is now dramatic, as desperate people arrive in greece daily from turkey via smugglers. the islands are being destroyed and the mainland is unable to accommodate such a large crowd. the number of unaccompanied minors has exceeded 5,000, and the country's resources are not sufficient today to cover even half of them. the greek government asked for assistance from the member states, and only france, portugal, bulgaria and the czech republic responded positively. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the adoption of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in greece we are experiencing a severe humanitarian crisis and we feel that we are alone. the european family is made up of only five countries? how do we show practical solidarity when, even in the drama of minors, they turn their backs painlessly? the greek government is implementing a new migration policy and, especially for children, the prime minister announced a "no child left behind" initiative, aimed at strictly punishing traffickers and completing 4,000 accommodation structures for unaccompanied minors. but we can't handle it without help. the greek people's distrust of european values is growing, and not without reason. turkey is continuing its illegal policy of exploiting human souls at our expense, and the vast majority of member states are indifferent. this cannot go on. we're going to set up a distress call. the immigration issue is already seriously shaking the foundations of the european union. you know that delays in new action add to the tension. i won't get tired of saying it: we must all, without exception, take responsibility now. greece is not asking for privileges. she's exercising her rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but without justice, we risk the consequences of mistakes and omissions in the years ahead. we have achieved so much. we don't deserve to fail.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the commissioner was very robust in stating how unacceptable these conditions are, because they exist within the european union. we have many refugee hotspots around the world, but this is the problem: they exist within the european union, and they are afflicting – as we heard from the last speaker – greece in particular. she and the commissioner explained what the elephant in the room was: member state coordination is lacking. we are asking today for the commission to act: this, for my group, is really the most important thing. i’ve been to the islands many times – other speakers will speak of this – and we need action, and the commissioner prefaced this in the details that she gave. so, for my group, that is not to talk again about all the chronic and severe problems of under—staffing in the hotspots – the risks for children under dublin, and so on – but to say that we need to act on long—term reception capacities on the mainland in the overcrowded hotspots, to deploy additional expert staff, and to provide crucial legal information to end the regime of geographical restrictions. so we ask the commission to do everything it can, but of course the member states must do more: this is really the elephant at the room. if we don’t have this combined comprehensive approach, we will continue to have these – as the commissioner said – unacceptable conditions within the european union. commissioner, this is my last speech after 20 years and six months (remember the six months!), and for much of that time i have spoken about these issues: humanitarian issues and issues of asylum. i’ve been to the greek islands many times, and i know that these issues affect the european union disproportionately for what they are, because they define the values of the european union. so i really urge colleagues to do everything they can to ensure that we solve this problem, because it affects the very values of the european union: we send a message to the world about what kind of european union we are. i wish you all the best of luck to deal with this issue as comprehensively as possible in the coming months.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, thank you very much for being here. you have been in office for only a short time, and from what you have told us, you know the basic elements of these centres that have become hell. but it's not 2020 when moria, or whatever is on samos or chios, is hell. it's been like this since 2015, since 2016, and we're still the same or worse. moria is a factory of traumatic stress, of post-traumatic stress, of moral suffering. and we can't allow that. you talk about us helping to have new centers, when will they be? you're talking about doubling the staff of easo. i've been to the island of lesbos twice. i've never been able to see anyone from easo. we don't know how much is double zero. understand, our group is a responsible group. we want to help bring about a new pact on migration and asylum. we're willing to compromise. but if you don't get those poor people off the greek islands, if you don't help greece, it's not going to get through. because no one's gonna believe that we're serious. and those children and those women and those old people can't wait, can't wait any longer. so, when are we going to have these new reception centers, commissioner?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, listening to the statements made by some members, including some greeks, one might think that they are here representing the citizens of pakistan, syria, afghanistan and other third countries who are in greece illegally. but because the greek solution and kyriakos velopoulos are fighting every day against this colonization of greece, i want to speak about the situation of the greeks on the greek islands, which nobody talks about. the european union ignores that the greeks are becoming a minority in greece, and that the locals, not only on the islands but throughout the country, stand helplessly by and watch their property, their families and the places where they grew up being destroyed and threatened by illegal immigration. the european union will do something about this crisis, or will it always thank greece for standing in solidarity with its own invaders? since we have come to the point of discussing the reunification of illegal immigrant families, i want to say one more thing: in recent years, because of the economic crisis, almost half a million young greeks of my generation, who had finished some university, like me, but could not find a job in greece, left my country and their families. these individuals now meet their parents and relatives for only a few days a year. the european union must therefore deal with this family reunification, because anything else is beyond the tolerance of the greeks. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure) ))
answer to a question with a blue card. i am speaking first of all on behalf of my political group. i happen to be from one of these islands we're talking about today. i grew up on chios and i've seen all the development of the island over the years, and that's why i speak a little more strongly. this is a tragic situation and it must change now. we must immediately repatriate all these illegal immigrants.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, what you heard before is not greece. it's a right-wing concept. we know that a picture is worth a thousand words. commissioner, this is the situation in moria today. two days ago our little ladder went there, and i must tell you that in moria, there are people and garbage and children all mixed up. we were in moria three months ago. out of 5,000, we found 17,000 people. yesterday we found 20,000 people. i'll give you some clues to help: 37% are men, 23% are women and 34% are children. this is about children. of those, 1,700 are unaccompanied. i have to tell you, 63% of the c.i.t. is families. i ask a question in lieu: we are talking about refugees and immigrants. 70% of moriah is afghan. in 2019, 7,500 bombs were dropped on afghanistan. so are these refugees or immigrants? these kids, what are we gonna do with them? will we use them as refugees or as migrants? they're refugees from the war. and one last thing: we have read in the international press today that the greek government is ordering floating dams. who pays for these dams? it is the first time they have been used against humans and, of course, against civilians. it's for war operations. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. this government abolished the ministry of migration policy and re-established it after six months. we reported that here. so i'll give you some clues: in 2016 the syriza government managed 176,906 people. the current government, in 2019, managed only 60,000 people. i think there is a question for both the greek government and the european union in dealing with the problem. we also disagree with closed prison-like centres.
madam president, it is presumptuous to oppose the majority of the greek people by having members of this house from greece. over 65% of greeks are against illegal immigration. i've been here six months and i've never heard you speak for the rights of the greeks. i hear you guys talking all the time about illegal immigrants and their rights. don't the greeks have rights? you know they can't move to their homeland, their homes, their properties? you know they're being hunted by illegal immigrants and they're being terrorized? are you aware that the control of illegal immigration in greece is not the greek government but the ngos? in fact, two months ago, we got to the point where they illegally banned the minister of national defence from entering a greek camp, which is being used as a hotspot, to monitor the situation. so, what are we talking about? for the rights of illegal immigrants? the situation is tragic. they steal, they rape, they kill. and you humanists here only talk about pakistanis, only about afghans and about anyone else. so speak for the greeks and give the greeks, who live in the land of their ancestors, their rights, which they have lost. instead, you are patting turkey on the back. turkey is the favorite child. you really let them do whatever they want. they are filling my country and all of europe with unstoppable flows of illegal immigrants. this flag, the turkish flag, which is not allowed to do what it does, a bloody flag, the only thing it deserves is this; nothing else. the turks are out, and the process ends with them. to finish off all of them.
(ppe). – madam president, ‘united we stand, divided we fall’ – a famous phrase, and today in this chamber we stood united in the face of a threat to our unity: brexit. and today in this chamber we stood united in commemorating the international day for the victims of the holocaust, and in a united voice, we said: we remember. but when it comes to the migration issue, we are clearly not united. when it comes to dealing with president erdoğan’s blackmail, using the migration issue, we are not united. at this moment, there are 5 301 unaccompanied minors in greece, and the greek government has asked for european member states to accommodate 2 500 of them, and only three states have replied. i ask you, dear colleagues, from all member states and all political parties: have we become so entrenched in our national interest and so thick-skinned that we do not care about children? frankly, i’m no longer worried about europe’s unity if we can’t find a solution for 5 000 children; i’m worried about our dignity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mrs vălean, thank you very much for the presentation. i hope we have a very good cooperation in the coming years. in the debate on the future of transport, we must set three priorities which are inextricably linked to each other: first, clean transport for the climate and for human health. we know that transport is responsible for 27% of greenhouse gases, while air pollution, particularly in urban areas, is causing millions of premature deaths. secondly, there is no european strategy that does not aim at connecting all the member states, but especially the islands and remote regions. the situation is dramatic. the cost to these populations is already enormous. all they want is equal conditions and opportunities with other europeans. thirdly, a socially just transition. if we don't create countermeasures and provision for the weakest, we will lose acceptance in society. transport must not become a luxury for the privileged. the key to success is investment in new technologies, innovation and research. we mustn't waste any more time. we must move from words to deeds.
mr. president, on february 18th, workers in greece are striking against the government's bill, which further dismantles social security with the consequence that the majority of today's workers will receive less than 450 euros in pension. the cuts of the previous syriza government are being stored and the increased pension thresholds and the guaranteed national poverty pension of €384 are being maintained. it opens the way for the reserves to be gambled away in high-risk investment products. with privatization, privatization and cuts there is a risk that a lifetime's work will be lost. but undermining social security is your strategic choice. your social rights reports are a big lie. similar anti-working class projects are being promoted in france, belgium and elsewhere and workers are responding with militancy. with your eyes on the next recession coming you're making it easier for employers to cut insurance premiums, you're opening up a market of billions in insurance monopolies' profits and handing them hot money. with their struggle, workers and self-employed will overturn the plans of the european union and governments, demanding social security under the responsibility of the state and free health and welfare services.
head of the task force for relations with the united kingdom. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, at your last session in brussels and ursula von der leyen referred to this moving session you said goodbye to all your british colleagues leaving parliament because of brexit. at the beginning of this part-session, i should like to welcome the new members who have joined you and also to express to them our readiness and that of the commission to assist them in their mandate. i would like to begin by thanking you for your confidence, which touches me and encourages an exceptional team that i have the honour to lead, namely the european commission, which is also your negotiating team. i would also like to thank you for the content of your resolution, which sets out principles, values and positions. your negotiator needs and will need throughout the coming months this determination, this resolution, to help him in this negotiation, which will be difficult. earlier, mairead mcguinness said, "the clock is ticking". i just want to remind you, on the subject of time, that the transitional period, which is set out in the withdrawal treaty, is indeed a limited period, which can be extended by common agreement for one or two years. if it is not extended, as we understand it, this means that the united kingdom will leave the single market and the customs union on 31 december this year. it is a choice, and that choice of time is set by the british prime minister, not by us. and everyone must understand that this time constraint, before the united kingdom leaves the single market and the customs union, this time constraint chosen by the british prime minister has consequences. of course, each one must take responsibility for his own actions. we are not the ones who put this time constraint on the table. but this constraint also means one thing, because we are not in a trade negotiation - when we negotiate with canada or japan, we are trying to get closer, to make convergence. some people think that this convergence is not enough, but we are getting there. if we do not reach an agreement with these countries, we will take more time. we give more time to negotiation: one year, two years... for canada, it took seven years. and until we reach an agreement, that's the status quo, for both sides. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that in the present situation, this will not be the status quo. if we do not reach agreement on trade by 31 december, it will not be the status quo, because on that day, as the british prime minister has chosen, and no later than that day, 31 december next, the united kingdom will leave the single market and the customs union and will go back, if i may say so, to the wto. this means that, apart from the controls we will be carrying out anyway, because of brexit, on all products coming from the united kingdom (as we are carrying out these controls on all products coming from third countries and entering the single market, to protect consumers and businesses), apart from these controls, which are necessary anyway, there will be in this particular case, if there is a failure, if there is no agreement, there will be quotas and customs duties on all british products. that is the consequence if we do not reach an agreement within the time limit chosen by the british prime minister. ladies and gentlemen, all your groups have called for a strong relationship, one that lives up to our common history. and we did not forget, i did not forget, that common history and that solidarity of the united kingdom, especially in the darkest hours of the last century. a logical relationship, of course, philippe lamberts said, when you look at geography. a necessary relationship, when we measure economic interests, but also climate issues or security issues. a lucid and demanding relationship, when you listen to - what i'm doing very carefully - some british speeches at the moment about the use that would be made - i'm talking to the conditional, i don't want to make intentional lawsuits - of the new regulatory divergence capacity that the uk wanted to get with brexit. this strong, ambitious, clear-sighted and demanding relationship is the european commission's spirit, as our president ursula von der leyen said a moment ago, and it is what is contained in the proposal for a mandate that is on your table and which is being discussed in the council for approval, i hope, on 25 february. a negotiation, ladies and gentlemen, with a partner - i am using the words of barry andrews earlier - a partner who must understand clearly - and i say this calmly but firmly - that the opening of our markets, access to data - i answer your question, madam in't veld - the equivalence for financial services - mentioned by danuta hübner - i repeat: the opening of our markets, access to data, equivalence - i say the equivalence for financial services - will be proportionate to the commitments we make together to respect a true level playing field. regulatory coherence in certain areas, the protection of citizens and, let me add, let us not be short-sighted, the financial stability of our continent and the euro area. i would like to answer a few specific points by telegram. first, geert bourgeois has just mentioned the question of cooperation, particularly in the north sea, on energy. i shall be taking stock of this with vice-president timmermans today. we naturally want to cooperate with the united kingdom in this north sea region on energy matters. this cooperation is also provided for in our draft mandate. but brexit has mechanical and logical consequences. the british are no longer in the european union, so the framework for cooperation must be revised, logically. the united kingdom no longer participates in the european institutions because it wanted to, it is its choice, and so we must find, mr bourgeois, another way of cooperating with them and we will look for it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also our mandate to open several negotiating tables on the subjects of internal security, cooperation on extradition, europol, eurojust, anti-money laundering, prüm, the pnr... all these issues require an agreement with the british in the common interest, for the protection of the security of the citizens. but also, and mr alexandrov was just mentioning it, external security. i would like to say on the subject of defence and foreign policy that brexit should not normally have any consequences for the bilateral cooperation that several of your countries have with the united kingdom - i am talking about cooperation between one or another country of the union and the united kingdom - and therefore should not have any consequences for what we do together in nato either. what is at stake in this negotiation is cooperation between the european union, including the new initiatives we are taking in the field of defence, and the united kingdom, if it so wishes. so we made a proposal and we confirmed this proposal to open a negotiating table on these issues. the political declaration makes clear reference to external security and defence. we need texts on these subjects to be incorporated into law and into the legal texts of administrative or political cooperation - i am thinking of the defence agency, i am thinking of the fight against cyberattacks, i am thinking of cooperation between intelligence services, i am also thinking of the possibility for the british to take part, if they wish, in external operations of the union, military or civil-military, and i am obviously thinking of political cooperation with a very important country which remains a member of the united nations security council. all this must be translated into texts and we are ready to discuss it, but it will take two of us to do so. so we are open and we remain open to this negotiation to improve the joint management of the security and stability issues of the continent. we are also prepared to discuss everything else. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we must of course continue cooperation in the academic field, cooperation in research, the participation of the british, if they wish, in european programmes. and we will have a negotiating table, as from march, on all european programmes - i mean all programmes, including erasmus - but it will be with a different legal and financial framework than today. danuta hübner has just mentioned the issue of financial services and the relationship we need to have with the united kingdom. beyond what is written in the draft mandate and what we usually do in agreements with third countries, there will be no actual negotiations on financial services. on the other hand, we must find a relationship with the united kingdom, given the importance of london and the city, which i know well. so we're going to use danuta hübner referred to it the equations toolbox. as we will do with data, we will use the adequacy decision toolbox. we do not negotiate on these issues with the uk, we check for consistency and, where we think it is possible, we give equivalents on this or that sector of the financial industry. that's what we've done with canada, that's what we're doing with the united states, that's what we're doing with japan, and it's working. so i don't see why it wouldn't work with the uk. but i would like to take this opportunity to make it clear to some uk officials that there must be no illusions on this issue: there will be no general and comprehensive, or permanent, equivalence on financial services. there will also be no financial equivalence co-management with the united kingdom. we will retain control of these tools and will retain autonomy of decision. i would also like to point out that in this period we have additional reasons to continue to act, and this is the subject of the work of our vice-president valdis dombrovskis for the capital markets union and the continuation and consolidation of the banking union. finally, the fishing. mr bellamy, but also mr millán mon, mr peeters, mrs schaldemose, mrs aguilera, amongst others, raised this issue which i know well enough to have had the honour of being my own country's minister for fisheries for a few years. i simply want to say that reciprocal access to territorial waters and markets will be an integral part of the trade agreement, because it is trade. this will therefore be an integral part of the trade agreement and the level playing field in this negotiation. ladies and gentlemen, we have always respected, even if we have regretted it, the united kingdom's choice to leave the european union. the prime minister, boris johnson, whom we respect, said that by leaving the european union, the united kingdom was not leaving europe. we welcome this resolution. the question that is being asked, and to which we have no answer at the moment, is this: it is quite simple, but it is quite serious: the united kingdom is leaving the european union, the single market and the customs union, but does it also want to leave or move away from our european economic, social and regulatory model? a model he knows well, since we have been building it with him for 47 years. that is the question we are waiting to hear. how far does the uk want to move away from our social, economic and regulatory model? and i would just like to say that it is the united kingdom, ladies and gentlemen, i say this very clearly and calmly, that will set the level of ambition for our future relationship in these areas, it is the united kingdom that will choose the level of regulatory coherence, that will therefore determine ambition, or that will choose the level of regulatory competition. and i recommend that the answer to that question that we are asking be thoughtfully considered in the limited time that we have before us. i shall end with three telegraphic remarks. ladies and gentlemen, i have always spoken the truth to you and i will continue to do so. brexit cannot be business as usual. there are changes in all areas. some changes may be more or less significant or temporary, others are permanent. brexit means that the uk financial services sector is losing its financial passport. there is no mutual recognition. the consequence of brexit is that, in any event, ladies and gentlemen, we will impose controls on all products entering the single market on 1 january, as we do for all other third countries in the world. we owe this protection to consumers, to national and european budgets, and we also owe it to businesses. so it's not gonna be business as usual. but we'll try to limit the consequences by finding a good deal. secondly, we must be concerned about enforcing and respecting the withdrawal agreement ourselves. it's not a trifle. the withdrawal agreement is 600 pages long, it is now ratified by you and the house of commons, it must be implemented. i will report publicly to you and to the council on a regular basis on the state of preparedness throughout this year, in particular on the implementation of the protocol in ireland, which guarantees an ever fragile peace. finally, this negotiation will be difficult, very difficult, ladies and gentlemen. i therefore recommend that we be prepared for all scenarios, including the possibility that we do not reach a basic agreement by 31 december. we remain prepared to conduct this negotiation with respect, as i have always done, and very calmly, without any aggression. i will never lose sight, beyond the difficulties of daily negotiation, of the need to find, on your behalf, an ambitious agreement with a large friendly, neighbouring and allied country, and i will always continue, with total determination, to defend the interests of the european union, its citizens, its businesses, to defend the integrity of the internal and single market, which will not be, has never been and will never be negotiable. finally, of course, madam president, parliament can rest assured that the european commission, as your negotiator, will always be ready to work with you, to listen to you, to report to you. i will therefore make the same offer, as i said throughout these three years before brexit and as i said the other day - this was a group chaired by guy verhofstadt, in the presence of david mcallister and the coordination group and in the presence of all the group chairmen - i will continue to be totally available to work with the european parliament, in confidence with you.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i also join mr barnier in greeting the new members of the european parliament and i’m looking forward to our discussions here. with your vote on the resolution on the proposed mandate for negotiations for a new partnership with the uk, you will provide a timely and useful input into the finalisation of this mandate. we should aim to build a relationship that is comprehensive, based on high standards and that guarantees a level playing field. the very comprehensive nature of the proposed mandate and likely long negotiations that may ensue in certain sectors will probably call for further debates in the coming months and years. this new phase should not make us forget about the withdrawal agreement, which has just been concluded, and the need to remain vigilant as regards its implementation, first and foremost with respect to the preservation of citizens’ rights, be it during the transition period or under whatever future relationship with the united kingdom. but our vigilance will have to be no less thorough when considering the intended economic partnership, where strong safeguards and robust governance will be called for to protect the integrity of the eu single market and the competitive position of eu firms. we will therefore count on your cooperation in this respect as well.
in writing. after brexit on 31 january 2020, it is important to build a strong new eu partnership with the united kingdom, for the benefit of the citizens of the united kingdom and for the benefit of all european citizens. the united kingdom will no longer have the privileges of a member state and access to community funding. we believe that the final agreement between the eu and the uk should be aimed primarily at free trade, but 'always' based on the principles of free competition. we also consider the question of the free movement of students, tourists and workers to be important, a right which must be guaranteed. the fight against terrorism and security should also be areas of close cooperation. finally, we call for the union to safeguard the interests of european businesses and citizens, to the extent that they are affected by brexit.
madam president, we support the free trade agreement between the european union and vietnam because it is a very good agreement which has economic benefits for all: by gradually abolishing almost all customs duties, by lifting tariff quotas, by opening markets to european union service providers and by giving access to public procurement tenders. the agreement benefits many member states, including my own country, greece, where it will help exports of pharmaceuticals and agricultural products by ensuring the protection of geographical indications of important greek products such as feta and ouzo. the agreement will also safeguard labour rights, strengthen democracy and respect for human rights and contribute to the fight against climate change. so in the age of trade wars, it has a symbolic value. it demonstrates that the european union insists on a multilateral free trade system based on fair rules, in line with the principles and values of a united europe. i urge you to vote in favour of it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would say the following to mr borrell. mr borrell, you stated that the united states middle east peace plan departs from internationally agreed parameters. you also used rather pointed language originally when you said that part of this plan, if implemented, could not pass unchallenged. naturally this evoked a reaction from our israeli friends, who warned that this type of – what they called – ‘threatening’ language could lead to the eu’s role in the peace process being minimised. meanwhile, the palestinian leadership has angrily dismissed president trump’s plan as a conspiracy. i think it’s frankly unreasonable to expect that either side would greet this proposal with any real enthusiasm, but i would like to choose to view the glass as half full and not half empty. so this plan could perhaps serve as a basis for resuming talks in earnest with the understanding that there are, in fact, painful concessions to be made on both sides. this is your moment to shine, mr borrell. europe could perhaps assume a much more prominent role, an active role, as an honest broker of just and lasting peace. it could encourage both sides to consider the plan as a starting point for reopening meaningful goodwill negotiations.
mr president, we condemn the unacceptable plan of the united states for palestine, which perpetuates and shields the israeli occupation. the agreement being promoted is part of the us imperialist plans for the wider region. it provides for the concession of jerusalem to israel, the annexation of the jordan valley and the preservation of settlements. the european union and its governments and the greek governments of new democracy and syriza have very heavy responsibilities. they have kept the distance between the aggressor and the victim equal; they have constantly expanded and upgraded political, economic and military cooperation with the state of israel. the position of mr borrell, who finds the trump proposal specific and helpful, is essentially contrary to the interests of the palestinian people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. such positions reveal the reasons why the decisions of parliaments which have recognized the independent palestinian state are not being implemented. we support the just struggle of the palestinian people to end the israeli occupation and for an independent palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital.
mr president, in the last decade anti-semitism has raised its ugly head again in europe. sadly, though this is factually substantiated, according to a 2019 eurobarometer survey there’s a striking discrepancy in the perception of anti-semitism. almost 90% of jews feel that anti-semitism is on the rise, but only 36% of european citizens agree. europe cannot allow the poison of anti-semitism to spread. it needs to support, it needs to protect its jews and it needs to effectively combat anti-semitic perpetrators, and there is no question that hezbollah, iran’s most deadly proxy, is an indoctrinated, violent anti-semitic group which poses serious threats to jews in europe and not just in europe. yet the european union refuses to follow in the footsteps of some of its most adored allies like the united states, like the united kingdom, like canada, and to end this false distinction between the political wing and the military wing of hezbollah – a distinction which, by the way, hezbollah calls a joke and dismisses. this hypocrisy must end now. the eu must place hezbollah in its entirety on the eu terrorist list if it is going to be credible and, more importantly, effective in combating anti-semitism and the atrocious acts it leads to.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, it is unfair to hear opinions that the european parliament or meps do not love poland. it's not fair. but we cannot allow opportunistic policies in member states to define and reformulate and change the road map of the fundamental rights and principles of the european union. the current government policy in poland contradicts and conflicts with many of these principles: in matters of the rule of law, separation of powers, freedom of expression, minority rights, even women's right to abortion. and in poland, as far as we know, there is a government, there is no regime. in a democracy, governments change; our fundamental principles do not. they improve, they renew, but they don't reverse. that is our position and i ask you very much to listen to all the political groups and not to the extreme right. the epp, renew, the socialists, the greens and the left. we're not all wrong.
the european union is called upon to implement the green deal, a highly ambitious policy, in the coming years. the success of this policy will be judged by our ability as legislators to ensure the equitable transition of our societies to a green economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has so far used this sum to implement landmark policies such as the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, and now some people want to use the same amount to implement the most ambitious policy of recent years. that's not possible. new policies require new funding. i think that parliament's proposal for 1.3% is very reasonable. it ensures the implementation of policies that justify citizens' visions of the europe of the future without cutting the funding needed to implement rural policy and cohesion policy, and can simultaneously with the increased funding meet all these needs. it is therefore irresponsible for national governments to make major announcements without accompanying them with bold initiatives and funding. we are waiting for parliament's proposal and it must be accepted.
the european union is deeply concerned about a new recession and crisis. in this context, you propose as a solution 'among other things' the digitisation of the economy. but in the context of the capitalist economy, these innovative applications are subject to intense competition between european, chinese and american tech giants, for the lead in the race for profitability - and with billions of euros in subsidies. instead of relieving workers and improving working conditions, innovative applications will put thousands of workers out of work, according to your own forecasts. wages will be slashed and hours, contracts and insurance rights will be dismantled. this insoluble contradiction is the very system of exploitation which you so zealously defend and which the european union and its governments, and in greece both new democracy today and syriza before, serve. only workers' power and a centrally planned economy, using scientific and technological progress, will save the people from their misery; this is the future of humanity.
madam president, commissioner, if your strategy for gender equality is to be successful, you must first of all ensure that the member states of the european union are committed to a new framework, with guidelines and mandatory specific measures for gender equality. i propose binding legislation and, in particular, the ratification and full implementation of the istanbul convention by all member states to combat violence against women. binding measures on pay transparency are needed to combat the gender pay gap. the obstacles to the adoption of the relevant directive on the equal representation of women in management positions, which has been frozen in the council since 2013, must be removed. take preventive measures and introduce effective, transparent and confidential reporting procedures and strong deterrent new sanctions against perpetrators to prevent and combat harassment at the workplace. finally, you should include a separate chapter on women's health in your strategy to reduce gender inequalities in health.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it is true that border policy is a european policy and cannot be the responsibility of a member state such as croatia. it is also true that asylum and migration policy needs a european solution. i can even understand that, given the disaster in the greek hotspots, croatia wants to prevent itself from becoming an eu hotspot country. but all this does not give the croatian border police the right to beat, torture, dog them, threaten them with guns, throw them into the river towards bosnia, steal their belongings, money, cell phones, even food, leave them with open wounds in the forest and treat people who offer help. unresolved european issues do not justify such sadism towards refugees. the european union is also committed to the protection of children and to the protection of the rights of all persons. human rights must be respected everywhere, and please also at the borders.
mr president, the government of the new democracy in greece, taking the baton from syriza in the european union's policy of repression, is building, by means of a legislative act, prisons on the greek islands, where, on the basis of the german proposal for dublin, the main volume of asylum seekers will continue to be held. the majority of them will be deported, a few will be granted asylum and even fewer will eventually go to countries of the european union. what is really being prepared is shown by the return policy announced by the greek government, that is, a factory of deportations to return refugees back to the hell of the imperialist war, which is being fomented by the european union, the usa, nato and governments with enormous responsibilities. the signature by greece of the eu-turkey agreement and the dublin regulation should be annulled. the policy of murderous floating barrier-traps, the involvement and funding of ngos and the toleration of the activities of far-right groups, which are fuelling tensions on the islands, in an already very difficult situation for islanders and refugees, should be condemned. close the hotspots and set up reception centres inland to transfer to the countries of actual destination.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. yes, i'm surprised already. there is a lot of evidence that there are mass pushbacks, illegal pushbacks at the croatian border, and that almost all of the migrants who are affected have been deported at least three or four times, without being able to apply for asylum. you know that? have you ever heard of it? and have you heard that many, many refugees complain, for example, that they have been subjected to the worst kind of violence? are you still ignoring that, or are you willing to accept the reality of what it is?
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from croatia. i just want to tell you that croatia, unfortunately, has real painful memories. after the serbian aggression against the republic of croatia, we had thousands of migrants, so, do not doubt the croatian intentions and do not talk about something you do not understand and do not know. i live in croatia and croatia does everything to ensure that the handling of croatian borders is carried out in full compliance with croatian and european laws and international standards and rules. croatia has no wire and no barricades, unlike other countries.
mr president, commissioner dalli, let me see, if i am not mistaken and i have heard you correctly, you said that we are doing everything in our power. no, it's not true. we don't do everything we can to help. we know that the dublin regulation is not working, and yet the council is blocking it. we do not have a common policy on asylum and legal migration, which is the way to stop this whole catastrophe. we don't do everything we can to help. if i'm not mistaken, you say we've accomplished a lot already. we've got moria to be hell, samos, kios to be hell. in libya - where you say we are putting aid in to alleviate suffering - we are not going to be able to alleviate suffering unless we do the most important thing, which is in our hands, to declare libya a country that is not safe. that's in our hands. when are we going to use everything we have, commissioner dalli? fundamental rights are not words. we're treading on carpet and you're talking about a fundamental rights official who's going to have 40 other officials. when there's misery there's no time for these things, mrs. dalli.
blue-card question. – mr marquardt, i was a refugee myself during the war in the former yugoslavia and i worked in a solicitor’s office with thousands of refugees from the former yugoslavia. there’s only one way to establish whether the police are doing right or wrong. what you are saying is a lie. it’s a blatant lie. don’t abuse real asylum seekers by spreading these lies here, please, because you are going against real asylum seekers and real refugees, and you are using these human tragedies in this place by blaming croatia for something that it is not doing. one million one hundred thousand croats live in bosnia and herzegovina. they are bosnian serbs and croats, who were given croatian passports during the war, and we are protecting them as well.
mr president, i address the greek people who are watching us on their televisions, computers and mobile phones. i address the people of samos, mytilene, diabata and the rest of greece, who have seen their land become a vast caliphate. it is now a given that the european union serves the interests of people like soros, who through the mko and the muslims are aiming to eliminate christianity and fill europe with mosques. we must honor the values and traditions we inherited from our ancestors. it is a shame that the european union is using european taxpayers' money to provide free accommodation and food for illegal immigrants, when there are greeks who, because of the economic crisis, have to sleep in their cars. we, the greek solution, demand a christian european union which has at its core the sacred institution of the family and not a multicultural europe. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, first of all, some groups have missed the point of the debate. today we are talking about european borders and we must emphasize the value of the refugee and the value of the migrant. it's other concepts. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. i can understand that. and, indeed, by legitimate state violence: the violence of the police, the border guards, state repression. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. there are hundreds of reported cases of violent rejection every day. we have witnesses, we are eyewitnesses ourselves; i am not going to go into the details of the matter. and when we - socialists, greens, left-wing meps, meps - show the images of people being devoured by police dogs, the two croatian ministers say it is fake news. and i hear it here. that is an insult to the members of parliament. what you're doing is an insult to political groups. listen to this! you're not listening to me! it's far-right rhetoric. i know. all you have left is the id and the far right. i would also like to say that in greece we are putting in place floating dams. on the greek-turkish border, hundreds are dying from drowning and cold. and i want to ask one last question: will you finally tell us your proposal? i am not talking about a debate; i am talking about what you propose.
madam president, it was world safer internet day yesterday and as a psychiatrist i am concerned, madam commissioner. in greece alone, one in five children has been the victim of online harassment, 61% have been exposed to inappropriate content and children are exposed to hate speech, psychological attacks, blackmail and financial fraud. half the children report that this has damaged them psychologically and led to social isolation. a lot of parents leave their kids with their cell phones in their hands. children's addiction makes them vulnerable, aggressive and isolating. the internet is not a toy. we need modern education that will shield children from these dangers. we need to force the software providers and companies to provide us with free or at least very cheap child protection software. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'parental leave' to cover the period of time during which children are allowed to leave the home. we need to communicate the time and manner of healthy internet use. it is a double-edged sword which we must exploit and at the same time protect against its negative and dangerous consequences.
madam president, as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri), i fully support dg sante taking the lead in this farm to fork strategy. hippocrates said, ‘let food be your medicine, and medicine be your food’, and here the green deal is equally wise in demanding a new cap that is a climate-adaptation and a climate-mitigation strategy: a cap that leaves no one behind and that ensures a just transition. the people of europe deserve safe, affordable, high—quality, nutritious and sustainably-produced food, and the farmers and fishermen and women that are managing this transition deserve quality jobs in vibrant, modern rural areas. the time has come to align the cap with the union’s ambitions. we must have a smart, fair, sustainable cap, with a proper budget, that would strongly support our farmers to achieve the environmental, climate, biodiversity and human well—being objectives of the union. the green deal and hippocrates also share a fundamental value: do no harm. let’s have a new cap.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, we are in a state of emergency and we owe it to the victims to devise ambitious policies and to remind at every opportunity that for the european parliament road safety is a top priority. in europe today, we have 500 deaths a week, even though our roads are the safest in the world. this is the equivalent of two air accidents a week in europe or the disappearance of a small town of 26,000 inhabitants a year. but unfortunately, the victims on the motorways do not trigger the reflexes of either the media or our society and politicians. this situation must be reversed. even if we accept that human error will never disappear, we envision a reduction in accidents and 'mostly' zero loss of life. the key is to move from words to action. we have heard from the other political groups that they too want ambitious policies, but i wonder: if their intentions are sincere, why have they not supported our request for a resolution on road safety? it would be a great opportunity for the new parliament to take a stand on such an important issue and to bring it up to date, especially in view of the third world ministerial conference in stockholm. the european parliament must be a leader in road safety in practice and i invite you, as a first step, to reconsider your attitude and support specific proposals. for example, to reiterate our commitment to the european target of halving the number of deaths and serious injuries by 2020 to 2030 and to zero deaths by 2050. to create european programmes in the next financial framework, aimed at promoting policies that have proven to have positive effects, and specific programmes aimed at reducing the large disparities between member states in road safety performance, i.e. where there is a lot of room for improvement. to take advantage of the latest innovations in the automotive industry in safety systems in new and old vehicles wherever possible. to set targets for reducing the deaths of vulnerable network users in the context of urban mobility. to establish a regulatory framework for vehicles with automated driving systems. strengthen enforcement of road traffic rules both at national and cross-border level. commissioner vălean has already expressed twice in the transport committee - and again today here in parliament - her commitment to work actively for safer roads in europe and i thank her from the bottom of my heart for that. we in parliament must therefore clarify our priorities and work with the commission and the member states to lay the foundations for a successful strategy and an ambitious legislative framework in the coming years, which will enable us to achieve the target of halving deaths and serious injuries by 2030.
madam president! thank you for your words. at its last meeting, the european council focused on the percentage only and showed the different positions of net wage-earners, net recipients. but the budget is much higher. the budget is thus, on the one hand, a response to the coronavirus and the challenges that the virus will cause, and on the other hand, europe is putting a lot of pressure on european borders. i don't know if the council's assessment is realistic now, to reduce by almost 40 per cent the number of people defending europe's borders. the pressure will continue. the military threat is a similar thing in a way: we feel what is happening to us on the turkish border. we've forgotten about self-sufficiency when it comes to farming. what are we going to do to stop people from one part of europe moving from poorer parts to other parts? and all of this has to be taken into account when the budget is drawn up, and i certainly will not support a budget as it is now.
madam president, commissioner, i think that prolonging a decision is a disgrace. i do not understand citizens how three people, four people, even 27 heads of state can be more than representatives of the citizens, the european parliament, representatives of the citizens, ultimately through the commissioners. commissioner, madam president, i am sorry that we do not have the council here today when we are discussing what they decided in the 20th and what they want to do. i am the vice-president of the internal market commission; we cannot accept a 31% cut in the internal market. it cannot be done in the field of digitisation, smes, research, horizon, the common agricultural policy. what budget are we talking about here? i think we have to, as has been said here, act, because we cannot wait for the 27 states to decide now, when we have two more crises: the migration crisis and the coronavirus crisis. thank you and i hope, commissioner, that you will convey this message.
vice—president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to reassure ms grapini that i will definitely inform the president and the college of commissioners about the debate, which i think was marked by two very important elements, underlined in almost all interventions in this house. the first was a sense of urgency, and here i could not agree with you more. we need to get the budget as soon as possible; in my introductory remarks i already described to you the dire consequences of acting late. therefore, we have also called on the president of the european council to work closely with the parliament and the commission to hold the summit as soon as possible – this time hopefully with a positive outcome. second, i think a very important element, which i felt in all interventions, was the sense of ambition, that we simply want a europe that strives for more, despite the fact that our british friends are leaving us. it was underlined in the interventions by madame garcía pérez that we need a budget of a sufficient overall size, and that – as mr fernandes and mr lins underlined – we need a budget which would enable us to respond to the challenges ahead because, as ms mcguinness has said, if we don’t have proper funding, how are we going to convince our farmers that we need to invest more in a farm—to—fork strategy? how are we going to create that huge investment fund which we want to use to modernise europe, to invest in the green deal project and to prepare the industry for this important twin transition – digital and green – that we are going through? we also need to be much better prepared for contingencies. i think it was underlined in the interventions by ms marques and mr cioloş that we need to have some flexibility in the budget to respond adequately to all the challenges and unexpected emergencies we have to face. almost all of you referred to the situation at the turkish—greek borders and to the coronavirus. these are exactly the situations where european citizens expect us to act and act fast. i think that on both occasions we did our utmost and my dear colleague ylva johansson is here to debrief you on the details of the visit of the three presidents to the greek borders and on all the contingency planning we are doing in the commission. i think that what is very important right now is to focus on the deal – to focus on the agreement – because i believe none of us want to disappoint our young generation and tell them that next year there is simply no erasmus. nobody wants to disappoint the citizens who came out to vote in such large numbers and who sent us a clear message to prepare europe for the important green deal transition because, put simply, we need to lead by example and we are in the best position to do so. so all these are tasks which we have to deal with. we therefore hope that, together with you, in the spirit of the close cooperation we have had, we will be able to push for an ambitious budget – a budget which responds to the expectations of our citizens. we agree with you that there is no time to lose. so thank you very much for your support. let’s cooperate very closely on this until we get the ambitious budget that europe needs.
in writing. we, the meps of fidesz-kdnp, also want an ambitious budget for europe, with 1.3% of eu gni in the seven-year financial framework! in the resolution adopted by parliament we made it clear that the framework for traditional eu policies, the common agricultural policy and regional development policy, must not be reduced for the next seven years. the european parliament supports the ambition of the 17 countries that have emerged from the 'friends of cohesion' group to form the 'budget for an ambitious europe' group, not the poverty of the richer countries that will determine europe's future. the difference between the largest and the smallest budget proposals is three hundred and fifty billion euros, which may seem like a lot, but in fact means that european citizens would have to pay nine euros more per month to the common budget. that's what the future of europe is worth. the idea of linking the rule of law issue with eu payments seems to be falling apart as we watch the heads of state and government negotiations. we believe that this is a matter of principle. the situation is that, in a way that recalls the worst traditions of european history, they want to resolve existing political differences by means of law, by placing the prospect of harsh legal penalties on an arbitrary basis. this is not the european way. this is contrary to european democracy. so, from a democracy-protection perspective, we reject this idea of punishment for political reasons. such a solution is not acceptable to hungary.
in writing. – talking about the budget means talking about the eu’s future. sufficient funding is key to achieving common ambitions such as fighting climate change, the digital and ecological transformation, dealing with the social consequences of the later and continuing to support regions and cities, farmers, young people, researchers or entrepreneurs. the european parliament adopted its position in november 2018 and re—confirmed it in october 2019. unfortunately, the council, as co—legislator has not been able to agree on a position yet. the proposal of reducing the funds for cohesion policy is unacceptable. how can we strengthen economic and social cohesion by reducing disparities in the level of development between regions if we reduce the funds for cohesion policy? therefore we need a budget proposal that will not leave people and regions behind.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank you for this very timely debate. since the start of our presidency, this is the third time that we are discussing in the plenary the situation at our external borders. this shows the importance this parliament gives to this issue, and we fully endorse it. let us start with the situation on the greek borders, which is indeed the most pressing one. greece has been under considerable pressure since 27 february 2020, following the announcement of turkish authorities on opening borders towards the eu. according to some reports, there were some 20 000 persons inside the border area on the turkish side trying to move towards the greek sea and land borders. however, due to the timely reaction, both on operational and political levels, massive illegal border crossings did not take place. despite certain incidents, we can say that the current situation is stable, both on land and sea borders. last week, home affairs ministers met for an extraordinary council meeting to discuss the situation at the eu’s external borders with turkey. in line with the strong statements made by the presidents of the eu institutions the day before their visits to the greek-turkish border, the ministers expressed strong solidarity with greece, but also with other member states which might be similarly affected in other efforts to manage the eu’s external borders. the ministers sent a clear message that, while we acknowledge the increased migratory burden and risk that turkey is facing on its territory, and the substantial efforts it has made in hosting 3.7 million migrants and refugees, we strongly reject turkey’s use of migratory pressure for political purposes. the eu and its member states remain determined to effectively protect the eu’s external borders, and illegal crossings will not be tolerated. in this regard, the eu and its member states will take all necessary measures in accordance with eu and international law. the current situation at our external borders is not acceptable. we express clearly our expectations that turkey will continue with the full implementation of the 2016 joint statement. the joint statement produces tangible results in both the eu and turkey, and we are therefore in favour of the continuation of this cooperation and commitment. the eu wants to continue supporting refugee communities in turkey, as it has been doing for the past years. migrants should not be encouraged to endanger their lives by attempting illegal crossings by land or sea. the council called upon the turkish government and all actors and organisations on the ground to relay this message and counter the dissemination of false information. linked to this is the thriving business of organised crime networks and opportunistic migrant smugglers, which we will continue to fight actively. these messages were again clearly stated by our foreign ministers following the foreign affairs council on 6 march, which took place in zagreb. as you know, yesterday, president michel and president von der leyen met president erdoğan. the leaders discussed bilateral relations, the implementation of the eu-turkey statement as well as the crisis in syria. president michel said, after the meeting, that it had been a step in the right direction, as both turkey and the eu need to work on the full implementation of the eu-turkey statement on migration in order to de-escalate the situation. the leaders decided to task high representative borrell and the turkish minister for foreign affairs with working over the next few days on clarifying the implementation of the deal between turkey and the european union. president michel noted that the meeting had clarified a number of aspects relating to the implementation of the statement, and, in particular, had provided an opportunity to show how the eu has implemented its financial commitments, including the pledge to mobilise a total of eur 6 billion to support refugees in turkey. coming back to the situation in greece, our response has so far been the following: last week, frontex launched two calls for rapid intervention upon greece’s request – one for the sea border and one for the land border. deployments of additional staff under the rapid reaction pool, and technical assets under the rapid reaction equipment pool, are taking place. greece also activated the union civil protection mechanism for equipment that will help them provide arriving migrants with basic non-food items such as medical equipment, shelters, tents, blankets and other necessary supplies. member states have been very responsive and quick in their reaction, and the commission has been efficient in coordinating efforts. the commission has offered immediate assistance of eur 350 million to greece, which is available to support border and immigration management. the commission also announced an additional eur 350 million to further support the greek authorities. the european asylum support office will issue the call for 160 experts to be deployed in greece, as soon as discussions with greek authorities have been finalised. in addition, it is important to further strengthen regional and operational cooperation with our partners. the commission has proposed to further develop its coordination mechanism with the western balkan countries, the pending status agreement between the western balkan partners and frontex should be completed as a matter of priority and quickly implemented. all these actions are a strong expression of our solidarity with greece. they show we are firm, united in our commitment to protect the external borders. we will continue to closely monitor the situation at the eu external borders and ensure coordination between all those involved through the relevant channels.in a similar vein, the presidency will continue the cooperation with the western balkan partners in addressing migratory challenges. the justice and home affairs council will meet on 13 march to follow up on the eu’s response to the migratory situation. the council and the commission will continue to monitor the situation and coordinate eu action. on the border between bulgaria and turkey, we were informed the situation is stable. there is no increase in the number of illegal border crossings. however, the situation has to be closely monitored and we should increase our level of preparedness. concerning the western and central mediterranean routes, we have not observed deterioration in the overall migratory situation, but we remain vigilant on all routes. i will let the commission elaborate on the specific points of this action plan, presented last week, for the comprehensive assistance that the eu provides to improve the situation at the greek-turkish border.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are faced with an urgent and serious situation at our external borders. i am worried about the situation and i know that i share these concerns with you. it is absolutely necessary that we, the european union, protect our external borders, but it’s also absolutely necessary that we defend our fundamental rights and values, including the right to asylum. it’s our legal and moral duty to do both and i can hear sometimes in the debate that there should be a contradiction between the these two, and that’s not true. it’s absolutely possible both to defend our external borders – of course it’s not turkey that decides about the eu’s external borders – but it is also possible to combine this with the right to asylum and to stand up for fundamental human rights and for our values. i think that our most urgent concern is people, human beings. we need to support and protect people who are, right now, living under unacceptable conditions. in this situation, there are three things that we need to deliver at a european level. first, as i mentioned, support for people. we have a lot of people who are already in a difficult situation, who have been brought to the border under false pretences and are now in a very difficult situation. even worse, i should say, is the situation for people on the islands, on the greek islands, people in [inaudible] hotspots, living in unacceptable conditions and who have been doing so for quite a long time, vulnerable people. also families with children; unaccompanied minors; people with sickness and disabilities. but let me also mention the islanders themselves, greek citizens that are also under high pressure living on the islands. second, support for greece of course. greece manages entry at our common eu border, and we are now facing politically-motivated pressure at the european external border. it’s necessary that we support greece, and we are supporting greece, and we are now taking urgent measures in all these areas. and third, of course we must share responsibilities for supporting syrian refugees, also in turkey. as you all know, last week the presidents of the european parliament, the european council, the council and the commission visited the greek-turkish and bulgarian-turkish borders, stressing our unity, commitment and solidarity. last week also, the commission presented an action plan on measures to be taken by the union and the member states together to provide critical support to greece. as a result, together with the member states and our agencies, we agreed on a number of concrete steps. first, we agreed to support greece and other countries to handle this situation, to protect our external borders and support people. greece is obliged to protect its borders and the eu external borders, but it also has to do this with proportionate measures. with the launch of two rapid border intervention operations by the european border and coast guard at the land and sea borders between greece and turkey, an additional 100 border guards will be deployed as well as assets like helicopters and boats. frontex stands ready to coordinate a new programme for the quick return of irregular migrants from greece to countries of origin. the european asylum support office is also ready to accelerate the deployment of experts to support in greece. at the request of greece, the civil protection mechanism has been activated; 16 member states have so far pledged support to greece. that, i think, is european solidarity in action and in action quite quickly. member states are assisting greece by sending medical equipment, medical teams, shelters, tents, blankets, and a lot of other items that are needed. we also need to give financial support. the commission will immediately make available eur 350 million with a possibility to increase this by another 350 million through an amending budget, and this will be used to increase the reception capacity and the living conditions for the migrants on the islands and on the mainland. it will be used to support the provision of services such as healthcare, food provision and transportation, to support the greek asylum service, and to strengthen the ongoing voluntary return programme. tomorrow evening i will go to greece and on thursday i will meet with the greek minister and the authorities to discuss how we should implement this action plan, and of course i will also ask the greek government how they will act now to make sure that they comply with eu law and the right to asylum, and also with the principle of non-refoulement. second, our relationship with turkey. the eu-turkish statement remains valid. we must continue our dialogue, we must de-escalate the rhetoric and decrease the tension. that involves finding a path forward with turkey. the lines of communication with turkey remain open and active. with turkey, we share a joint responsibility for refugees and a joint commitment to the statement. that is why we’re continuing a constructive engagement. as you all know, yesterday evening president von der leyen and president michel had a constructive dialogue with president erdoğan. the two presidents expressed very clearly to president erdoğan their commitment to move forward with a perspective for migrants and stability in the region. on our side we are delivering on our commitments in the eu—turkey statement by having provided safe and legal pathways to europe for over 26 500 syrian refugees, and by supporting schools, healthcare and basic services for syrian refugees in turkey. we must relieve the pressure that has been brought on the border, and the main way to do that is, of course, a dialogue together with turkey, but we also must ensure that the right to asylum is respected. to conclude, let me say that the situation at the european external border towards turkey is worrying, but i also must say that this is not 2015. we are much better prepared now to manage the situation because we know better what to expect. we have reinforced our agencies, we have strengthened, we now have frontex, we have the european asylum support office. we have more willingness to cooperate between member states and we have stronger structures between the member states. that’s why it is possible for the european union to react so quickly in support to greece and to the external borders of the european union. but let me also say that, even if we are much better prepared in 2015, we are not well prepared enough, and what we are lacking is a common european migration and asylum system. this is really a problem for us and this has been my task since i took office. i have had constructive dialogues with all the 27 member states and a lot of dialogues here in this parliament on this topic to find a compromise forward for a common approach so that we together will be better prepared to face migration and asylum together in the european union. and i must say that these dialogues have been constructive. we all know it’s a difficult task, of course, but at least i’m more optimistic now than before i started the dialogues and i’m preparing now the proposals and you can expect them to be presented after easter. let me conclude with one aspect; i think i share it with many of you. it is the situation for children and maybe especially those that are without their parents – unaccompanied children, minors, teenagers. one third of all children arrive in greece without parents or family, around 5 500 children and teenagers in total according to europol; 10% are younger than 14 years old. they face violence, abuse and exploitation. many of them just disappear from their asylum reception centres and we don’t know where they are. i’m afraid that many of them fall into the hands of criminals. sometimes the same criminals who traffic migrants also traffic people for sexual exploitation. just imagine being a 15-year-old, fleeing, searching for a better life. imagine how afraid you would be alone under these circumstances and at risk of being a victim for abuse and trafficking. my mission, together with the greek government, is to put in place a process to protect and care for these vulnerable children and teenagers. i want to find solutions that will help unaccompanied migrant minors, in particular on the greek islands, with relocation to other member states, with medical aid, with housing, with safety, protecting them from being victims of trafficking. on thursday, i will be in greece together with president von der leyen. this is the aim of our purpose: to continue or to develop new ways to protect these unaccompanied minors. i call on all member states to help these children and these youngsters and to welcome them. that’s the spirit of solidarity we need that will see us through these difficult times.
i would like to thank you very much, commissioner johansson. you've noticed we're having trouble with the microphone system. we're trying to stabilize her. it looks like those who are speaking from the first row are speaking with a wireless microphone, while those in the second row -- we'll try this -- can speak at least once -- in the old system, using the normal equipment.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. firstly, the situation on the greek-turkish border is important. i am grateful that both the council and the commission have drawn a clear picture here: erdoğan is using the suffering of the people for his political interests. this is the reality of this frontier. and the other reality is that kyriakos mitsotakis and his greek government are implementing european law at this border. the european union must not be blackmailed! this is the reality of this frontier. the greek government has therefore, first of all, earned its full support. and if we compare it again with 2015, we can say that we have a different situation at the border today, because we have a government in athens today that is able to secure the border. that was not the case with tsipras in 2015. that is the reality, and it is right that we should emphasize that. i would like to thank the three presidents who have gone to greece and supported the greek government. the european union stands by greece. and we as the epp also have full confidence in the officials who are acting. those who work there and do their jobs do not want to use violence. and all greek officials working there will also respect european law. what are we going to do? firstly, before we start the necessary dialogue with turkey, erdoğan must de-escalate, that is, ensure that we return to order on the greek-turkish border. secondly, greece needs our support - with money, with frontex, with tents, as is already being done. thirdly, we are ready for a renewed agreement with turkey. but the payments should continue to go directly to the relief organizations. we as the epp are not prepared to finance the turkish state budget, but we are prepared to support the refugees in turkey. and we should not forget that lebanon and jordan also continue to be in great need of support. it should not be just turkey that is the focus. fourthly, we need a solution for the people of lesbos. commissioner, you have pointed out the dire situation, especially for unaccompanied children. we therefore welcome the fact that there is now, at last, the will to form a european-wide coalition of those who are willing to take in people in need. it is urgent that we tackle this. fifthly, the developments are a wake-up call for the european union to finally be honest about the medium-term financial perspective we discussed earlier. two weeks ago, the heads of state or government decided to reduce frontex. they've decided to cut back on their border protection funding. that is not up for discussion! the member states must finally make their minds up: do we want common external border control? the member states must then be prepared to provide the necessary funds. and we need a breakthrough in the legislative proposal. commissioner, we are waiting for your proposals, which should come after easter. and we will be your constructive counsel. we need a new head start to move forward. the real cause of the developments is, of course, syria, where erdoğan rightly says that europe should finally take action and not just comment. and that is why europe needs more ambition to act geopolitically, and kyriakos mitsotakis needs our full support. we stand by greece!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in the last few days we have witnessed the fearful attitude of the president of turkey in using the lives of vulnerable human beings for his own political gain. but despite this immoral behavior, we have an obligation to act responsibly. we must give greece all the support we can. greece deserves our responsibility. because greece is falling victim to the council's lack of responsibility in the face of the blockade of the dublin reform. and let me say, mr weber, that it seems to me very irresponsible of you to make such a reference to the change of government in greece, because the same difficulties which the government is facing today in being able to act in this situation were faced by the previous government. it is very irresponsible to make a political use of this issue, very much. let us agree on what we have to do and not use this misfortune of many people to attack a national government. the socialist group is aware of this and cannot but regret that the debate has been focused solely on protecting our borders, while we forget the thousands of people in refugee camps or in no man's land who are suffering the consequences. the images we have seen on the greek-turkish border are shocking. yes, member states have the right to exercise effective control of their borders, but such control must be carried out in strict compliance with international law. i do not know whether president von der leyen feels the same way, because when she visited greece and met with her government, she proudly defended that government, that the greek government should act as a shield for europe. shield from what? shields are used to protect us from weapons, and we're talking about the lives of people, human beings, vulnerable beings. not shields, protection. we would like to hear what the commission thinks of the unilateral decision by the greek government to suspend all asylum applications for one month. does this mean that the european commission ignores the geneva convention? i would like to recall its role as guardian of the treaties, because article 78 (3) tfeu states that any measure in this respect requires a decision by the council on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament. if we want to end this drama, we must work on all fronts. because there will be no solution to this humanitarian crisis unless the civil war in syria is ended. the commission and the council have a crucial responsibility. mrs johansson has announced to us today the presentation of this package, which we are awaiting, because it is urgent and necessary. we must bear in mind that solidarity with greece cannot be incompatible with respect for international law. let us act with that responsibility.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank the council and madam commissioner for her very heartening speech. today we are facing the consequences of four years of inertia: the government leaders who’ve been sitting on their hands since 2015 are now crying big crocodile tears because they’ve been cornered by mr erdoğan, which cannot come as a surprise. europe has abandoned its citizens and europe has betrayed its values. so now let’s try and use this crisis to do better. i think that our adjusted work schedules should not be a reason for not doing our parliamentary job as a co-legislator and a budget authority. firstly, we urgently need to relocate people from the islands, with priority for unaccompanied minors and families with children. i find the refusal of most member states – fortunately not all – to relocate people from the islands an absolute disgrace. i would like to praise the local authorities. who have been a lot more generous and welcoming – and very often wiser – than their own national governments. yes, europe also has to renegotiate with mr erdoğan. not a statement, which is basically no more than a press release, but a proper international, enforceable agreement under eu law and under the scrutiny of this house. but, more importantly, europe needs its own asylum and migration policy and we’re very interested to see what the european commission will propose. but let’s be clear: we’re not in the business of rubber—stamping here. we will play our full role as a co-legislator and not sign on the dotted line. as for the eur 700 million which have been so generously promised by the commission and council, we would like to know, again as the budget authority, what the money is for before we sign up for the eur 350 million. finally, all allegations of violence by the authorities – and that includes frontex – will have to be investigated by an independent authority. colleagues, let’s use this crisis to end the paralysis and let’s show the citizens that we can deliver. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what we’re witnessing here is a humanitarian catastrophe in many dimensions. we have one catastrophe of a humanitarian dimension at the greek-turkish border, but we also have one on the greek islands, and we have one – let’s not forget about that – in northern syria around idlib. it’s the fate of those women, of men and children – that is the crisis, and that is what we need to care about. it is shocking that europe will only care about refugees when they pose a problem at our own borders. it is shocking how europe answers people in need with tear gas, with breaking the law and with suspending human rights. is that what we really want to be? those who are fleeing from a war, those who need protection, and those who are living in unbearable conditions on greek islands or anywhere else, they need our solidarity. the eu needs to support the member states on the borders, but it completely fails if this support is understood as just more policing and keeping people out. rather, the eu should support greece with applying international law by a rapid redistribution of the people trapped on the islands or at the border. the eu should focus on safely distributing the refugees. hundreds of municipalities all across europe have volunteered to accommodate refugees. they are real heroes, and those communities deserve our praise and they deserve our support. europe cannot just turn a blind eye if it wants to be worth anything. it needs to help because we are all human beings and we are all equal.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in the last few days the greeks have been and are experiencing a hybrid war from turkey on our border in evros. a war in which we do not have as victims illegal immigrants, as the politicians of the left, including the greeks, unfortunately try to present us, but we have as victims mercenary jihadists who, following the orders of erdogan, are trying to invade greece illegally. it is a shame that, as a result of the policies of the european union, such agents are now flooding the greek islands and the greek mainland and are supported by a number of ngos whose main financier is soros. that is why we call on the greek government to stop following the directives of this european union and to follow the three basic proposals of the greek solution on illegal immigration, which are sealing the greek borders, transferring all illegal immigrants to uninhabited islands and deporting them and closing all ngos. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question with a blue card. i think you agree with mr weber that we should fund ngos. do you believe that the funding that has supported these people over the last few years has not come from this room but has come from mr. soros?
answer to a question with a blue card. we believe that this funding comes from shipping containers and is one of the direct reasons for the situation on the greek islands. the ngos are one of the main causes for us that have brought the greek islands to this state and we demand that they be closed down.
mr president, mr weber, we know your love for greece! we've had it pretty rough, but that's beside the point. today we live in times of absolute hypocrisy. erdogan is using human suffering to blackmail the european union mr. weber, you did not say anything about erdogan. member states are pushing for political games in syria and the wider region and the european union does not condemn erdogan's policy. on the contrary, in its statements its leadership speaks of a 'friendly country'. mrs von der leyen and mr schinas are offering greece €700 million to set up closed detention centres. the european union's refugee policy is changing without a decision by the institutions. you're turning my country into a prison for the persecuted. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the internal market, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals. you're not calling a summit. why would you do that? the commission's top officials did not mention the dublin review, nor did they mention the violation of the geneva convention and the right to asylum. you are turning the policy of višegrad into a policy of the european union. the need to create a progressive democratic front for a europe of peace and solidarity is greater than ever. we have taken courage from the socialists and the greens.
mr president, about four days ago i had the honour and the pleasure of being at the border with the greek soldiers, the greek police and the greek citizens who are guarding the borders of greece and the european union. we must stress and make it clear that we hear good things from the european union here about the aid it will give to greece, but for the first difficult 24 hours we saw nothing and unfortunately we were alone there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to leave the european union. it has been going on for at least five years, and greece has not only been left alone, but has been forced to accept all these illegal immigrants. so today we have reached this point. we have reached the point where erdogan is pointing the finger at us and actually threatening europe that he will open the gates of entry, which he has done, and he has done it with money that the european union gives him. so you have to stop giving money to erdogan and the turkish government, because that's the only way they understand and that's the only way this situation will be dealt with. if you say that frontex should come and help at our home border, then frontex should patrol the turkish border, inside turkey and not in greece. that's where the smugglers start and make all this noise.
mr president, mr weber's speech set the framework for the debate and the action we must take, and i fully support it, because the crisis on europe's borders, for which turkey is solely responsible today, is an unprecedented violation of human rights and the values that characterize our union and which the greek government is defending today, together with the opposition, because mr tsipras and a very large part of the opposition have agreed with the actions of the current government. but it is also the ideal time for the european union to deliver on its commitments; to show in practice that it can stand strong against provocative leaders without being blackmailed by provocative behaviour and actions. the refugee and migrant flows are therefore a threat to the very existence of the european union. we have repeatedly shown that we understand turkey's problems and are helping to solve them, but in the light of international law, which is being discredited by erdogan, who must understand that there can be no negotiations on the backs of desperate people and with inhuman attitudes, and he is not our interlocutor unless he changes his behaviour and tactics. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a question, blue card. it is true in principle that the 2015 crisis is different from the current one. so today we have a different context with a very provocative and inhuman behaviour on the part of mr erdogan, who must understand that these images we see are his own responsibility, because greece must defend these principles and values and must defend the borders of europe. therefore, since the agreement we are asking erdogan to implement is dead at this moment on his own responsibility... (the president interrupts)
in writing. – the health crisis provoked by covid-19 is taking its toll on human lives, economies and the very social foundations of our societies. to resist the dire effects of this pandemic, bold public policy action is needed to protect our economies, social structures, and well-being of our citizens. governments must take all necessary action to safeguard their citizens’ health. the eu must ensure the supply of medical equipment. although, the commission is addressing the supply of personal protective equipment, this must be extended to medical equipment such as ventilators so that no country is left behind. as this virus reaches its peak, pressure on our healthcare systems will increase and proper equipment will be of paramount importance. second, we must limit the immediate and the long-term economic and social impact of this crisis. we need strong support measures such as back-up guarantees for companies, direct financing and cash flow support, particularly for smes and self-employed persons. we must also guarantee income support for workers in technical unemployment or in part-time positions. finally, we need a joint, coordinated, european answer to fight back, combined with strong financial assistance from european instruments, in particular the european social fund and the european globalisation fund.
in writing. spain is in a critical state. the health system is collapsing in some cities. we must resolve four crucial issues that the government, through negligence or incompetence, has not been able to address and which contribute to the increase in the number of infections and deaths: - lack of personal protective equipment to prevent contagion between healthcare staff and patients; - lack of life support equipment, such as respirators. the supplies are being distributed unfairly and many patients die without this assistance; - lack of pharmacological treatments, limited to admitted patients, which prevents action in the first phase; - lack of testing and monitoring of infections. spain needs it today, let's speed up the procedures and reduce the far-reaching bureaucracy. europe must coordinate, appealing to solidarity. let's act together now! i ask that existing information about the use of medicines be shared, as we face a new disease. hydroxychloroquine, whose antiviral capacity appears to be demonstrated, is safe and widely used in some european countries, including as a prophylaxis against sars covid-19. their use can have a positive impact on the health of citizens, especially in the early stages. today in spain it is limited to hospital use. worse than that, it means loss of life, loss of business, pain. it means we all lose!
in writing. before the outbreak, it was taken for granted that air travel was cheap and fast to any corner of europe. but as the pandemic spread, it became clear that we could not expect the old order to return quickly for a long time. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. such a situation not only puts airlines' operations and thousands of jobs at risk, but also causes increased environmental damage. it is therefore natural that we should be discussing the european commission's proposal to end this harmful legal situation under the urgency procedure. i think this will not be the last piece of legislation aimed at helping airlines, but i think it is important to stress that we are looking at the other players in the sector, air traffic control, airports, flight attendants, as well as airlines, because they are all in the same boat. but this is true of the entire transport sector, and i would like to highlight the road hauliers and drivers who, despite the extremely difficult working conditions, do everything possible to ensure that the population and health institutions are provided with care. the hungarian people's party delegation will support the emergency measures proposed by the european commission, and i ask everyone to do the same.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic is having a severe impact not only on public health and our health systems, but also in economic and social terms. the european union is facing one of the greatest challenges in its history in countering the devastating effects of a virus that knows no borders and from which no member state is immune. only a joint, strong and immediate european response will make it possible to face a common situation which cannot tolerate selfishness, contradictions or obstacles. the measures which the european parliament is about to vote on are a first step. we need to identify more substantial resources and new instruments, to have greater coordination and cooperation in the fight against a common enemy. this and much more will be needed to ensure that all citizens, and particularly the most vulnerable, have the right to health and adequate care, as well as to provide adequate support to families, businesses and workers. everyone must feel involved in achieving this goal: the european union, the member states, the regions, the municipalities, those with institutional roles and citizens. only together and in synergy will we get through this emergency.
in writing. the coronavirus problem has been largely underestimated... it was thought to be an exclusively italian problem! only 200 million for the whole eu as an initial allocation for the health emergency, the absence of a common protocol to check infected and victims, the blocking of exports of masks just as italy was requesting it, european companies demanding the "virus-free" certificate for italian agri-food products. we have even seen the esm reform put at the top of the eurogroup agenda and the president of the ecb blowing up the milan stock exchange and billions of savings in a matter of hours. then it was only when the emergency came to france and germany that europe took a hit. the urgent need now is to provide liquidity to firms and households, with more flexibility in the rules on non-performing loans and a major european plan, possibly with eu-guaranteed bonds. but without the esm, whose conditionality would enslave countries with high public debt, they now face not a crisis of confidence in their sovereign debt but a symmetric shock that has affected everyone equally. europe's future is at stake: the european union must be able to respond to the challenge with efficiency and solidarity, or it will implode under the weight of its contradictions.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic is no longer just an italian issue but is spreading across the union. once again, we note with great regret that the eu has acted late, failing to provide coordinated and supportive responses immediately. now is not the time for polemics - there will be times and ways to judge behaviour such as that of ecb president lagarde - now is the time for action. we are close to a point of no return, and it is time to find out whether europe exists and has a future. those who continue to insist on budgetary dogmas or on parameters to be imposed are not only showing serious political shortsightedness, but are also taking responsibility for bringing this union to a crashing point without any possibility of a tomorrow. extraordinary measures are needed to derogate from rules and treaties. the measures we are approving today and those announced by the commission are good, but they are certainly not enough. it is not enough to redistribute resources, we need new resources and instruments, such as eurobonds, to support all the member states in terms of health, to revive the economic, productive and social fabric and to avoid the greatest catastrophe since the post-war period. we're ready to do our part.
in writing. i would like to extend my condolences to the families of covid-19 victims, wish the sick a full recovery, and express my appreciation to the heroic doctors and nurses fighting the pandemic and all those who are selflessly doing their duty to keep our communities safe. today, the fight against the pandemic is primarily in the member states. the polish government has responded in a timely manner, it is acting in a proper manner, and it has my full support. i expect the union to use the procurement mechanism flexibly and efficiently to ensure the supply of medical devices for the whole community and, where possible, also for our closest partners and neighbours: the candidate and associated countries. however, the most important task within the eu's remit is to counter the economic crisis that is to be expected after the pandemic. the eu needs to rethink its priorities and some of its policies. today, we can see from the transport industry how damaging the mobility package can be. we need to rethink the green order. we must protect jobs by making good use of the european globalisation adjustment fund and the european union solidarity fund. i have no doubt that the new financial perspective for 2021-2027 must be ambitious. i also have an appeal to my colleagues on the far left and far right of this chamber: let us beware of false friends, especially in times of crisis. the russian federation and other adversaries have not given up their ambitions.
in writing. the onset of the epidemic, at a time when the european south is being tested hard by fiscal austerity measures and illegal immigration and the north-south divide is deeper than ever, has intensified the crisis of values and put the eu in front of its historical responsibilities. it is sad to see italy, spain and most of the member states fighting alone. it is disappointing that there has been no coordinated action so far. we take financial aid to the member states for granted. however, this aid must not increase the already high public debt of the member states and of the companies in the union. there are ways to do that. we take it for granted that the budgetary targets will be relaxed. the contraction of the union's gdp is forecast to be unprecedented. but by not punishing recession and deficits we are not preventing them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that the health system must be strengthened. we need to reinforce our hospitals with beds, wards, staff, medicines and medical supplies. we should have done this coordinated by now. finally, we call for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund and all the instruments available to provide direct support for the european economy.
in writing. i've always been proud to be greek. today even more. because greece, thanks to the quick reflexes and determination of its prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis, but also the efficiency of the greek government, is dealing with the covid-19 pandemic in an exemplary way. the prime minister has made it his first priority to take responsibility for human life. the greek people have shouldered their own responsibilities, heroically, on the front lines and in every home. despite the long-term crisis, greece is implementing an ambitious programme to deal with the consequences of the coronavirus in terms of solidarity and justice. it's making leaps in digital transformation and healthcare strengthening. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the pandemic does not discriminate, it knows no borders and no nationalities. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. in terms of solidarity, to share the burdens, not of the past, but of the present, for all of us to recover. europe is at an existential crossroads. it must now do what it needs to do in terms of responsibility, solidarity and democracy. greece is leading the way in europe. and i will always be proud to be greek and i want to remain proud to be european.
in writing. – the eu must make up for its delay in responding to the covid-19 crisis, as has been admitted by the european commission president herself. we need a european union that welcomes ambitious plans and adopts mature efforts that show citizens that eu growth, protection, solidarity and support are not selective. the mistakes of the 2008 financial crisis cannot be repeated. the green deal must be at the recovery plan’s core. developing a long-term sustainable economy plan will make the eu more resilient and will further strengthen the social pillar. we need as a matter of urgency a strong protection net to support the most vulnerable and our workers, self-employed and smes. the joint procurement of medical supplies at the eu level, especially for smaller member states like malta, is vital and it must be ensured when the covid19 vaccine becomes available. the pandemic has accentuated the bloc’s vulnerabilities. amidst the crisis, irregular migration continues. for years we urged for a common response, and in the most time of need, this is not happening. malta, italy and greece cannot be left alone. pledges must be honoured and to be believed solidarity must not remain words on paper but be effectively implemented.
in writing. the wuhan virus crisis has shown that despite the eu's good intentions, its heavy machinery prevents it from acting quickly and effectively, from centrally purchasing protective equipment to creating green corridors. the lack of initial coordination and the different national approaches implemented, transformed the principle of solidarity into an individualistic vision, paralysing the internal market and making it difficult to supply basic goods to face the pandemic, such as gloves, tests and masks. the situation is still tragic, especially among our elderly, abandoned by the society for which they worked and often deprived of treatment for reasons of age, condemned to death. we need to focus our efforts on health and saving lives. until then, economic activity will not be able to function properly, but we cannot be late or short. the community's priorities must be reoriented to reflect the realities of the present situation. it is necessary to guarantee liquidity to smes and the self-employed and to reduce or eliminate taxes for them if they are to survive the crisis, since they have seen their revenue fall to zero. otherwise, they will disappear forever and with them jobs.
in writing. the apology to italy for those in europe who were absent and deaf to its calls for solidarity made it clear that the european union was delaying in promoting coordinated action to combat covid-19 and its health and socio-economic consequences. some member states should take a cue from what millions of european citizens have long learned by demonstrating responsibility in respecting containment rules: we need to protect each other to better protect ourselves and those who need it most. the well-being of the eu as a whole depends on the well-being of each member state. these same citizens are also looking to the european institutions to provide the necessary safeguards to deal with the crisis, mitigate the impact of the pandemic and restart the economy. it is time for the eu to put aside national suspicions and divisions, to show that it is a community in which no one must be left behind. let us have the courage and the ambition to follow the path indicated by italy and other states: recovery and reconstruction need not only existing funds and financial instruments, but also more substantial resources to be accessed through an innovative recovery fund, a fund of common european bonds to finance the most affected countries.
in writing. despite the propaganda, the resolution discussed in this session does not depart from the positions taken so far by the other eu institutions, confirming a picture marked by the total absence of solidarity and the inadequacies of the response to the consequences of covid-19. the crisis we are talking about here was already in its infancy, and was inseparable from the consequences of eu policies and guidelines. the implications associated with the covid-19 outbreak have triggered it, given it new and unexpected contours, made it worse. covid-19 is a huge public health problem with huge economic and social consequences. but these consequences, the impacts on workers and people, depend on the economic and social context in which the pandemic response operates. under capitalism, as is being demonstrated, these consequences will always be more painful for the overwhelming majority of the population than what is necessary. the situation facing workers and peoples requires significant public investment measures in health protection, social protection of the most affected and disadvantaged, defence of wages and employment with rights, and the revival of economic activity. the breadth and depth of the response required requires the release of the constraints imposed by the eu and the recovery of essential spheres of sovereignty of states.
in writing. the pandemic does not change the existing security threats. actors like russia, china, and iran continue to launch cyberattacks and disinformation campaigns. ukrainian soldiers are still being killed in donbas. in the occupied crimea, repression against the tatars continues. no one is responsible for the health of the inhabitants of the occupied georgian regions. the assad regime, with the kremlin's backing, is committing more crimes, not sparing hospitals. these countries are trying to use international forums to strengthen their position. russia is manipulating the facts to get sanctions lifted. china, which has long disguised the scale of the threat, is waging a massive publicity campaign. instead of seeking the favor of beijing, we should pay more attention to learning about the good practices and experiences of our asian democratic partners, such as taiwan and south korea. i regret that the commission has not said anything about these matters today. we've also heard too little about the role of other organizations, including nato, whose planes, equipment, and specialists are serving our societies today. i also lacked information on supporting research into vaccine and drug development - which is of the utmost importance to overcome the pandemic - including cooperation with the us, which houses the world's most advanced and largest research laboratories. i agree with my italian colleague raffaello fitt, who warned that the commission and the eu institutions should not escape responsibility for their mistakes and omissions by making political attacks on member states, including poland.
in writing. the time has come for europe to show its solidarity and ensure the well-being of its citizens. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the primary sector must be strengthened and protected. small and mediumsized enterprises are in danger of being dissolved. in addition to direct payments, member states are invited to provide the necessary liquidity for the following day. citizens who have lost their income find it difficult to meet even basic needs. we have a duty to ensure that no european citizen is deprived of basic goods because of the pandemic. the health systems of the member states are being tested hard. the same is true of all sectors of the economy, such as tourism, industry, fisheries and trade. the european union must ensure that this necessary financing of the economies of the member states does not create a new major debt crisis. we are asking for measures to cancel the new debt, measures which in the long term will help our economies to grow and to live longer. we are opposed to half measures and borrowing, because we are casting a spell on the problem, only to find it bloated and unmanageable later on.
mr president, 70 years ago, schuman said that europe would not be built by one building or by a whole. it will be shaped by concrete achievements which first create a real solidarity. his words, then, are more timely today than ever. we are at a critical juncture and it is imperative that we choose the path of solidarity, because we risk losing everything we have built over the last 70 years. what we are experiencing in europe today is national interests, national imposition, not by war but by economic power, the law of the absolute supremacy of the strongest. there must be an end to this and our response to this crisis must be a bold recovery plan. real support for those in need through subsidies, not new debts. new tools for the european union's own resources, so that the richest do not decide for everyone else. finally, genuine democracy with equal participation of the european parliament in the decision-making process on the recovery plan.
in writing. the low absorption of european structural and investment funds (esif) has been a weak point in achieving eu policy objectives over time. many studies highlight that to maximise the impact of funding on the economy, significant improvements are needed in terms of simplification of procedures and sound financial management in order to increase stakeholders' access to european funds and ensure their proper use. the proposal for a regulation on common provisions for the european commission's funds for the next mff 2021-2027 is a step in this direction. however, the large socioeconomic impact of the pandemic requires more drastic measures. the mff 2021-2027 should ensure that there is enough money but also that it reaches those who need it most quickly. the disbursement of money must keep pace with the changing reality to enable our small businesses, universities and local government to implement their plans in an efficient way. in conclusion, the 'new normal' in the era of the pandemic requires increased flexibility, adaptability and a reduction in red tape in the management of community funds in the new programming period in order for europe to meet the expectations of its citizens.
in writing. there is no doubt that the use of digital technology is essential to effectively respond to covid-19. we'd all like to be safe, knowing that we have an app that will anonymously alert us to potential carriers of the virus. but first, we need to ensure that the data collection practices developed are safe, effective, transparent, and fully meet the criteria of appropriateness and necessity required by the principle of proportionality. but how effective are these applications today? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. but even so, the data shows that to be even remotely effective, they would have to be used by 60 to 75 percent of a country's population. in greece, the vulnerable population, aged over 50, is the majority and does not use smartphones, at 71%. the fact that the use of the applications is voluntary makes the serious risk of failure of the project even more apparent. but sectors such as tourism need practical solutions now. how will this be achieved when each eu country uses its own application? if these questions are not answered immediately, i fear that the use of contact tracing and alerting apps is becoming "too little too late"!
in writing. we support mrs von der leyen's proposal for the creation of the european recovery fund, which is an important step in the right direction. the eu member states need more than ever today to have access to financial support without exclusion, with speed and with flexible procedures. the symmetrical nature of the crisis and the depth of the coming recession leave no room for inhibition. the pandemic has knocked on all of our doors, but unfortunately for some, the consequences will be more severe than they can bear. for example, member states such as greece, which has only recently begun to emerge from a long-term fiscal crisis, where the economy relies heavily on tourism, obviously need and deserve more support from the new european recovery package. the criteria for allocating funding should include the level of the recession caused by the pandemic as a percentage of gdp, the level of unemployment, as well as the general state of the economy of each member state. the criteria for allocating resources from the european recovery fund should be fair and take into account the specificities and needs of each member state. the european union must show its solidarity in action.
in writing. we want a fair distribution system. the objective of the treaty, namely that eu funding should serve cohesion and the uptake of the poorest, should be implemented. it's unfair that poor and disciplined farmers finance the rich and undisciplined. hungary has learned from its own example that it should not be indebted to future generations. it's against the constitution. the hungarian parliament abolished the state of emergency yesterday. the constitutional empowerment of the government and the unity of the hungarian people made possible quick, effective action. hungary has avoided the fate of belgium, which is the same size as ours, where unfortunately the number of victims is twenty times higher. yesterday's decision proved that the press, mep maxová and her colleagues lied when they attacked hungary. there is nothing more despicable than to attack from behind those who are fighting for their lives on the front line in a time of danger for all. if they couldn't help, they had better not have interfered with the fight against the virus. you'll be ashamed of this for the rest of your lives. everyone despises those who, in trouble, bore the bottom of the common lifeboat.
in writing. we are talking again about the post-brexit partnership agreement with the uk. we should speed up the action to ensure the security of our countries and our citizens. consider a few things. further negotiations should be based on a political declaration, which now serves as a reference for the negotiations and defines the parameters of the flexible partnership. inter-institutional cooperation is to ensure the safety of our citizens living in the uk. it is essential that both parties to the future agreement maintain current eu standards of consumer protection and citizens' rights in line with the eu legal acquis. the agreement should ensure the protection of citizens of both countries in the implementation of the obligations of businessmen employing workers from outside the uk, in particular from central and eastern europe, a significant number of whom live in the british isles. we must also do everything we can to ensure that the principles of free movement of persons between the eu and the uk continue to apply after the transition period. the uk notification of a derogation from this rule is of serious concern. the future partnership should include provisions on the movement of persons based on full reciprocity and the principle of non-discrimination between member states, and the uk's access to the union's internal market should be proportionate to the commitments it has made to facilitate the mobility of persons, taking into account the principle of reciprocity in bilateral relations. the agreement is intended to protect eu and uk citizens, including their family members. they should be given all the necessary information on their rights and the procedures to be followed in order to continue to live and work in, or to travel freely to, the country of stay.
in writing. the recovery of the european economy is in the interest of every member state. in the face of this historic crisis, it is right that we use all the means available to us in the eu to revive our common internal market. but there is still a lot of room for improvement in the package. i personally think it is important that the fund should provide more loans to the member states than proposed and only a small proportion of direct aid. in order to avoid blurring the responsibilities of the member states towards each other, the commitment to good governance must be included in the criteria for allocating resources. while agreeing on the costs, it is also necessary to decide clearly on the plan for repaying the loan. the increase in the eu's own resources must be supported by a proposal, i think a good example is the idea of a tax on non-recycled plastics. however, taxation requires a unanimous decision by the member states, which has not yet been achieved. it is now important that the member states find a common position on future own resources and the taxes to be directed at them. if the loan is not repaid, it could lead to cuts in the eu budget in subsequent seasons, reducing funding from all eu programmes. the key to recovery is to channel resources to support industrial renewal, digitalisation and sustainable growth. it is worth channelling as much of the package as possible through existing eu programmes. this is important not only for efficiency but also for transparency and parliamentary control. it is good that the latest commission proposal includes some additional funds for achieving climate neutrality. at the same time, however, i am disappointed that the proposal cuts the cef programme, which finances crossborder transport, energy and digital infrastructure. to keep our economy competitive, we need to invest in modern connectivity.
following the robust and widely agreed positions in the european parliament, the european commission presented a new generation recovery fund, strong, broad-ranging and with a solidarity model. it is essential that the council adopts this proposal swiftly and without unacceptable distortions, which has been understood by the vast majority of european citizens as a proof of the union's viability and ability to respond to their needs. such unconditional approval is a condition for the fund to receive the consent of the european parliament. the exceptional way in which barriers and limitations in the design of the different programmes and response mechanisms have been overcome must be passed on to the implementation procedures so that resources start reaching those who need them most as soon as possible. the recommendations for the brexit negotiating process are appropriate and should be scrupulously followed up. the withdrawal agreement must be respected, as must the commitments made in the political declaration. it is also necessary to ensure regulatory alignment and to defend the interests of the european fisheries sector and the rights of union citizens.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to once again discuss with you the conference on the future of europe; a reflection that today seems more important than ever in view of the unprecedented challenges our union is facing. the situation has no doubt radically changed since we last had a chance to discuss the issue in this plenary back in january. the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic has, in the meantime, left deep marks on our societies and economies, leaving no one and nothing unaffected, including the plans we had for the conference. for obvious reasons over the last few weeks and months, we had to focus our attention on the most pressing priorities for our citizens; foremost the health emergency and its economic and social consequences. if anything, however, the crisis has shown us how important it is to reflect together on the future of our union. the presidency therefore remains strongly committed to reaching a consensus in the council as soon as possible, with the aim of finding an agreement with parliament and the commission on the timing and manner of launching the conference and on its overall concept. however, i want to strongly underline that we are doing our best to find swift agreement in the council on this important issue. that work is still ongoing and has intensified over the last week at coreper, ministerial and other high political levels. on 9 may, in his address to mark europe day, the croatian prime minister, mr plenković, stressed the paramount value of the future of europe open debates with our citizens and other stakeholders for shaping the vision of our common european future. he invited all eu member states to reach a consensus as soon as possible, as well as the agreement with parliament and the commission. on 26 may, the presidency also included a discussion on the conference on the agenda of the informal videoconference of ministers of european affairs. as it emerged from these exchanges, the design of the conference will of course need to take into account the recent developments. the presidency is therefore working on the revised text of the council’s position in order to also reflect the covid-19 reality. we take note of parliament’s new resolution on the conference on which you will vote in this plenary which similarly seeks to reflect the new reality. at the same time, we believe that the nature of the conference should not fundamentally change in the light of the pandemic. the conference should contribute to the development of our policies in the medium and long term, so that we can better tackle current and future challenges while taking into account as many views of different stakeholders as possible. while the lessons of the covid-19 crisis should be included in our reflection, we also consider that the crisis has further highlighted the importance of the already identified priorities of the 2019-2024 strategic agenda. these priorities range from strengthening our single market to successfully delivering the green and digital transition, and delivering concrete results for the benefit and well-being of our citizens. most importantly, we remain convinced that the upcoming conference should be an inclusive process involving our three institutions in full respect of the interinstitutional balance and of our respective roles. likewise, member states should be involved equally, including their national parliaments, and shared ownership remains important. finally, let me reiterate that to deliver on our priorities, as well as defining a vision of europe in 10 to 20 years, cooperation among institutions will be imperative. as the coronavirus crisis has reminded us all, divisions make us weaker. only by overcoming them will we be able to proactively shape our future.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, last time i had the opportunity to address this house on the conference on the future of europe was on 15 january, a few short months ago. since then, our world has changed significantly. we are not yet out of the crisis, so we cannot be certain of the impact that this will have on our work for the moment. my key message to you today is that the conference on the future of europe is now more important than ever before. it is an exercise in democratic participation, which showcases the european way. our common rights and values are central to the resilience of our societies and will be the basis on which we build our recovery from the corona crisis. i am convinced that we must continue to move forward together with ambition and vision. i see my job as reaching out to each and every european citizen. the covid—19 pandemic shows us the importance of solidarity. it has also shown how together we can recover, repair and come out stronger from this crisis, as president von der leyen recently said here in this very chamber. i agree and would add that only together can we build the present and the future that citizens deserve. and please note this: the present and the future. the commission has proposed a clear, structured plan that aims to lead us out of crisis and into sustainable and long-term economic growth, based on a green transition and a digital transformation, as requested by the european council. the recently-announced comprehensive package for european recovery, with its overall budget of eur 1.85 trillion, will help europe recover from the crisis and support multiple european sectors as we emerge from this period of constraint. this includes major initiatives like next generation eu, which will boost the european budget in the first crucial years of the recovery and contribute, together with the reinforced budget for 2021—2027, to making it sustainable, inclusive and fair for everyone, including those in disadvantaged areas and those who were hit hard by the crisis. together we will come out of the crisis. the conference on the future of europe is an excellent tool to engage and involve all europeans. i look forward to the joint declaration by the parliament, the council and the commission and later – as soon as possible – to launching the conference on the future of europe. let’s be honest. politics is no longer business as usual. we must be brave, have the courage of our convictions and deliver for the citizens. they demand it of us and we have a mandate to respond. we need to strengthen our representative democracy even more by offering an opportunity for enhanced participative democracy. i rely on your support for making this joint declaration a reality as soon as possible. we need to agree on the structure, scope and main principles of the conference and establish principles for those who want to become our partners in this exercise. yesterday, at the cosac meeting, the national parliaments made it clear that they want to be partners in this joint endeavour, and we need to consolidate this partnership approach. we are not competing for influence here. we need to work together to be able to reach out to as many citizens as possible. they count upon the council of ministers to reach an agreement on a mandate to enable us to start as soon as possible the negotiations on the joint declaration so that the conference can be launched as soon as possible. this is the commission standpoint. in this context, i would like to say a few words on democracy and the conference on the future of europe. during these times, people feel left behind. they blame democracy itself sometimes. while unfortunate, this also shows the importance of democracy and its relevance in our daily lives. who present here today could have imagined the way in which covid—19 has infected our european union in so many different ways at so many different levels? surely this current crisis shows now more than ever that democracy and democratic institutions have a key role to play. we understand that citizens’ trust in democracy cannot and should not ever be taken for granted. citizens have been asking for greater participation in policy-making, and we need to listen to this call. by involving citizens and civil society even more, we will help to reinforce democracy in the european union. let us have the courage to put innovative tools to work for democracy and citizens, starting with the conference on the future of europe. to conclude, i will end by reminding you why we are having the conference on the future of europe. it is for the current and the next generations of europeans. together we – citizens and institutions – will find ways to give europeans a greater say on what the union does and how it works for them. let us have the courage to make a success of the conference on the future of europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would also like to thank the council and in particular the vice-president of the commission for their words. the first point, which i think is essential to say here, is that it is very good that the groups, i would say the pro-european groups in this house, have been able to find a new impetus for the conference on the future of europe, and so this was the first point i wanted to stress. it's that we are clearly united and we have a vision that is a shared vision of what the conference should be. secondly, i would also like to say that today, as the council seems to have discovered more recently, the conference on the future of europe is more important than it was six months ago, and six months ago it was already very necessary, but now it is more important. why would you do that? because the pandemic has not created new problems, it has made the problems that already existed much more apparent, and therefore it is needed now. there is an awareness on the part of the people, the citizens, of the problems facing europe, in particular the problems which have to do with, on the one hand, what the major objectives of the european project should be, which are the new major objectives, and on the other hand also the problems of democracy, the problems of the rule of law, the problems of citizen participation and therefore these, so to speak, the major objectives and principles of the conference are clearly more necessary today than before. secondly, and this is very important, it is essential to realise that in these circumstances we must involve the citizens and we must follow up and draw conclusions from this conference. these are two points which are also in the resolution, but the most important point, and here i have to address the council and follow the commission: to ask the council to take a decision, to ask the council to finally take a position on this matter, because, my dear friends, it is not enough to say nice things. we always hear very nice words from the presidency, but we have seen no progress, no action and we continue to see great hesitation in the council. this is also a signal to the citizens of europe. the council cannot complain about the lack of democracy and then delay the conference on the future of europe ever further. the present and future generations deserve a different treatment and therefore the council must quickly take its stand and we must take this democratic process forward in an unprecedented way.
the s&d group is therefore calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. inequalities, pandemics, climate change, digitalization -- these are challenges that we all face no matter where we live. we also need to speed up the change in the union's decision-making system, moving from unanimity to majority voting in some crucial areas. we were already thinking about this before the covid-19 crisis: a european conference to reflect and define its future. this conference is now more necessary than ever. covid-19 has exposed some serious shortcomings of the union that need to be addressed, including the lack of competition in healthcare, the chaotic closure of borders and also the lack of solidarity. if we add to this the risk that there will be no agreement between the member states to approve the recovery plan, then we will be faced with an unprecedented economic and social crisis. unfortunately, the council is still playing it cool. while parliament and the commission have been ready since january to launch this conference, the council has not yet been able to launch an agreement. ladies and gentlemen, we need to have a stronger european union in the future, and we cannot do this alone in the bubble of europe. we need to open a great debate, and the council has a great responsibility in this. they can count on a parliament that is aware of the responsibility we have to tackle the changes, the challenges and to build a stronger europe with citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the reason for this resolution is very simple: it is not a resolution to the commission, it is not a resolution to the colleagues in the parliament, it is a resolution that is in fact made for the council. i hope that the council this time can reach an agreement so that we can launch this conference, because let’s be honest, it becomes more and more like the monster of loch ness. from time to time it appears, then it disappears, it is more like an illusion, like a fantasy and we must avoid that. this is serious business, this conference is not one or other little instrument for the european parliament. this conference is vital, it is crucial for the future of our european union, because let’s face it, this covid crisis is another illustration of it. this covid crisis will change the world. it is a world that will be completely different, a world that will no longer be dominated, i think, by the united states of america who is withdrawing from the international scene for the moment. it may well be dominated by china who wants to become, and who already is, a world power and who wants to dominate the world and international scene. between america and china there will be europe stuck between them and if we don’t want to be stuck between the us at the one hand and china on the other hand, and if we want really the instruments to defend the interests of our citizens, we need another european union. this european union is not fit for purpose. not fit for the future and we all know it. the council knows it, the commission knows it and certainly our citizens know it. so it’s time now to start really this exercise because we have not a lot of time, maybe we can tell that to your colleagues in the council. there is the covid crisis, there are precedent crises, tomorrow there could be another challenge. so my hope is that we can take a decision to make this common declaration between the three institutions and we can start this conference as early as possible in september.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. my political group also believes that a deep reform of the union is necessary, especially - and we agree - in light of the recent experience with the pandemic, which has shown how unprepared we are for the existential threats. he also supported the idea of organising a conference on the future of the european union, if this conference were to be truly open and allow those who do not adhere to the federalist orthodoxy to speak. unfortunately, after what my colleagues have said, it's hard to have that kind of hope and to see any merit in it. we believe that the union should be restored as a european community of sovereign nations based on a euro-realistic vision of a confederative europe that respects the rights and legitimacy of democratic member states. we must strengthen its spiritual foundation. if there's anything we should learn from the history of the 20th century, it's how dangerous it is to try to completely rebuild society. in her speech today, president von der leyen recalled the principle of 'unity in diversity' as the basis of european integration. but in reality, instead of diversity, we have long seen a gradual uniformity of cultures, opinions and collectivities in europe. nations feel that their right to self-determination is being slowly taken away. so the european union is becoming more and more a european, turning its back on its philosophical and religious traditions, on its past. we must make it european again in the proper sense of the word.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to join my predecessors in saying that we need the council to take a position on this conference, together with parliament and the commission. eight months have passed since the president of the commission promised this conference to the people of europe. the european parliament immediately started working very hard on how we can get this conference moving. many questions concerning the future organisational and institutional structure and the constitutional mandate of this conference are still to be settled, so time is simply running out and we must move, or else we will not only make a fool of ourselves as eu institutions, but we will further shake confidence in democracy and the european union's capacity to shape things. the eu's system of governance suffers from a number of serious shortcomings - we all know this - that have become clear in the last decade: the euro crisis, the migration crisis, shortcomings in the rule of law. in addition, the eu is facing further crises as a result of brexit. we certainly have differences of opinion on enlargement, the new multiannual financial framework, the ecb and how to deal with the covid-19 pandemic. both the old and the new crises are only exacerbated by the institutional weaknesses of the eu's current constitutional architecture. and this urgently requires that the eu's capacity to act is tested with citizens and that effective and legitimate change is made in a transparent way. and that's why i think we need this process of self-reflection. that is why we need the consultation of citizens in this conference, so that we can not only set up a consultation mechanism and a dialogue again, but we can achieve real changes to deal with these questions of the future. so, dear council, let us now begin the organization of the conference. because we need this conference more than ever.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the socioeconomic crisis caused by covid-19 has made even clearer and more evident the need to bring citizens closer to the european institutions. in a recent survey commissioned by our parliament, 57% of our citizens were dissatisfied with the solidarity shown by the member states during this emergency. it is time to act, ladies and gentlemen, and turn a difficulty into an opportunity. we must overcome once and for all those legal obstacles and paradoxes, such as unanimity, to overcome the unanimity of the bridge clauses, to strengthen the legal base and the union's concrete action in the social field, in health, to reduce the growing inequalities and to defend all those rights and solidarity that citizens are clamoring for. we must do this from below, we must do this by amending the treaties if necessary, without excluding any instrument. the world has changed, the union must change. parliament is ready to play this global game to defend our values and our project and to the council we say: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, i would agree with all of you that we have been involved in debating the conference on the future of europe for so long that i believe the time has come to make it happen. we are members of the european parliament, whose obligation, actually, is political courage and political bravery, and we have been elected by citizens. but we are also citizens of the european union and we can see, as citizens in our daily life across europe, citizens’ attachment to a europe that cares about her own citizens and a europe that is open to the world. the pandemic has also shown disparities between what we as citizens expect from europe and what it can do for us today. there are empty spaces in europe’s capacity to act which can be captured again by anti-european populists. that is why this conference and the direct engagement of citizens is so important. the conference is potentially a ground-breaking opportunity to achieve a more democratic and legitimate union, but it can also help us make europe more effective. let me finish by saying that it would be a shame if this conference did not open up the path towards making our treaties future—proof, adjusting the treaties to citizens’ expectations, with a view to boosting their chances in an entirely changed global world. as citizens said to me, ‘the boat of history has just arrived on our shores and we cannot miss it’. i wanted to share this with you.
madam president, can i just say to mr beck that you must not have read the memo, because these are not orchestrated dialogues with citizens; these are citizens’ dialogues, we don’t orchestrate and we will not orchestrate. in fact, this parliament is saying very clearly to the council, and is frustrated by the council’s lack of ability to come to a decision. we want to engage with our citizens and it’s not for today or tomorrow, it’s for the future. none of us has predicted the pandemic and yet look how it has changed how we work. look at the impact on citizens, on families and societies. why can’t we discuss this openly? can i just say the words ‘as soon as possible’ were used by the council — asap. when i hear that, to me it means now, not in a year’s time, today. so please, you are hearing the frustrated voices of this parliament collectively, except for one or two, who want you to move forward and to sit down with the parliament to engage with national parliaments, with citizens, with the commission and create a better europe. it is not about more, it is about better.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, many thanks for this opportunity to engage with you on the conference on the future of europe. i think that your feedback is very important to our work and i really do appreciate what i heard today. i appreciate your contributions and your will to make the conference happen, so thank you once again. let me remind ourselves that when the commission communication shaping the conference was adopted on 22 january earlier this year, the union was in the seventh consecutive year of growth and forecasts pointed to an expansion in 2020-2021. today, with millions of citizens slowly coming out of confinement and the global recession unfolding, the perspective has radically changed. however, our determination to engage with citizens and ensure their voice is heard has not changed from that moment. a key message from me today is that the conference on the future of europe remains crucial. in fact, i would go so far as to say that because of the pandemic, it is now more important than ever before. european citizens should have greater say on what the union does and how it works for them. answering the difficult questions helps to save lives. let me stress that we want the conference to be an open, inclusive and transparent and structured debate. i referred earlier to the commission communication on the conference. the principles stated in it are still valid. the conference should allow citizens to focus on what they consider to be important. the commission’s political priorities and the european council strategic agenda provide a broad framework. having already held many dialogues with citizens, i am convinced that issues such as healthcare and the european union’s response to the public health crisis will now have a more prominent role in the dialogues among citizens. despite challenging circumstances, we aim to launch the conference on the future of europe as soon as possible. or, as ms mcguinness said just now, once the council has adopted its mandate, we can agree on a joint declaration. we are committed to follow up on what is agreed by the conference. this will be the measure of our success and i commit to it fully. prior to the coronavirus outbreak, i was on a listening tour of the european union. i had planned to visit all 27 member states but i did only 10. in the first six months of my mandate, in my mission, i was focusing on national and regional examples of where citizens are structurally involved in decision-making processes because getting the feedback mechanism will be key for the conference on the future of europe this time. a feedback mechanism is one of the most important things in this conference and this is different from previous consultations. we need to make sure that ideas found in local discussions can be meaningfully discussed at european level. just like the honourable members today said, i insist that the conference on the future of europe must be representative of geography, gender, age, socioeconomic background and level of education of citizens. it must also be inclusive of minority populations. all are part of our europe’s diversity. it is important to keep an open mind. as i have said to you before, i believe that we should not predetermine the outcome. this is what we agreed many, many months ago, so we should not predetermine outcome or restrict the issues for discussion. this is an important moment for us. we have the potential to lay the ground for a new type of politics, for a new dynamic to complement representative democracy together. only together can we do this. together, we can reinforce the link between european union policymaking and the citizens’ increased trust. increased trust, increased legitimacy. let us make the conference on the future of europe a real success for our citizens. thank you once again for your contributions and i’m looking forward to the council agreeing on a joint declaration and then we can start; i think september would be the best timing to start this. thank you once again.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude i wish to thank you once again for the useful debate we have had today. i have listened carefully to your views on this important subject and i have taken good note of them. the presidency is completely dedicated to finding common ground in the council. the conference is very important to all of us, but personally i regret very much that we were not able to launch it in dubrovnik during our presidency. before the outbreak of the pandemic, the croatian presidency spared no effort when it came to facilitating an agreement towards the council mandate on this issue. let me reassure you that we will continue to work with vigour and ambition in this direction. the conference is a new project and some of the stakeholders have far-reaching ambitions for this exercise. it is expected that member states approach it with different ideas, views, experiences and priorities. in any case, we are seeking consensus. as this is a very important and emotional debate for the presidency, and my last plenary as minister-delegate, allow me a few words in my native croatian. poštovani predsjedavajući, u prvom hrvatskom predsjedanju vijećem suočili smo se s izazovom kakav nije viđen od osnivanja europske unije. ponosna sam na našu zajedničku brzu reakciju, na predanost svih kolega, ponosna sam što smo osigurali kontinuitet donošenja odluka u vijeću, ali i stalnu komunikaciju ministara u svim formacijama vijeća. danas posebno želim zahvaliti svim zastupnicama i zastupnicima u europskom parlamentu koji su nastavili raditi zajedno s kolegama u vijeću i komisiji, na vrhuncu krize, kako bi se usvojili prvi paketi mjera za suočavanje europskog zdravstva, gospodarstva i društva u cjelini s pandemijom covid-a 19. nadam se da ćemo zajedno jednako uspješno raditi na planu oporavka za europsku uniju. hvala vam što ste s entuzijazmom podržali hrvatski program i prioritete predsjedanja. vaša suradnja bila nam je neprocjenjiva u ovih šest mjeseci. dopustite da završno izrazim svoje čvrsto uvjerenje da ćemo do kraja mjeseca pronaći konsenzus oko stajališta vijeća o konferenciji o budućnosti europe. zdrava, otporna, odgovorna, snažna i sigurna europa, po mjeri naših građana, mora biti naš prvi prioritet. želim vam svima puno uspjeha u daljnjem radu na dobrobit europskih građana i vidimo se ponono. bila mi je iznimna čast predstavljati prvo hrvatsko predsjedništvo vijećem u europskom parlamentu.
in writing. to avoid the dangers of an overly centralised europe or a totally fragmented europe, the rec group believes it is essential that the fundamental cohesion factor be based on responding to the real needs of the member states for harmony and prosperity. needs that have to do with following a humanist and transcendent pragmatism where the principles and values "pillar of our laws" are based on human rights such as the defense of life, liberty and dignity. these, in turn, cannot flourish without encouraging policies to strengthen the institution of the family. a family as the measure and criterion of a healthy society, focused on the real needs of all its members, because it is where men and women, young people and children are best educated and protected, in a constant creative exercise to unleash their competences and abilities. in this perspective of strengthening this basic and primary unity we shall achieve real coherence in our proposal for a community of sovereign nations, where the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and transfer are governed and can be fully and consistently respected.
in writing. the conference on the future of europe is organised by the parliament, the council and the commission and was expected to start in may 2020 and run for 2 years. the fact is that the conference is extremely necessary, especially in a world radically changed by the crisis, in which europe will seek its place between the united states and china. in this situation, the eu will need clear objectives, which the conference on the future of europe can set out. the conference is undoubtedly a chance to bring about the necessary reforms in the eu so that it can be closer to the citizens. to end the practice of dividing eastern and western europe. to put an end to the hypocrisy and the practice of a two-speed europe. to this end, it is imperative that all points of view be heard. for now, the preference is given to ultra-federalist utopias, proven to have failed during the pandemic and the hysteria associated with it. it seems that parliament has fully and unequivocally supported the organisation and holding of the conference, whereas the commission and especially the council are not at the same level of readiness. i call for the organisation and conduct of the conference to be conducted in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and with respect for the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. the conference on the future of europe intends to give a democratic appearance to an integration process which has disregarded and defied the will of the people whenever it has proved to be contrary to the intentions of those who have determined and are determining the course of the eu. the process of the 'convention on the future of europe', which was to lay the foundations for a 'european constitution', is remembered, in an operation of mystification which was then being intensified and which is now intended, in general terms, to be repeated. as with the convention, the conference on the future of europe seeks to re-impose a pre-determined political roadmap and objectives, concealing the eu's responsibilities in the current economic and social situation and aiming at deepening its policies, which are at the root of the sharpening of social inequalities, the increase of development asymmetries and the increase of dominance versus dependence relations between countries. once again, they seek to create or deepen mechanisms for controlling and influencing the budgetary and economic policies of states such as economic and monetary union, the budgetary treaty, economic governance, the european semester or the banking union, which represent an unacceptable and serious obstacle to the full exercise of sovereign powers by countries such as portugal, which are fundamental to their economic and social development.
in writing. this debate is taking place at a crucial moment for the eu. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment-related measures. the conference on the future of europe must now, more than ever, be an open process involving as many community and national actors as possible, so as to express the will of the citizens more directly and to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the union. for the same reason, we believe that the national parliaments should play a more important role, given their stronger democratic mandate, as should the european parliament and the institution of civil society. we believe that the objectives of the conference should be, in particular, to increase the participation of citizens in the administration, to strengthen the role of the european parliament and the directly elected institutions of the union, to provide for more instruments and institutions of direct democracy, to strengthen the role of national parliaments, and to spread and decentralize powers. we also believe that the priority must be to bring migration flows under full control and to distribute the burden of the problem fairly, to respect the sovereignty of the member states and to protect europe's borders effectively.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, tourism is a powerful growth accelerator and it is the economic sector that has been hit hardest by the health crisis. millions of jobs are at risk with the degradation of labour rights and horizontal cuts in wages and incomes. tourism is the people of hospitality and it cannot exist without them. we must support small and mediumsized enterprises which are suffocating from lack of liquidity to survive in this critical period. we must prevent bankruptcies and takeovers by the powerful, as well as serious price distortions that will harm healthy competition, the market and consumers themselves. today, therefore, we are calling for the safe resumption of travel, with mass testing, without financial burden on citizens, immediate support for work and businesses to remain competitive the next day, as well as effective tools for the future, a budget for tourism, a european crisis management mechanism including protection and compensation for travellers in the event of bankruptcy, and a comprehensive european strategy for sustainable tourism.
in writing. – commission vice-president věra jourová finally ‘named and shamed’ china, along with russia, this week in the communication on ‘tackling covid-19 disinformation’ for engaging in ‘targeted influence operations and disinformation campaigns around covid-19 in the eu, its neighbourhood and globally, seeking to undermine democratic debate and exacerbate social polarisation, and improve their own image in the covid-19 context’. it is our duty to protect europe and its citizens. it is our duty to tell the truth and to reveal the sources that intentionally cloud it or twist it to serve their own interests. it is our duty to ensure that the truth shines through on all occasions. i do hope the commission continues in this direction and exhibits the same determination in other contexts such as turkey’s shameless disinformation campaign about the situation at the greek-turkish border, where refugees and migrants are being used as pawns in turkey’s geopolitical chess game at europe’s external borders, as european leaders had the chance to see with their own eyes. after all, an affront to the truth is an affront to european values. it is an affront to democracy itself and it cannot be tolerated.
madam president, i congratulate the efforts of the european commission and most member states for their global promotion of gender equality and lgbti rights. the european commission must continue to enhance its efforts in promoting and defending these values, be through political action or financial support. both are important. this is now so crucial because we have to counter the discriminating and very well internationally organised anti-gender movement. i also appreciate our multilateral approach and the leading role of the european union international fora defending lgbti rights and gender equality. however, leading role means leading example, otherwise we lose all credibility. i call on the european commission, the council and also to this high house to not only speak up but also take swift action when it comes to the most recent backlashes to lgbti rights in some of our member states, namely the lgbti-free zones in poland, the discriminating legislation in hungary against intersex and trans-persons. the commission and council must act and i say that we have to be coherent and stay credible when it comes to promoting human rights worldwide and encourage human rights defence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in keeping with the words of the high representative in the introduction to this report, the covid pandemic has changed, perhaps forever, our world and our societies. i wish i could say that this experience has served to renew a sense of humanity and compassion, but in many cases the emergency has been used and instrumentalized in many parts of the world to reinforce human rights repression, censorship and discrimination. we must be proud to be part of an institution which must not be afraid to speak out forcefully in defence of human rights, even when the interlocutor is an important commercial or political partner. it is therefore essential to reaffirm forcefully that the eu is and will continue to be a beacon in the dark, at the forefront of the struggle for respect for human rights and democracy, on the one hand making its voice heard loud and clear within the international institutions and defending multilateralism, starting with full support for the international criminal court, which is once again under unacceptable attack, including from the united states. on the other hand, it is essential that the union mobilise all the instruments at its disposal against major violators: the eu must follow up on its commitments and adopt a comprehensive human rights sanctions regime as soon as possible, as the uk has done.
i would like to welcome this report and would like to thank the work done by the leadership that is represented in this important place. the commission also welcomes the recommendation by eamon gilmore that the irish government be given a special mission to the united nations in the coming year. the laws on maritime affairs are debated and debated in parliament. it is to be done by the people around the world, especially by those who are standing on the ground, by those who are in the air, by those who are in the air, by those who are in the sea. look at what's happening to the woman around you; it's a bad scannalach. and i believe in china, i believe in people, and i believe in people because of religion. caithfimid standing up from the sea go minic is sinne an t-aon ghuth láidir cumhachtach ata acu.
mr president, the report on human rights and democracy which we have the opportunity to examine today is very prescient. the integrated approach to situations on the ground, including the development of strategies and benchmarks for action, and the focus on multilateral dialogue, has proved even more appropriate in the face of the health, economic, social and political fractures exposed by the pandemic. we cannot hesitate in the face of the rise of authoritarianism and populism in the world, the closing of borders, the increase in intolerance and the stifling of freedoms. the path of the european union must be even more the path of the promotion of human rights and multilateral dialogue. i have only a minute, mr high representative, so i would like to focus on the situation in mozambique, in the province of cabo delgado. it is a situation where human rights safeguards are at great risk as a result of a combination of fragile governance, pressures resulting from the exploitation of new gas fields, reduced socioeconomic conditions and growing signs of religious intolerance. it is a case where a humanistic and multilateral approach can make all the difference and gain a stamp of exemplarity in our choice and position in the world. european action is needed, mr high representative.
madam president, thank you very much, high representative, for your report and for your work. for us, the human rights situation in the world is not only worrying, but a sign of the deterioration of some of the major global trends we see, of our multilateral system and human rights protection mechanisms, of the questioning of international law and humanitarian law and the increasingly common emergence of rulers who believe that, in the name of the majority and democracy, the rights of those who do not vote for them can also be violated. they also speak in their report of some groups and of the questioning and systematic violation of the rights of children or women, of the questioning of the rights of migrants and vulnerable people, also within our borders. but i want to end by referring to latin america and the worrying emergence, increasingly, of murders and human rights violations of indigenous leaders, leaders of human rights defenders and leaders of the defenders of the territory and the environment. that is also a challenge for the european union and we look forward to working together.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, from this podium of the european parliament i denounce turkey for its continuing and escalating threats, blackmail and attacks against cyprus and greece, two countries which are members of the european union. at the same time, i warn the european union that if it does not take immediate and decisive action today to stop turkish aggression, tomorrow it will be too late and the consequences will be uncontrollable. if we all in the european union believe that solidarity is a fundamental value, we have one thing to do: to call on the member states of the european union to deploy their naval forces to the european union so that it can defend and guard its external borders, which are the borders of cyprus and greece. i am proud and happy to belong to the european people's party, which takes this position and unreservedly supports the positions in favour of cyprus and greece. at the same time, i share the view of the leader of the european people's party, manfred weber, that if turkey continues along this line, the customs union must be suspended. but we as the european parliament must also cut turkey's accession funds and exclude turkey from the multiannual financial framework, because only then can turkey understand the problem it is creating in cyprus and greece. the european union is a strong, strong, united europe. )
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i have a question for the esteemed high representative. i really wonder whether president erdoğan is still in favour of joining the eu, don’t you? look at turkey’s recent actions. they go completely against all european values and interests. its illegal drilling activities in territorial waters; its violation of the un arms embargo and its intimidation against eu and nato allies that are enforcing the libyan arms embargo – not to speak about its purchase of the russian missile system and the arbitrary arrests of human rights activists, lawyers, judges and journalists. last but not least, its repeated threats and blackmail to open up the gates to europe. the list could go on. so to me, high representative, turkey’s accession wish is a joke! yes, turkey is a strategic partner, both for europe and nato. it’s a neighbour and i do believe in the necessity of a strong partnership, but turkey continues to move further away from the eu. this parliament has been clear about its position. this authoritarian turkey cannot join the eu. i thank you for your efforts in continuing the dialogue with turkey but i also ask you to be very clear and frank with turkey that there can be no upgrade of relations, in whatever form, as long as its actions do not change and as long as turkey does not show readiness for serious reforms. thank you very much and good luck.
mr president, the recent turkish escalations in the mediterranean and the violation of the territorial integrity of greece and cyprus are challenging our partnership. as the european parliament, today we should once again make it very clear that turkish activities, like the illegal drilling in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, the violations of greek airspace or the attacks on the greek border are simply unacceptable. turkey must take concrete steps to de—escalate the current situation. i would like to thank the high representative, josep borrell, for his initiative to start, to restart a dialogue with turkey. indeed, mr high representative, we need to talk urgently. we need to talk urgently on the basis of firm principles and fully united as the eu-27.
mr president, we have repeatedly criticised turkey for its drilling activities in cyprus’s exclusive economic zone, tensions it causes in the aegean sea, and its engagement in libya. finally, the council has decided that a regime of restrictive measures should be put in place against turkey, which the s&d group supports. the list of open issues with turkey continues, with the turkish maritime claims and violation of greek airspace that have led to a significant deterioration in relations between greece and turkey. turkey has also been continuously interfering in libya’s internal affairs, violating the un embargo and undermining the efforts to find a political solution under the auspices of the united nations. we call on turkey to show restraint, respect the sovereign rights of cyprus and refrain from any such illegal action. if turkey’s illegal actions continue, the european union must respond appropriately, in full solidarity with cyprus and greece as european union members.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, since 2002 we have given turkey over eur 16 billion to bring it into europe and to manage the problem of immigration for us. we have allowed erdoğan to blackmail us with the threat of migrants in the balkans and now we are doing the same thing, we are risking the same danger in the mediterranean, where the turkish advance is fomenting chaos and where their ngos are indoctrinating the people with neo-ottoman ideology. the eu, which is making a lot of trouble to help italy economically, should explain to us what those 16 billion were used for. strengthening the european project? i'm not sure. if anything, it will strengthen erdoğan's imperial projects. it is suicidal to entrust the management of europe's borders to those who want to weaken europe, just as it is utopian to hope to stabilise the mediterranean with those who want to conquer it. the solution is not to continue to kiss turkey's feet, but to strengthen politically and economically france, spain, greece and above all italy, with its south, which are the only real guardians of europe's security and future in the mediterranean. if we want to stabilize the mediterranean...
mr president, we are here today to talk about security in the eastern mediterranean, security which all those who listen to us know is threatened exclusively by turkey. and it is logical to be threatened at a time when turkey is illegally exploiting greece's mineral wealth, smuggling illegal immigrants, violating the greek borders on a daily basis and being occupied by a neo-ottoman expansionism. and at the moment when all this is happening, we were surprised to see mr borrell talking to mr çavuşoğlu and telling us that the european union is ready to negotiate with turkey over greece's mineral wealth. the european union is not going to turn its back on its own members until when? and not only does it turn its back, but directly and indirectly supports a country which, according to thousands of complaints, in the 21st century is recruiting underage children of six and seven years old and in the name of a religion is calling them to become martyrs and sacrifice for turkey. all you people who talk about human rights what do you have to say about this situation? in conclusion, and for the reasons i have mentioned, we as the greek solution demand that all funding from the european union to turkey be stopped and that all dialogue with turkey be stopped.
mr president, we all want good relations with turkey, provided that it respects us. it will respect the rules of international law. he won't step on them, as he's been acting very provocatively lately. otherwise this dialogue is pointless, because this relaxed attitude gives erdoğan room to provoke, to blackmail, to be arbitrary. even the hagia sophia, this world heritage site, he wants to turn into a mosque. he's challenging us because this is not a military operation. it's a blow to our culture. it is a blow to christianity and to us greeks it is a blow to our hearts. that is why we were all surprised by the images that the world saw during your visit, mr borrell, to turkey. after erdoğan refused to meet you, once again humiliating the european union in your face, as he did at the joint press conference with mr michel and mrs ursula von der leyen, and he left in a show of hands and did not go, you heard the minister insult three european union states and did not respond to him. you didn't have the reaction you should have and it was like giving amnesty to turkey. but you should have reported the council's conclusions ... (the president interrupts the speaker) )
mr president, mr borrell, just yesterday in this chamber, chancellor merkel praised our role as meps in explaining the union's policies to the citizens. i ask you, mr borrell, how can i explain to my fellow citizens in rhodes, karpathos, kasos and crete the illegal turkish drilling operations which are in flagrant violation of international law? how can i explain to my fellow citizens in evros, lesvos, chios, samos, who are welcoming thousands of refugees and migrants in an unprecedented show of solidarity, the fake news of the turks presenting them as child murderers? and how do i explain to my fellow christians that hagia sophia can be turned into a mosque? and how can i explain to my fellow citizens that when the turkish foreign minister openly threatens the union and refuses to recognise one of its member states, cyprus, you, our high representative, smile as you accept a gift of hand sanitizer? if after all this, mr borrell, i am called upon to explain to my fellow citizens that what we need instead of sanctions is constructive dialogue with turkey, then at least, as a sign of respect, no smiles.
in writing. 15 years have passed since the opening of negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union; the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity. it continues to violate the sovereign rights of its neighbours, undermining stability in the region. it continues to flout international law and the law of the sea, as it has repeatedly done in the case of the greek and cypriot eezs. the turkish president, mr t. erdogan, does not hesitate to escalate the situation in the region dangerously with illegal delimitation agreements, illegal drilling and repeated violations of european airspace. in the last six months alone, mr. borrell, turkey has committed three thousand violations of greek airspace. president erdoğan is unilaterally challenging international treaties such as the lausanne treaty. it is working on monuments of world cultural heritage, as it is doing in hagia sophia, provoking the religious feeling of christians worldwide. it exploits the suffering of refugees to create a crisis at europe's borders and continues to systematically violate human rights and the rule of law. mr borrell, we have heard nothing about sanctions against this anti-european policy, but rather generalities about solidarity, dialogue and negotiations with a country which insists on not complying with the values, principles and law of the european union.
in writing. – finally … we have a deal! finally … the council, after copious negotiations reached a mutually acceptable solution and a deal that will determine the future course of the european union. finally, you understood what the european parliament was telling you all along, in response to voices of our citizens across europe, that we must rise to the occasion and face the challenges created by the pandemic with courage, solidarity and ‘more europe’. finally, you listened to leaders of member states, like the prime minister of greece, kyriakos mitsotakis, who told you that we are facing an unprecedented economic crisis and we don’t have the leeway to appear divided or weak. finally, you reached a compromise and made a courageous leap towards a more united europe. finally, you gave my country, greece, a historic opportunity, after ten years of austerity, injustice and pain, to move on with the necessary reforms to achieve its productive reconstruction. we must complete this ambitious effort quickly for the benefit of european citizens. with solidarity, cohesion and procedures that safeguard the democratic processes guaranteed by the european parliament and with respect of the principles and values of a united europe. finally… together, let us take europe to the next level.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs on their contributions to the report. the overall objective of the eu civil protection mechanism is to strengthen cooperation between the eu member states and create a strong bond to face all disasters. the experience during the covid-19 pandemic has shown that the union and the member states are not adequately prepared to respond to large-scale emergencies. we have witnessed two different european faces, the first of unconditional help with medical support and equipment offered between member states, and the second, that is disappointing for our values and common future as a union, in which some member states closed their borders to eu citizens or temporarily detained medical and protective equipment just for themselves. we cannot talk about solidarity or respect for the european citizens’ well-being when we allow some member states to work unilaterally. we cannot talk about strong mechanisms created and functioning within the framework of our institutions when some of the member states act for their own personal interest, with no transparency against other member states, whatever their purpose is. we are and should remain a strong, united union of countries fighting for the fundamental right for health in the 21st century to all the european citizens. we are elected to make sure that this will be preserved on its absolute ratio.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members are right that these are crucial times for georgia to demonstrate the maturity of its democracy. i have also been in georgia in difficult times, much more difficult than now. the country is demonstrating democratic strength and economic development, and i think that we have to welcome that this parliament will be stepping up its cooperation with the georgian parliament after the next elections and will also not shy away from reminding georgia of the need to deliver on the full reform agenda. the problems at their borders should not be an excuse for not solving the problems in the interior of the country that only the georgian people can solve. the european union, through our association agreement, will continue supporting georgia in this endeavour.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, [inaudible] to close today’s plenary. this debate clearly demonstrates that georgia has made substantial progress on its european path. this parliament acknowledges the reforms on the part of the georgian government which strengthen democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and of course, we also know work is still to be done. let me just highlight two items that require georgia’s continued commitment. first and absolutely core in the implementation of the association agreement is the need for the georgian government to consolidate the rule of law and to continue its pursuit of justice reform. second, and crucial to georgia’s adherence to the terms in the association agreement, is guaranteeing media freedom. we all know that georgia’s media landscape is highly politicised and as we are here speaking on georgia ahead of the national elections, we also know the great responsibility that lies on the shoulders of all the political parties in georgia to ensure a free and fair election. let me conclude with some positive words, with some words of support. georgia is a country close to my heart. some of my best friends live in that country and the country has come a long way in its aspirations for democracy, freedom and prosperity, and that in a very difficult geopolitical environment. the eu must recognise this and continue to be a key motivator for reforms to continue. i think we all agree that the georgian people deserve no less.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the preparation of the special european council meeting on the dangerous escalation and the role of turkey in the eastern mediterranean (2020/2774 ((rsp)). i would like to point out to members, as i did yesterday, that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards are accepted. the representatives of the presidency and the council have spoken in favour of this declaration and i have the honour to give the floor to mr michael roth.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i am honoured to be part of this debate today on this important point. i am pleased to present to you the priorities of the special council of heads of state or government of the european union. in these troubled times, it is important that the european union stands together, speaks with one voice and does not allow itself to be divided. this is precisely the focus of the german presidency of the council of the european union. the european union's role in the world is to be strengthened, because we have a lot of positive things to contribute. we all know that authoritarianism is growing, democracy is under pressure worldwide, and it is all the more important that we strengthen and expand our common model based on democracy, diversity, the rule of law and human rights. that's what the special council is going to be about. we're dealing with some tough actors. i want to start with a difficult actor: turkey. the situation in the eastern mediterranean is extremely fragile for many reasons: the situation in the middle east, the unresolved issues of migration and refugees, and turkey, which is not living up to the responsibility it should have in this region, namely to contribute actively to stability and peace. the next european council must therefore send a signal of our full solidarity with greece and cyprus. the second important signal that should come out of this council is that we do not need any further escalation now, but that we should contribute to de-escalation. that there can be no military solution to this conflict, but that we are seeking a political solution, and that we are making a substantial contribution to that, including in the way that all options are on the table. the heads of state or government will also have to negotiate with josep borrell and others about what will happen if turkey does not live up to its special responsibility. another key player that we've had a lot of discussion and debate about is china. this is particularly complicated because we see china as a partner on the one hand. i can't imagine a sustainable global climate without china on board. we are also dealing with a competitor in trade and economic policy. it should be in our common interest to find a rules-based basis for working closely together on trade and economic issues. but -- and this is what makes it the hardest -- china is also a systemic rival for us. we have our own social model. our social model is unthinkable without human rights, democracy and the rule of law. that is why we must have an open and constructive exchange on these issues. just yesterday, in the videoconference, these issues were addressed: climate change, trade, the economy, but also human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to draw your attention to other issues that i would like to address here, because they are also the focus of the special council, because we all know that in march, due to the coronavirus, the important issues of the economy, digitisation and climate protection had to be left behind. we have just had another discussion last night in the context of the own resources debate on the importance of the 'next generation eu' programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the heads of state or government will also be discussing this. covid-19 has hit the single market hardest. but it cannot be our sole aim to restore the internal market. we also want to deepen the internal market, especially with an ambitious industrial strategy. because if we are really serious about climate action, we also need to show that we are competitive in industrial policy, that we are the front runner. this will give courage to those who say that industry is not compatible with ambitious climate action. we must prove the opposite: climate protection, a sustainable industry, a competitive economy and a strong welfare state go together. the european union must be able to take action to combat the spread of this disease, and we must be able to take action to combat it. we need to build our resilience. we do not want to do away with free and fair trade, ladies and gentlemen. but we have found that in products that are central to the safety and health of our citizens, we also need to be self-sufficient, that we need to strengthen european supply chains, and that is what the heads of state and government will be about. please note that i wanted to make these important points. but they are also part of a strong europe in the world. it is not just a question of how we define ourselves to other actors, but it is always about our own strength. we believe that the issues of climate protection, sustainable economic development and social and ecological conversion play a central role in this process.
the european union's own strength lies in its unity and a strong common foreign and security policy. i now give the floor to the vice-president of the european commission, mr josep borrell fontelles.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the subject of our discussion today is the preparation of the special european council, but focusing on the dangerous escalation and the role of turkey in the eastern mediterranean. that is what i am going to try to do, although as the presidency of the council has pointed out, rightly, there are many other issues. yesterday, we had this important high-level talk with china, and in general, europe is facing a situation in which we can say that the empires are coming back. the old empires are coming back. there are at least three of them. we can say russia, china and turkey, big empires in the past, are coming back with an approach on their immediate neighbourhood and globally, which represents, for us, a new environment. and turkey is one of these elements that changes our environment. this debate is very timely. i have to say that tensions have been continuing to rise over the summer. i’ve spent the last few months, including the summer, trying to facilitate de-escalation efforts, but the least i can say is that more efforts are needed; this is the softest way of saying that the situation has not been improving. and the latest move by turkey to discontinue seismic exploration in the continental shelf of greece is a step in the right direction and gives us some hope that it will lead to further steps towards dialogue because, as the presidency said, we are not going to solve it by military means, but through dialogue and negotiations. european union and turkey relations were at the forefront of an extraordinary foreign ministers discussion at the meeting that we held in the middle of august, 14 august, and of our gymnich meeting at the beginning of september, and we will continue next week at monday’s foreign affairs council and then the european council at the end of the month. all that is good and needed because the situation in the eastern mediterranean requires urgent and collective engagement. what has been happening during the summer are unacceptable events. turkey has to refrain from taking unilateral actions and this is a basic element to allow the dialogue to advance, or rather, to start, and the position of the foreign affairs ministers council has always been very clear: to defend the european union’s interests and stand in full solidarity with greece and cyprus. immediate de-escalation is essential to allow the resumption of dialogue and negotiation, which is the only path towards stability and lasting solutions. my colleagues, the european union foreign ministers, were very clear about the possible consequences in the absence of progress in engaging with turkey, and the european council will consider this in the light of the most recent developments by the time they meet. there is still some days. the reaching-out continues, hoping that the european council will be able to develop a constructive approach to our relations with turkey which are – i can say firmly – at a watershed moment in history. the world will go one side or the other, depending on what’s going to happen in the next few days. i therefore ask you to support my efforts and the efforts of the council to create the urgently needed space to work with the turkish leadership to achieve a de-escalation that will allow the pursuit of lasting solutions to the underlying problems of today’s crisis. anything else would also undermine the perspective for the resumption of talks on a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem that the united nations are ready to restart after the election of the turkish community in cyprus in october. i’ve been talking with the secretary-general of the united nations about it and i think that we need to push for the resumption of these talks. the eu and i, as high representative, will continue to do everything we can to support the efforts to achieve this comprehensive settlement under united nations auspices, in accordance with the relevant united nations security council resolutions and in line with the principles on which we have founded our acquis. in terms of domestic developments in turkey, we perceive a worrying backsliding in the area of rule of law and fundamental freedoms that continues to raise our concerns. we still fail to see turkey delivering on its promises to take effective measures on a strengthening the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. turkey’s serious backsliding away from european union values and reforms and tense relations with several member states led the council to decide in 2018 on a stand-still of the accession negotiation and suspension of work on modernising the customs union. these were commitments that we took with turkey under the 2016 agreement, but in 2018 the council decided to stand still on these negotiations and on suspension of the work on modernising the customs union. with the serious developments in the eastern mediterranean and turkish foreign policy actions in the region since last fall, things have become even more worrying and complex, and as i said, this is a watershed moment in the history of our relations with turkey. it’s clear that solutions will not come from an increasingly confrontational relationship. we don’t want it, we don’t look for it. turkey is an important neighbour for the european union, and we are not going to change geography. it will remain so. it’s a key partner in many areas, migration, for example. it is going to be difficult to believe that we can solve the migration flows without the help of turkey both in the eastern mediterranean and now with the libyan crisis in the central mediterranean. turkey is an accession candidate, and a large majority of this population embraces our values and looks to the european union as a societal model. but it’s clear that the developments in turkey and turkey’s action in the eastern mediterranean and beyond put into question how our relations will develop in the future, and we have to look for an answer to these questions urgently. i strongly believe in the need for a solid relationship anchored in a common agenda of partnership that respects mutual interest and is based on values, but this requires us to look at the full relationship in a comprehensive way. i think that this discussion will help us to advance in this direction.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, during the past weeks, we have witnessed an alarming military build-up in the eastern mediterranean. all of us are extremely concerned by the very real risk of a direct military confrontation. last thursday, in the committee on foreign affairs (afet), we discussed this dangerous escalation with the alternate minister of foreign affairs for european affairs of greece and the minister of foreign affairs of the republic of turkey. it was a remarkable meeting in several aspects. listening to the comments of colleagues across party lines, for me four points are very clear. first, de—escalation is urgently needed. second, we fully support the council’s clear position of solidarity with our member states, greece and cyprus. third, we condemn the turkish drilling activities in the exclusive economic zones of greece and cyprus, and we consider them illegal. fourth, at the next european council the option of additional sanctions against turkey must be openly discussed in the light of continued turkish aggression. this conflict can only be resolved through dialogue and negotiations. i very much hope that the ongoing mediation efforts will bear fruit. but, as the high representative just underlined, further concrete steps towards creating an environment conducive to dialogue in good faith are needed now. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in the last few days, since i began to prepare for my speech today and to think about what i will say here, i have realized that my positions are the same as the last time we met, six whole months ago. the conclusion: nothing has changed, obviously. so let's do a little review to help some of you out. it is clear that turkey does not understand dialogue and logic. so far, it has violated every clause of the lausanne treaty that defined its borders, and it has proven that when it sees no reaction, its appetites increase. the european union must therefore react vigorously. if you want to provoke a war, give turkey support instead of sanctions. we say that very heavy economic sanctions must now be imposed to further damage erdoğan's economy. it's the only way they'll understand. it is of course important that the european union has people who understand the situation and are honest in their duty. unfortunately, mr borrell and his associates are presenting the turkish demands in such a way that one would think they represented turkey. i am ashamed that such people represent the european union, and i hope that the next time we meet this situation will have changed.
mr president, the debate on turkish aggression, which is contesting the borders in the aegean, maintaining the occupation in cyprus and encroaching on the cypriot eez, cannot hide the responsibilities of the european union, which maintains high-level economic, political and military relations with turkey and, together with the united states and nato, is encouraging its aggressive actions in the wider region. their aim is both to detach turkey from the influence of russia and to strengthen the southeastern wing of nato, and to co-exploit the aegean and the eastern mediterranean for the benefit of the bourgeoisie and american and european monopolies through dangerous competition and bargaining against the peoples. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. the answer is: common struggle of the peoples, no change of borders, rejection of the painful arrangements of the united states, nato and the european union and disengagement from the imperialist alliances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
mr president, mr borrell, unfortunately the council has not shown the political will to articulate a strong response to turkish threats, which is why turkey continues to ignore calls for de-escalation. the turkish threats are not only directed against greece, cyprus or, today, france; they are directed against europe itself. they directly attack the substance of its principles and the core of its acquis. it is a challenge for the european union to be able to impose 'fast track' sanctions on third countries with ease, but at the same time not to have a consensus on strong sanctions against turkey, which is attacking europe, because european states continue to maintain strong economic ties with this country, and solidarity is ultimately a matter of words. in the face of this external threat, the european union must demonstrate that it can put together a strong front to impose strong economic sanctions immediately. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. president, in politics there are times when you have to choose which side you're on. in the case of turkish threats, blackmail, provocation, and the flagrant violation of the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, as well as of international law, it goes without saying that the european union will take the side of its member states; at least in words, because so far all we have are statements: mr borrell's, the leading european institutional actors, the member states' statements, statements, statements. statements of solidarity and support and statements that push us towards de-escalation and dialogue. and, don't get me wrong, statements are welcome; as is de-escalation and dialogue. because, as our prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis said, "the challenges stop, the discussions begin". but in politics, in the end, you're not judged by the statements but by the result. it is obvious that mr. erdoğan does not take words at face value. i therefore ask you today to send a clear message to the summit that, as far as turkey is concerned, it is time to finally move from statements to sanctions.
the european union has shown that it is blindly listening to the new order of things, which determines how we live and how we move for the rest of our lives. i've been listening to the speeches all this time, and i didn't hear us discussing the most basic thing. why not say that people are now losing their basic rights, the simple, everyday human freedoms that they had fought for and won for so many years? we are now in a process where no one can speak and no one can question the coronavirus's status quo. but we cannot judge all of this when we see other things as reality than what is happening and what they want to pass us. the minute i have just to speak is very short, and i will stand at a landmark event: a company started a while back that wants to make a vaccine. we in greece, and i as a member of the european parliament, asked the european parliament to tell us why this company has come to an agreement with the leaders of at least 25 european countries so that no one can prosecute it in the event of a side effect. i haven't had any response, no one has dared to talk to me, until the company itself stopped at some point to release this vaccine and to experiment, because it said that the side effects are too much to bear. so we cannot talk about humanity in the european union when a child cannot see his father or mother dying, and cannot go to the hospital on the pretext of covid-19. and they don't even perform autopsies on the victims. there's a fairy tale they're trying to force on us.
in writing. the european parliament, after the first shock of the pandemic, promptly called, as early as this spring, through its committees and through resolutions of the plenary, for the coordination of the opening of borders in view of the tourist season. we had predicted that, without coordination, the result would be disastrous. president sassoli repeated this two weeks ago. the commission has, however, ignored us and remained a passive observer. just last week he made a belated attempt at coordination. the european commission has shown undue inaction, resulting in great suffering for thousands of travellers and, unfortunately, the resurgence of the pandemic in many parts of europe. the chaos that still exists today must end immediately. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and effective manner. all citizens, regardless of where they live or travel, must be clearly informed of what is happening throughout europe. and the coordination and support of the member states by the commission is necessary in order to implement these rules properly. the health-economic crisis is here and it will last. only uniform rules can provide an effective response to the pandemic.
mr. president, the failure of the commercialised public health systems in all european union countries to deal with covid-19, the tens of millions of workers who have lost their jobs or are currently on furlough, the 95 million people living below the poverty line, proves that your policy is anti-people and is driven by the profits of the few. in the face of the new capitalist crisis, what you are interested in is to strengthen european groups against their competitors with the sweat of the workers. that is why you impose new taxes on the people, misleadingly calling them own resources, while the recovery plan is mainly directed at supporting businesses in high-profit areas such as green energy, digital technology and networks. the peoples of europe have paid a very high price for your growth and for your crisis. they will not accept that you again burden them with new burdens and new memoranda with national recovery plans. they will fight for their modern rights against the strategy of the european union, governments and monopolies that you represent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has the highest circulation of child pornography in the world, according to the internet watch foundation. this fact gives a sense of the gravity of a phenomenon that generates hate crimes and increases, committed both online and offline in different forms, in every segment of society. disabled children, migrants and trafficked girls and girls are the most vulnerable groups at risk. the implementation by member states of the existing legislative framework is essential for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of crime, as well as for the assistance and protection of victims. cooperation between different social actors, such as institutions, families, schools, social and health services, has a primary role in providing help and protection. if we can protect children, we will protect the present and the future of our society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. before we continue with the final statement by commissioner johansson, i would like to open the first round of voting today. i do not mean to belittle the debate, but to avoid delaying the rest of the day. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.30 a.m. to 10.45 a.m. the same voting procedure as in previous rounds shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 10.45. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 12.30 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the council and commission statements on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children (2020/2702 (rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i feel the honourable members’ strong commitment to fighting child sexual abuse. i count on your support for the interim legislation on the table and i count on good cooperation with the implementation of the strategy. we heard from mr lenaers about being a parent and the strong emotions that you feel to protect your child. but i think that we all also feel, as adults, strong emotions about protecting all children and the obligation, as politicians, to take the proper measures to do so. i will work with you to protect children, both online and offline, and of course, there is also a very strong link between online and offline crimes. ms pelletier mentioned that because, to be able to see this content online, you have to produce new content and that is the ongoing raping and abuse of children. it is also, of course, the case that, when these materials can stay there for years, being watched again and again and again, the crime is been done again and again and again towards the victims. i think that our upcoming european centre to prevent and counter child sexual abuse will play a key role in this area. it’s important that many of you have stressed the implementation of the directive. we already have the ongoing infringement procedures and all of you that are studying the strategy can see that there are a lot of things in the strategy that will help member states to really implement the directive, so this will be the focus. may i also say something about the interim legislation that we have on the table. this is to avoid an unintended situation where otherwise we would make it impossible for the voluntary detection of child sex abuse materials that the companies do right now. i must say that i think that mr kolaja is falling into a very dangerous trap here. there is no contradiction between working on prevention, working with victims, working on the implementation of the directives, working with hotlines and also making it possible that we do not put into force an unintended effect that would stop the internet companies from doing this important detection and reporting. hotlines play a very important role, but they only detect a very small fraction of this material because most of the material is not public. it’s in communication or more closed areas. some of you have also mentioned trafficking and that is important. i can tell you that we are coming forward with new proposals and a new strategy to fight trafficking. that will be part of the upcoming proposals at the beginning of next year on fighting organised crime. to conclude, i must say that there is one thing that perpetrating paedophiles fear more than anything else, and that is the light. they would like to stay and act in the dark. i think that ms sippel said something very wise here: being silent and looking away is simply not an option. i fully agree. let’s turn on the light. as ms vautmans said, if we don’t do it, who will do it? i fully agree with that as well. we have the power. let’s use that important power together to protect children. (applause)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the sexual abuse and exploitation of children is an intolerable violation of human rights. according to council of europe estimates, one in five children in europe is a victim of some form of sexual violence. in 2019, the eu also achieved the world record for child pornography material hosted. and the covid-19 crisis has exacerbated an already dismal situation: in some member states, demand for child pornography has increased by up to 25%, and worldwide the number of reports of child sexual abuse has quadrupled. given the often cross-border nature of these crimes, there is a need for coordinated and joint action at eu level to tackle this phenomenon offline and online. prevention, protection, victim assistance, investigative coordination, repression and sharing of best practices should be the priorities of a multi-sectoral approach involving law enforcement authorities, researchers, organisations involved in supporting children and the private sector, in particular online service providers. the strategy presented by the commission, which is the result of the dialogue with parliament and the intergroup on the rights of the child, is moving in this direction. legislative measures and concrete actions must now be taken to ensure that children's rights as enshrined in article 24 of the covenant are respected.
in writing. – sexual violence knows no boundaries. it occurs in every country, across all parts of society. in the last ten years, online child sexual abuse increased exponentially worldwide, from 1 million reports of child sexual abuse material in 2010 to 17 million in 2019. the old warning ‘don’t talk to strangers’ has lost its power. in online chat, strangers come disguised as teenagers; they know all the right words and all the right music. the current covid-19 pandemic has further increased the risk of sexual exploitation for children, because they are spending more time online. for children who live with their abusers, the isolation linked to the covid-19 crisis may have dramatic consequences. fighting child sexual exploitation is a joint effort between law enforcement, eu member states, non-governmental organisations, international organisations and the private sector. i am very pleased that the european commission launched in july 2020 a package of measures to better combat child sex abuse – a european strategy to fight child sexual abuse. i am convinced that such a strategy is the right way forward, as increased cooperation is needed to coordinate efforts to protect our children online. it is our obligation to protect children. let us do what is needed.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the importance of urban and green infrastructure european year for greener cities 2022 by sirpa pietikäinen, christel schaldemose, karin karlsbro, bas eickhout, jadwiga wiśniewska and idoia villanueva ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000039/2020) (b9-0014/2020). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words at any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted.
the commission. i am not sure that this is the case. ladies and gentlemen, mr president and representatives of the commission. i am here today on behalf of the environment committee to talk about how we can make our cities greener. green cities are more important than ever. they are key to tackling the major climate and environmental challenges we face. three quarters of the eu's population live in cities and suburbs, and this proportion is increasing. so we need to make an effort to help all those many people to live a cleaner and healthier and better life. greener cities are not just about making cities look greener, green cities are also about ensuring cleaner air, water and soil and reducing noise and stress. green cities are about ensuring longer and better lives, and they're about combating the consequences of the climate crisis. take air quality, for example. urban air quality is one of the eu's most important health challenges. each year hundreds of thousands of people die prematurely because of air pollution. and after air pollution, noise pollution is the biggest environmental cause of health problems. we can do something about this if we do something to make sure our cities are greener. we can solve these problems with smart and simple and green investments. for example, we can plant natural noise barriers, we can prevent soil erosion and flooding with good urban planning. we can also replace asphalt and concrete with planted soil and substrates that are more easily penetrated by water. green initiatives in cities can also help to safeguard our biodiversity, because with noise barriers and flood protection and air purification initiatives, we can actually help our bees, butterflies, flowers and other fauna. we really have to make a huge effort to do something about our cities. that is why we in the committee on the environment have wanted to ask this question. so to sum up: green infrastructure can tackle many of the challenges facing urban environments, such as the consequences of extreme weather, loss of biodiversity, etc. and that is why we would like to ask the commission here today: is the commission considering nominating or supporting the nomination of a year for greener cities in 2022? we believe that this can help to raise awareness of how we can make our cities green. and how does the commission intend to promote the exchange of best practices from the major cities of the member states? and what measures will the commission take to help spread green infrastructure? in other words, we in the committee on the environment want to make an effort for green cities and we want to ask the commission what it is going to do to support this development of green cities.
member of the commission. – mr president, this year probably more than ever, the two thirds of europeans living in cities and urban areas have particularly valued the green spaces in our cities. during lockdown, we have rediscovered the comfort they provide, both physically and mentally, and during the extreme heat waves that have hit europe this summer, we have enjoyed the cooling they brought. we all know greener cities are cooler, smarter and healthier. the ambition to green european cities and increase biodiversity in urban spaces was enshrined in the goals set out in the european green deal, which highlights the importance of urban green infrastructure for improving the quality of life in urban areas. reflecting the importance of this subject, you propose in your draft resolutions a european year of greener cities for 2022, which could possibly offer a platform to promote policies and to buy in support at city level to strengthen the implementation of eu environmental laws and policies and, thereby, to support delivery of the european green deal. i have taken note with great interest of this idea, and once adopted by this house, we will assess its feasibility and timing, also within the context of various city initiatives and programmes already under way or in the pipeline that aim to green urban areas and improve nature in cities. now let me give you a few examples of the various initiatives and programmes through which we already today promote and scale up urban green infrastructure. the best known one, the european green capital, this year lisbon and next year lahti, and the green leaf awards. they reward and disseminate best practice in urban green infrastructure. the green city tool offers guidance and advice, including on funding and capacity-building, and the soon-to-be-launched green city accord, which aims to support the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 by encouraging greater nature and biodiversity actions in cities. let me also mention the urban partnership on sustainable land use and nature-based solutions, which forms part of the urban agenda for the eu as well as the urban innovative actions programme, that supports the testing of innovative ideas in cities, including in the area of green infrastructure. the eu maes initiative, which provides technical guidance for cities through the mapping and assessment of ecosystems and their services; the horizon 2020 policy agenda for nature-based solutions and re-naturing cities, which aims to position the eu as a leader in innovating with nature; as well as the horizon europe mission on climate-neutral and smart cities, which will support 100 european cities in their systemic transformation towards climate neutrality and the biodiverse cities pilot project, which aims to enhance the use of green infrastructure in the urban context. more generally, eu funding for cities will provide important opportunities. member states and regions can support green infrastructure through the eu cohesion policy, and will continue to do so in the upcoming programming period for cohesion policy, including through instruments such as the life programme. let me recall that scaling up the deployment of green infrastructure plays a key part in the recent eu biodiversity strategy for 2030, which recognises the importance of green urban spaces and calls on european cities of at least 20 000 inhabitants to develop ambitious urban greening plans by the end of 2021. the biodiversity strategy also contains a roadmap for planting at least 3 billion additional trees in the eu by 2030, which will be part of our upcoming forest strategy. this will be particularly beneficial in cities, not least as it will help us to cool urban areas. no less than 11 000 natura 2000 sites designated under eu nature legislation are located within urban and peri-urban areas all over the european union. natura 2000 sites constitute the core of eu-level green infrastructure and often offer a strong basis for the development of urban greening plans. these may include measures to create biodiverse and accessible urban forest, parks and gardens, urban farms, green roofs and walls, tree-lined streets, urban meadows and urban hedges. this should help improve connections between green spaces, eliminate the use of pesticides in cities, and limit excessive mowing of urban green spaces and other biodiversity-harmful practices. such plans could mobilise policy, regulatory and financial tools, and the commission will support member states and local and regional authorities through technical guidance and will help to mobilise funding and organise capacity-building. the commission will also reflect this objective in the european climate pact. the process will be facilitated through the establishment of an eu urban greening platform in 2021 in close collaboration with cities and, of course, mayors. all these new commitments, both directly on urban greening but also the eu-wide commitments on nature protection and restoration, represent a major scaling-up of the deployment of green infrastructure across all of europe. as a key element of our biodiversity strategy for 2030, green cities remain high on our political agenda, and i am counting on your, as well as on member states’ and regions’, support to implement our ambitious goal to bring nature back to our cities. i look forward to working very closely with you on this important subject.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 17 september 2020. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the green spaces of european cities, towns and villages are important for our well-being and our economy. green spaces provide many services of health and economic value, promote biodiversity and allow those with less access to nature to enjoy nature. green neighborhoods are valuable and attractive. the design, construction and maintenance of green spaces also have a major national economic impact in europe. start hiring people who are hard to get. biodiversity is in crisis and climate change is getting worse. the systematic introduction of green built environments into cities and towns is urgently needed in europe. green built environments improve air quality, reduce noise and co2 levels, mitigate the effects of extreme weather events, protect biodiversity and encourage mobility. in view of the impact of these important green spaces, i propose to designate 2022 as the european green year. the theme of the year raises awareness of the importance of green spaces, highlights the economic and environmental benefits of green spaces and their role in improving quality of life and influences planning policy. the importance of green spaces and nearby forests has been recognised by many europeans during the corona crisis. with restaurants, museums, gyms, and other recreational facilities closed, for many, nature was one of the only ways to get around outside the home. the coronavirus has further highlighted the need to add green spaces to the urban environment where people can move freely and comfortably, taking care of physical distancing. the european green year 2022 is an initiative of even greater importance due to the coronavirus.
in writing. the green cities initiative is a necessity of our time. it contains many postulates for the development of infrastructure in cities in such a way as to improve the quality of life, the quality of air, reduce noise. the proportion of the urban population is growing and could reach 80% by 2020, and every year 430 000 people die prematurely in the eu from breathing polluted air. fortunately, we've seen a trend in the last few years of turning cities back to nature. one of the many european cities undergoing such a transformation is katowice, which is close to me. the city, which has been the cradle of poland's coal industry for years, has significantly improved the quality of life through infrastructure investments. for many years, they have been implementing a greening program, showing that they attach the same importance to providing clean air to their residents as they do to economic development. today we need green infrastructure, we need to use natural capital, but we cannot forget the important role of ordinary infrastructure that can improve the quality of life. that is why i tabled one amendment on district heating, which can make a significant contribution to improving air quality by reducing low emissions from homes; i know that this element is undervalued in many countries, but in my region of europe it has a significant impact.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the need for an immediate eu humanitarian response to the current situation in the moria refugee camp (2020/2781 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous word exchange at any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think i share the feelings of many of you watching the pictures from moria after the fire, but also before the fire. and one of the goals i’ve been working on is to find and present a new pact on migration and asylum to be able to come to a solution where we can agree on a common european migration and asylum. one important aim is: no more morias. (applause) we should not accept people living under these conditions. i have said many times here in parliament that the conditions in moria are unacceptable and now it has just got worse. the pictures and reports remind us that the people in moria are just like us – fathers, mothers, sisters and brothers, sons and daughters, people, men, women, old people, and all too many children who already had little and now have nothing. people running away from the fire, families torn apart, people sleeping on the burnt ground under the sky. what we know: on tuesday at midnight fires started in several parts of moria reception centre. a large part of the population ran into the surrounding areas and hills, others fled into the city of mytilene and the vicinity of the kara tepe centre. on wednesday two fires burnt down another part of the moria centre. in practice, the moria centre no longer exists. how these fires started is not yet clear, and i will not speculate. no one died or needed to go to hospital and that’s of course very good, luckily that’s the outcome. but 2 362 people are now in need of shelter, acute need. our first priority must be the children. all remaining 406 unaccompanied minors in moria have been transferred to the greek mainland with the commission’s help and financial support, and we did that the first day. i can today announce that the unaccompanied minors on the other islands will be moved to safety as well, and we have already started, as you know, the relocation of unaccompanied minors to other member states and now we will step up on this and continue this coordination and relocation of unaccompanied minors. but i’m also worried about other vulnerable people – families with small children, the elderly and pregnant women. i have recently written a letter together with the presidency and german minister horst seehofer to all member states arguing that we asked them to step in to do more voluntary relocation and more of this voluntary solidarity that is necessary now. our immediate focus right now is to provide food and shelter and to prevent suffering, and to support the greek authorities to this end. last week vice- president schinas travelled to greece to assess the situation. the commission has been in constant contact with the greek authorities and the german presidency. on 12 september, greece asked for assistance under the union civil protection mechanism. now we have 12 member states that have already offered support – shelter, water, sanitation and hygiene products and medical assistance. already more than 100 000 items have been included in this so far. our emergency response coordination centre (ercc) is coordinating this effort, facilitating delivery and co-financing transport. other member states are providing medical teams and shelter on a bilateral basis. reportedly, the support of food and water has been secured. seven hundred tents and seven rubb halls have now been installed to provide shelter which could house an estimated 5 000 people today. vulnerable people and women with children are receiving priority. at the beginning of this week, 800 people were living in these tents. progress is slow in part perhaps because all these people are being tested for covid-19 and those that are found positive are being kept in isolation, but also because people are afraid to enter the new tent centre. we have to remember that these people are in a very, very difficult situation. our agencies easo and frontex are on the ground offering support. for example, the offices of the greek asylum service in moria have been completely destroyed, but asylum interviews will resume in lesbos in the coming days. these emergency measures build on our efforts over the last six months. you have heard me before saying in the beginning of my mandate that the conditions in these overcrowded reception centres on the greek islands has been unacceptable. when we started, when i started and took office, there was more than 50 000 people living in the centres on the islands, and now there are half as many. in moria in six months we have gone from 25 000 people to 12 000 people. it’s still too many, it’s still unacceptable, but i’ve pushed for change and numbers are going down thanks to the efforts of the greek authorities and thanks to the efforts of the commission. we have put in place a programme as you know to give unaccompanied minors a new chance and a new life in europe, and one member state also decided to welcome sick children with their families. so we are now on track to relocate 2 000 unaccompanied teenagers and children together with their families, and now we could top up that with the new pledges from member states. every week a plane is leaving to a welcoming member state with these unaccompanied minors. in moria, we went from 1 200 unaccompanied minors to 400, and these 400 have now also been moved to safety as i just said. in the last six months, we have also made efforts to build more and better reception facilities. you know, moria has been destroyed and right now the acute task is to give shelter, food and medicine. a new permanent and proper centre is the priority, but there can be no more morias. we need a fresh start on migration and this is the right moment, as president von der leyen said yesterday in the state of the european union. in her inspiring speech, she said: ‘migration has always been a fact for europe, and will always be. throughout the centuries, it has defined our societies, enriched our cultures and shaped many of our lives, and this will always be the case.’ i could not agree more. that’s what i have always said: moria is not normal but migration is normal. it’s something that we can manage. moria is a leftover of the 2015 migration crisis, but times have changed. in 2015, almost two million people fled to europe and crossed our borders irregularly. now it’s 140 000 people irregularly arriving. in 2015, most refugees were from syria and 90% received refugee status. now the majority of irregular rivals – two thirds – are not entitled to international protection. the situation has changed, but the need for a common european policy and common european legislation to manage migration and asylum is still there. as president von der leyen said yesterday, we want a constructive approach towards migration because it will always be with us. we need a humane and human approach. that means saving lives at sea is not optional. a closer link between asylum and returns, fighting smugglers, working with external parties and creating legal pathways to europe. welcoming people who have the right to stay, and helping them to integrate and be a part of our society. solidarity with those countries who fulfil their legal and moral duties or are most under pressure. and with all member states taking their share of the responsibility. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the devastation on moria, as you said, is horrifying; thousands are homeless, they are scared and they have lost everything. the combination of a continued migration influx, a pandemic, and turkish sabre-rattling have made dealing with this emergency all the more challenging, and i really want to pay tribute to the greek authorities, who are performing miracles in exceptionally difficult circumstances. since last summer, as we heard, greece with the eu’s support has managed, incredibly, to nearly halve the inherited numbers in the camp, from 22 000 to 12 000, and such is the scale of the challenge. member states and the commission have also been very quick to step forward with relocation pledges and immediate solidarity. i think in this discussion, we have to reiterate that the point is greater. we simply cannot have ad-hoc solidarity anymore. we need permanent instruments where every state plays its part, where meaningful solidarity is more than just a buzzword, where responsibility is truly shared, where lives are saved, where we completely reform dublin, we improve our rate of return, we go after traffickers, we give people in need of protection a chance at a future without fear, where we strengthen our external border management, where we look at safe paths like resettlement that allow people a way out without getting on boats, where we invest in integration, where we end ghettos and tackle the causes fuelling extremism. as president von der leyen pointed out, moria cannot become yet another painful reminder of the (inaudible) member states to step (inaudible). three-year-old alan kurdi drowned ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the fire that has devastated the largest refugee camp on european soil is the latest chapter in the shame of europe. since 2013, the social democrats have warned that moria was hell. and he hasn't acted. building another moria cannot be the answer. the restoration of the dignity and rights of more than 12 000 human beings, many of them minors, requires the involvement of national governments. how far are some willing to go to turn the mediterranean into a graveyard? we are not aware that not only are lives being lost in the mediterranean, but that we are also losing the dignity of the european project itself. some people forget that the mediterranean is the cradle of law. and shelter is a fundamental right. they shamelessly disregard the memory of europe, that gesture of human solidarity as noble as asylum, offered by other countries to millions of european refugees who fled the wars that have so often devastated europe, and they jeopardize the credibility of our european project. for years the council has blocked a common response to replace emergency solutions. and now we hope that the european commission's proposal - which will be presented next week - will propose a mandatory sharing mechanism based on responsibility and solidarity, as well as humanitarian visas. you can't make good politics if you don't have a good heart. and to refuse to rescue people and to refuse to restore their dignity shows that we are not equipped to carry out this great responsibility that we have as europeans.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, thank you, madam commissioner, and no thanks to the council which is absent once again. i hear a lot these days that moria is a failure of policy. unfortunately it’s not a failure of policy, it is policy. this is what member state governments have been doing deliberately. so they actually think it’s a success because moria was supposed to be a deterrent and not a success, and therefore i would not want to improve the camps, we have to abolish camps. this is europe, we don’t keep people in camps. how can we with moral authority judge, criticise the united states where trump is building a wall, separating children from their parents, even forced sterilisation of women, if we let people drown, if we let them starve, if we let them live in the streets without even water, food and medicine? can we look ourselves in the eyes? now, this is a joint european responsibility, i’ll come back to that, but it’s also a greek responsibility. what happened to the hundreds of millions of euros that were allocated to the greek authorities earlier this year to improve reception conditions? how is it possible that amongst the 12 000 in moria there were 2 000 who had already obtained their status, but they were homeless and forced to live in moria? why did the greek authorities lock people up in the camp where there was corona, which is basically arbitrary detention, which is illegal. now, some governments have been very generous in taking in refugees, but some governments, including my own, have been heartless and stingy. but we also have to be honest colleagues because those governments cover parties which are epp, s&d, renew and the greens. and you know what, because they’re all scared of the people over there: the far right who are dehumanising human beings. but we should stop being scared and we should take our responsibility and listen to our citizens, because they are actually a lot less scared. listen to all those local authorities in all our countries who say we are ready, we can do it, yes we can we can do it, ‘wir schaffen das’. and one last sentence, president, read my lips: moria shall not be the model for the migration act that we will ... (the chair cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the moria camp fire is a symbol of the failure of the union's migration policies: 12,000 migrants were crammed into a place intended for only 3,000. paralysed by indecision, the european union has failed to prevent them from reaching greece, nor to give them a decent home. what is even worse is that the commission has not learnt the lessons. in her speech on 16 september, mrs von der leyen explained that we must now open our arms to new waves of migrants. it wants to repeal the dublin regulation to force european states to share out the hundreds of thousands of migrants who will arrive in greece and italy. as an immigration vacuum, we can't do better than that. and on top of that, it wants to create legal pathways for immigration, thus, in a way, inflicting a double penalty on european nations. the real solution lies, of course, at the opposite end of this sad programme of submission, namely in firm resistance to the smugglers and to the states, such as turkey, which facilitate our submersion. but the union will not be able to solve it, at least not as long as it is led by the trio merkel-macron-von der leyen. it is through strong political decisions and not through legal arguments that the peoples of europe will take their destiny into their own hands.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, actually in this debate, far too few of the people who are most affected by this situation get to be heard: the refugees themselves. our colleague erik marquardt is in moria right now and he wanted to change that. that is why i want all of you to listen to the testimony that zabi from afghanistan gave to him,(ms reintke plays an audio message from her mobile phone into the microphone)‘hi. my name is zabi i’m from afghanistan and i’m also one of the refugees who used to live in camp moria. now that they have left camp moria, these refugees have been sleeping on the ground. this is an extremely horrible and heart-breaking situation.’ (the president interrupted the speaker)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, if i must, i am going to read out the rest of the statement that zabi from afghanistan gave. he said:‘if you think that the refugees are not suffering here, please see if you can come here with your own families, with your beloved ones. cross the sea with a rubber boat and try to see if you can sleep on the ground with your beloved ones. try it without having enough food, water or some sort of shelter. how can this happen? honestly, we as refugees believed that human rights would be respected in europe. the fact that we are refugees still doesn’t mean that we should be a burden on anyone’s shoulders. no, we can work as long as there are opportunities provided for us. we know how to even offer help because we have been through so much in life. we had heart-breaking reasons for leaving our countries. we had heart breaking reasons for leaving our families and our beloved ones behind. i don’t really know what else to say because these words should be enough to wake up those who take decisions.’ (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, as you all know, moria was burned by islamist illegal immigrants, and the question is who coordinated them and with whom they collaborated; the ngos themselves, perhaps, may have sent group messages. in any case, the fire in moria comes to confirm our view that coexistence with illegal immigrants is not only impossible but dangerous. the solution we propose is simple and entirely feasible: we demand that our borders be sealed and that all of this be moved to closed structures on uninhabited islands, away from the turkish border. such islands are jaro and makronisos. they will remain there for up to six months until the deportation process is completed. and i am talking about deportation, because all of them are coming illegally from turkey, a country that is neither at war nor a dangerous country. they are therefore not entitled to asylum in greece. in conclusion, i would like to convey to you the fear with which the greeks wake up to the fact that they have a structure next door with thousands of people who are creating problems every day. and i want to ask you: is it your duty to protect greek and european taxpayers or illegal immigrants?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union has a duty to help the refugees, and i am sure that the european union will do so. the european union of 27 member states is shifting the responsibility for its deadlocked policy to the host countries. the care of asylum seekers is not the responsibility of greece or italy; it is a european responsibility, and the european union must assume its share of responsibility. you have created a form of informal prisons in greece, in flagrant violation of international refugee law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the greek islands are not left to the mercy of the european community. the solution to this humanitarian crisis is not another "moria". the european response is needed on the basis of genuine solidarity. it is imperative that an emergency european union summit be convened to resolve the humanitarian disaster. we need a viable new asylum and migration pact that is above all fair, based on mandatory, automatic relocation of asylum seekers, and with a fixed pre-determined rate of allocation of refugees to all eu member states.
not registered. madam president, in her speech mrs johansson deliberately concealed the fact that the fire in moria was not an accidental event but was an organized plan, according to the fire service of our country, greece, of at least 500 organized illegal immigrants. in fact, in a subsequent identification, two of them were arrested and charged, and they are seventeen years old. it is these lazy, supposedly, minors, who come in, who hide their age and who loot, rape, kill the greek citizen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mrs. johansson said moria was destroyed. what really destroyed moria? from the civilians who've lived there for years? from the people of lesvos? or from the illegal immigrants who, without asking anyone, have entered our country and do whatever they want? to end the fairy tale, we call for the immediate deportation of all illegal immigrants and ngos. and let's not forget that there were also messages from ngo officials inside moria, who were urging the illegal immigrants to start this insurrection and revolution. does the european parliament know about this? does the european parliament know about them? and one last question i have for all of you: why don't the illegal muslims go to the rich muslim countries like saudi arabia, qatar and come to europe, where they are not welcome?
madam president, the tragedy in moria is a crime committed in advance, and the european union and the greek governments are responsible for the policy that has created a pool of souls and allowed the humanitarian and health risks to people displaced by the wars and imperialist interventions carried out by the european union, nato and the united states to intensify. they have a firm aim of establishing a reception and identification centre by turning lesbos and other aegean islands into permanent concentration camps and, to achieve this, they are mobilizing the police and are intensifying the repression against refugees and islanders. despite the hypocritical concerns that seek to obscure the responsibilities of the european union, as long as the eu-turkey agreement and the dublin regulation remain in force, the problem will persist and grow. to shut down moria and the other island kyts permanently. the transport of refugees to the mainland should be organised immediately, in accordance with health protocols. ensure humane, safe and sanitary conditions for their temporary accommodation, with the possibility to apply for asylum after arriving in their final destination countries.
madam president, i hear a lot of words which to me are just words, because i have lived in practice what some of you here say about fascism and racism, i have experienced it. seven years ago i was illegally imprisoned by the personal intervention of the then prime minister of greece, antonis samaras. the audio document exists, it was heard inside the greek parliament. the prime minister of the country was speaking to a high judicial official named doyakos, telling him that the next day three sitting members of parliament would be taken into custody. their crime was that they were talking about greece, they were talking about christianity, at a time when we are all talking about the new order of things and illegal immigration. that was the price we paid to some who had put my country in the middle of the memoranda, had flattened and sold out greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, a few months later, while all these politicians were burying it, a request came from the prosecutor's office in my country, asking to look into the case and prosecute the then prime minister, which was not done, as he was covered by the entire political spectrum. i have heard the spokesman of the european people's party speak before and speak to us in fine terms about democracy, when in his own party there is this political thug, the then prime minister, who was not prosecuted because he was covered by the big guys who are covering for him. i am here to inform you that after seven years of persecution and all the consequences i have suffered, i will not back down and will continue to speak for my country and for christianity in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of gender equality in economic decision-making is more relevant today than ever. it is not just a question of social justice, but it is a vital element of the economic recovery that europe so badly needs. but it is clear that women will not automatically appear on boards and the national voluntary measures taken so far in some member states are not enough to make a difference in the european business community. it is indeed a paradox that, while official european data show that european companies perform better when there is a high representation of both sexes on boards, women still make up about a quarter of non-executive directors and only 8% are female ceos in the european union. this is why we must continue to press together, the european parliament and the commission, to overcome the impasse in the council and to pass immediately the proposed directive on the participation of women on company boards, which has been frozen since 2013.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of south africa. it strongly condemned the violations of cyprus's sovereign rights and explicitly stated that in the event of unilateral actions and provocations by turkey, the european union would use all the instruments available to it under the treaties. but, colleagues, let us be realistic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he's trying to change the agenda of the talks, adding demilitarization of the islands, while talking about grey zones again. just yesterday, in the presence of nato secretary-general stoltenberg, foreign minister mevlüt çavuşoğlu called cyprus, israel and syria criminal states, and said that the tension in the eastern mediterranean was caused, if possible, by greece sending warships to the turkish shelf. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. but to be united and strong, colleagues, we must have one voice and one policy against our neighbour when he threatens our union. president erdoğan is not shy of making generalizations in response to his revisionism. the sanctions against turkey should be described in detail and the way in which they should be applied immediately to the first act of aggression against a member state of the european union in breach of international law should be specified.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has shown europe's vulnerability, putting the health and lives of millions of citizens at risk. now we have to show that we've learned our lesson and not just in the health field. the challenge is to ensure a resilient digital environment that protects citizens' security, privacy, data, the production system and intellectual property, and that is able to cope with cyber threats. for too many years, member states have shown little ambition - as was the case with the nis directive, the european cybersecurity act or the management and deployment of 5g. harnessing the opportunities of the digital revolution while minimising its risks has become a priority for the new commission. in this regard, we welcome the decision to allocate at least 20% of the recovery fund to digital transformation. it is certainly a question of keeping our production system competitive, including the more traditional small and mediumsized enterprises, but at the same time guaranteeing freedom and technological sovereignty, which are essential prerequisites for our democracy.
mr. president, today is a very important day for me. the european council has also expressed its concern at the situation in cyprus and the fact that the greek government has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in cyprus is resolved. the greek people, mr michel, who see turkish warplanes violating greek airspace every day, turkish frigates sailing illegally in greek waters and turkish research vessels graying provocatively in greek waters. and while all this is happening, and we are waiting for sanctions to be imposed on turkey, we see the european union equating the perpetrator with the victim and calling for dialogue. at the same time, of course, the council, in a provocative double standard, is imposing direct sanctions on belarus. in conclusion, i would like to say that i fully understand the economic and historical relations between germany and turkey, but i consider it unacceptable that these relations not only influence the policy of the union but also endanger the security of the member states. we call for the immediate imposition of sanctions on turkey.
mr president, what is happening in nagorno-karabakh at the moment is the continuation of the genocide of the armenians by the bloodthirsty turks. the question i have to ask the european parliament and mr borrell is this: how long will the european parliament tolerate this unacceptable attitude of turkey? he's done it consistently, he's done it all the time. and as long as i have been a member of the european parliament, at least for the last 16 months, i have only heard talk about turkey and have not seen any action. we see that they want to send illegal troops and weapons to azerbaijan at this time in order to harm the civilian population and to strike at the armenians, who are right on their side. and here we have to figure out who are the attackers and who are the defenders, because we can't simulate them. some attack without cause, and others try to survive and defend themselves. we must therefore examine the situation. i have to propose to the european parliament that it immediately impose harsh sanctions on turkey and azerbaijan and that the european union and the european parliament provide immediate assistance to the people of armenia, both in terms of military equipment and financial aid. finally, i would like to say that i have already declared my desire to join the efforts of the armenian army and to volunteer to fight the enemy, the turks.
mr president, just a few minutes ago a historic decision was announced by the greek judiciary regarding the neo-nazi party golden dawn. the condemnation of the fascist golden dawn as a criminal organization is a victory for democracy itself. at the crucial moment, my party, new democracy, with the former prime minister of greece, antonis samaras, had the courage and found a way to confront golden dawn, paving the way for justice to do its job today. europe in the past was slow to find the courage and the means to confront hitler and the result was the holocaust of the jews. and now, while the international community as a whole is calling for a ceasefire in nagorno karabakh, only erdogan is declaring that he will support the azerbaijanis against the armenians in any way possible. and i ask, mr borrell, what does he mean by "in every possible way" when it is spoken by the president of a country that does not even recognize the atrocity and the horrible crime against humanity that the armenian genocide is? so let us not repeat the mistakes of the past, let us finally find the courage and the way to confront erdogan before it is too late.
mr president, the new digital technologies and artificial intelligence are modern ways of exploiting the profits of monopolies. the european groups are in a fierce battle with others - mainly chinese and american - for market dominance in the uncertain terrain of the capitalist crisis. the european monopolies are being rewarded with tens of billions of euros from the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework, all of which are money from the people's labour, to make the monopolies profitable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the increasing censorship of posts with or without algorithms against alleged radicalisation proves that the status of new technologies is dictated by the interests of the owners, that is, by the large groups that hoard. the report on the prevention of military conflicts is not convincing, because it is admitted that new types of weapons systems are already being used by nato and the european union and that imperialist interventions are being made against the peoples to serve their geopolitical interests, while the reports prepare the ground for the monopolies to extract oil in any case. in the race for ruthless capitalist profit, great technological achievements are turned into fetters, into increases in unemployment, insecurity and exploitation of workers, such as teleworking. the euro-package, the mass collection, storage, processing and trading of personal data, is taking off. the only way to achieve full employment is through socialist production relations, free of exploitation, monopolies and capitalist profiteering.
mr president, this house has supported the european green deal and the climate law by a large majority. the need and opportunity for a green transition to a new, resilient and equitable model of production and consumption. and the day has come, today, when we must vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy. if the objectives of the european green deal are not incorporated in it, what kind of transition are we talking about? how do we protect the most vulnerable to the climate crisis, the farmers? we are simply closing the door on any hope our farmers have of living a decent life by their profession? what chance do we have for sustainable, healthy and resilient food systems? what alternative do we have left to prevent catastrophic climate change and rapid biodiversity loss? what chance do europe's rural areas have of remaining attractive and human? the procedure, ladies and gentlemen, by which we are today deciding on a third of the european budget and the future of millions of people is unacceptable. we have time to work towards a genuinely new and fair common agricultural policy, fit for the 21st century, and to demand open and genuine consultations on the national strategic plans in our countries. for greece, the new cap and its full link with the biodiversity directive and the farm to fork strategy represents a unique opportunity to finally exploit its exceptional comparative advantages in producing quality and healthy food with respect for people and the environment. let's get this right.
the cap is a key pillar of the european union's and governments' anti-people strategy. the focus of the new strategy for the period 2021-2027 is to align with the european union's strategic priorities for the concentration of production through various forms: green development under the green deal, digitalisation, development of intelligent precision agriculture. these are terms and conditions aimed at increasing the productivity of labour, which the european union monopolies exploit in capitalism in order to benefit from their competition with other powers, such as the united states of america and brazil. the price will be paid, as always, by the struggling farmers who see their crops and livestock lost to natural disasters due to government neglect; who are forced to sell their products at below cost prices to big merchants and large food and processing companies and who are waiting for subsidies and cap-type schemes to ensure the next year. the path of capitalist development and competitiveness, the cap and government policy are aggravating and perpetuating the problems of small and mediumsized farmers. the solution lies in the organized struggle of the organic farmers - together with the workers - against their common opponent: the european union, the bourgeois governments and the monopolies; with the aim of guaranteed prices that guarantee them a decent income for the supply of quality and cheap agricultural products for the popular family.
mr president, unfortunately our farmers have fallen victim to the bureaucracy and hypocrisy of brussels. i am speaking of hypocrisy because, while the union has a series of outrageous demands on our producers to get the aid, through the agreements it signs with third countries it fills european shelves and feeds greek and european consumers with lemons and melons from turkey, olive oil from tunisia, potatoes from egypt, honey from china and much more. the main problem with imported products is that they are a health bomb, since there is no control in the production process from third countries. in short, who and under what conditions will produce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. so if you want to support greek and european farmers in practice, reduce imports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work and my colleagues for the excellent cooperation. today's vote on this report on promoting gender equality in the european union's foreign and security policy coincides with the 20th anniversary of the historic adoption of un resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. twenty years later, despite the progress achieved, women still suffer from significant inequalities and injustices. they continue to be under-represented in foreign policy, particularly in positions of responsibility and decision-making, and thus weaken our ability to secure sustainable peace and build more resilient societies. this progressive report will be our response as the european parliament to promoting equality in european foreign policy by strengthening equal representation, defending women's rights and securing adequate financial resources for this purpose. by mainstreaming the gender dimension in the european union's migration and trade policy, by combating trafficking, which particularly affects women and children, by ensuring the european union's continued cooperation and effective support to women's organisations and human rights defenders, by actively supporting sexual and reproductive health in third countries, by promoting the active participation of women in peace processes and by improving the framework for supporting women in the new gap iii action plan on equality. for us these are not just questions of justice, but crucial factors for a world of greater security, solidarity and democracy.
in writing. unfortunately, among the multiple challenges due to the pandemic, we are also called upon to manage issues concerning the balance between the necessary preventive measures, with the necessary legal safeguarding of the democratic rights of citizens. at the plenary session of 17 april 2020, in the ep resolution on coordinated eu action to combat the pandemic and its consequences, we condemned as totally incompatible with european values some of the emergency measures taken by some member states. in the context of the work of the 130th meeting of the ministers of foreign affairs of the council of europe member states, a declaration on the defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in times of pandemic, the declaration of athens, was adopted on 4 november 2020. in it, the council of europe recognised the dramatic consequences of the pandemic, which 'in many cases' exceeded the obvious health and economic challenges, putting at risk values such as the rule of law, fundamental rights, but also democracy itself. the respect for these ancient values is not to be undermined by the member states, and greece, which gave birth to democracy, could only be a pioneer in this. so i urge you not to allow the republic to be quarantined!
mr president, intensive care units throughout the european union are in the red. because of the tragic shortages, doctors are once again called upon to decide who lives and who dies. the bourgeois governments and the european union are defending commodity health and its competitive functioning for the benefit of the groups, which has cost hundreds of thousands of lives. your celebrations for the vaccine cannot hide the fierce competition of pharmaceutical companies, which are incompatible with the social good of health and reserve contract terms unknown and dangerous to the people. you give 1.7 trillion euros to groups and banks, but for health you only provide 9 billion euros, which will not be allocated to public structures either, but will be allocated for further commercialization and public-private partnerships, while the people will pay dearly. here and now, private clinics should be inspected and incorporated into the national plan without compensation. to provide surgeries, tests and examinations for all diseases. mass recruitment of health workers, opening of intensive care units and implementation of disease prevention measures in workplaces, nursing homes and public transport.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'closed circuit' to cover the whole of the electrical network. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, climate neutrality requires innovation at all levels and not just in technology. the climate law we recently passed is an example of regulatory and policy innovation. innovation, planning and determination are essential for a green transition in the financial sector as well. with the investment plan for a sustainable europe, and especially in view of the upcoming review of the strategy for sustainable finance, we are laying the foundations for the success of the european green deal and the building of a socially, economically and environmentally resilient europe. with a view to implementing the agreement on the multiannual financial framework reached yesterday, we must ensure that public money produces public goods and that it promotes and does not undermine public health, social cohesion and climate security. it is time to integrate these objectives into the core of the financial sector. however, the taxonomy, the no-harm principle and the green bond framework are the tools that should guide not only private but also public investment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health and safety of workers at work, which is the subject of a proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report. ladies and gentlemen, time is not on our side and we must ensure that from now on every euro will be a 'green' euro and no euro will be a 'black' euro. thank you very much, thank you colleagues for your cooperation.
mr president, turkey has taken courage and behaved in this way, taking advantage of the passive attitude of a decadent europe which does not even dare to react. we see turkey all these years following the same foreign policy and here it is not a question of erdoğan, but it is the same, the unified foreign policy of turkey. so as long as europe is subjugated and accepts what the turks are doing, expect nothing else. as for the sanctions you are talking about, it is not possible to stop erdoğan and turkey by means of a few signatures, which might be collected if everyone agrees. the solution to stop turkey from behaving like this is the immediate cessation of funding, the immediate cessation of the pre-accession talks that are taking place and the immediate withdrawal of the occupying troops from our occupied cyprus. it's the only way the turks can understand. i also cannot understand how it is possible for a turkey which is economically collapsing to be supported by the european union and germany in particular. we see that the money given to turkey in recent times is incredible and a state which would have collapsed, in fact, you are maintaining it in order to stay alive and then challenge you. and, in conclusion, i want to show a picture showing here the visit to warsaw of tayyip erdoğan. next to him is a particular person. this person's name is kenan akin. he's the man who killed the cypriot salmon in 1996. there is an international arrest warrant for this gentleman, which is not being executed, in violation of all international rules, and you will now go to (the president takes the floor from the speaker) and effectively silence him. this is unacceptable and only shows the extent of the hypocrisy of the humanitarian sector (the president takes the floor). this is unacceptable.
madam president, the turkish president's recent and highly provocative actions, with his illegal attempt to open up and colonize varosha, are the final straw. this new and direct challenge by turkey is a flagrant violation of international law and is directed against the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus, the decisions of the united nations, and is an aggressive challenge to the european union. the so-called europeanism of erdoğan in the last few days, because of the european council meeting in december, is pretentious and should not fool us. if he really wanted to follow a western path he would have already reversed his decision to convert hagia sophia into a mosque, he would have already suspended and withdrawn oruç reis from the aegean and suspended the illegal navtex, he would have apologized to european leaders for their offensive characterizations and, of course, much more he would not have dared to celebrate the fiesta in varos and even to speak about two states in cyprus. the toleration of such provocative statements is a legitimization of the occupation and therefore a loss of european territory, because cyprus has been fully integrated into the european union. because, well, none of this has done enough with erdoğan's hypocrisy. the council is due to decide on 11 december on tough sanctions against turkey, an arms embargo and even the termination of the customs union. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people.
in writing. the recent provocations by turkey in varosha, accompanied by festive events, did not come as a thunder in the air. it is the continuation of turkey's recent, escalating, multiple, illegal actions in the eastern mediterranean, which, in addition to a show of force, are aimed at creating deeds for its benefit. and unfortunately, these objectives are so far being achieved. the turkish challenges and violations of international law are not directed simply at eu member states, but at europe itself, with the aim of undermining its prestige, power and role. the opportunities given to turkey to comply with the decisions of the summit were apparently perceived by erdoğan as weakness and laziness. turkey has taken advantage of the eu's tolerance and has taken further unacceptable, provocative actions. if we continue in this pattern, it is certain that turkey will not be aware. on the contrary, we will encourage erdoğan to continue his destabilising tactics. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. let varosha be the beginning of the end of europe's recklessness towards turkey.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing multiple security challenges and turkey has a key role to play. some of these are the result of our past indecision, such as our inability to deal with the threat of terrorism and our uneven relations with states like turkey. unfortunately, our procrastination as a european parliament in both these areas is now threatening to explode in front of us with a major impact on the security of the citizens of the european union. our tolerance of the erdoğan government's proven ties to isis pockets for smuggling oil in the past has gone unanswered. turkey's cooperation with extremist jihadists in syria, their training and transport as mercenaries to libya and nagorno karabakh also went unanswered. erdoğan's manipulation of the refugee issue, primarily to collect funds and pressure europe to serve his own interests, not only met with a lukewarm reaction, but was also accepted to some extent. but now we are faced with the consequences of our indecision, as isis fighters have been arrested by the greek authorities after crossing from turkey. we are witnessing the incitement of religious tensions in the muslim communities of france at the instigation of erdoğan. the european union has unfortunately, as the very continuing provocative attitude of turkey shows, been all wishful thinking, without addressing the root of the problem. turkey and erdoğan are threatening the security of our union's member states and our citizens, and the european council must assume its historic responsibility by taking radical decisions and activating sanctions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe cannot remain a spectator. the european union is the crown of stability and justice and this must be stated explicitly everywhere.
madam president, the reactionary polish government is repressing the demonstrations that have broken out in the country calling for the non-implementation of the unacceptable decision of the constitutional court banning all abortion. it is not the only government, dozens of countries, including the united states, have signed such a shameful anti-abortion declaration. this is another blow to the rights of young women and couples. the polish government's aim is a total ban, pushing more women to illegal abortion, promoting the commercialisation of health, reinforcing anachronistic views on the role of women. the european union has also been a model country in aligning itself with the anti-people directives on the commercialisation of health, which aim to completely level the rights of women, the whole working-class family, and to criminalise support for socialist achievements, which laid the foundations for the achievement of gender equality in social life. on this occasion, we would like to point out that the socialist countries, including poland, saved thousands of young women when abortion was banned in almost all the capitalist countries of europe. the fight for the modern rights of workers and women in the working class must be strengthened. the alleged appeal to respect for human rights, also in the case of poland, is activating new anti-people mechanisms that are here to stay, based on competition within the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of pregnant women is not affected by the use of contraceptives, and that the health of pregnant women is not affected by the use of contraceptives.
madam president, madam dalli, ladies and gentlemen, today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women and i really want to take this opportunity to remind everyone that the fight against violence and inequality never stops. the safeguarding of equality, freedom and rights is a moral and value pillar of the european union. these values are also served by the new strategy for the equality of lgbtiq and non-binary people. for many years, as europe and as states, we have been blind to this social group and have allowed extremist elements to violate the rule of law and to carry out aggressive actions. whether we agree or disagree with the existence of these individuals, we must not allow our society to slip into violence and the violation of people's rights to self-determination. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this is the essence of europe. everyone in the european union should feel safe and free without fear of discrimination, in particular on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or gender characteristics. i cannot deny that in recent years there has been progress in the european union in terms of equality for lgbt people, but discrimination against them still persists. this is also shown by the survey of the fundamental rights agency of the european union conducted in 2019. i hope that with this new strategy the member states will create national strategies and enable these people to live without fear.
mr president, intensive care units are filling up to the brim, there are perpetuating criminal gaps in beds and staff, and the greek government on the one hand is making outrageous comparisons of deaths by country, is provocatively claiming that if intensive care units are increased, deaths will increase, and is cutting health funding by 600 million. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not compromised. vaccines, provided they are safe and effective, will help to combat the pandemic. but that doesn't erase the huge gaps in public health systems, from the eu's strategy of privatizing hospitals and commodifying health that has led to millions of deaths. at the same time, pharmaceutical companies and capitalist states are engaged in a race for the vaccine-commodity. the agreements contain unknown and dangerous terms for the peoples. patents hide valuable information, depriving the timely exchange of scientific data, the necessary interdisciplinary cooperation that could improve the effectiveness and safety and speed up the availability of vaccines. the people must know. we therefore asked the commission to disclose the terms of the contracts. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, and that the european union is not left to its own devices. the people of europe should demand that the vaccine be made available free of charge to all without discrimination or categorization on the basis of its price. prioritize the provision of private clinics free of charge and the armoring of public health systems. the equipment and staffing of these institutions with permanent staff with decent salaries to be able to cope with both permanent and emergency situations.
mr president, your strategy offers no escape from the pressing impasse of self-employment with no or little staff. your design concerns the largest enterprises whose activities are either linked to business groups or play a significant role in high-risk business activities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. the first is, for you, simply a structural problem from the point of view of social cohesion. the self-employed, like the wage-earners, will pay the price of a strategy that puts them in a lock-up, deprives them of basic rights and social services, which are constantly degraded and commodified in the name of the competitiveness of national capitalist economies and the eurozone. the communist party of greece is putting forward specific proposals to help them: an extension of the tax-free threshold, a reduction in their taxation, the cancellation of debts. the prospect lies in joint action and alliance with the working people in each country to overturn this policy, bringing the needs of the people to the fore with another organization of the economy and society.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the time has come to vote on the crucial transitional regulation of the common agricultural policy, to give farmers, small and mediumsized agri-food businesses and rural areas in europe the security and stability they need and to which they are entitled. today we are securing the existing support framework for the next two years, and it is strengthened. we are integrating the 2021 and 2022 recovery fund resources into the rural development programmes to support the green and digital transition of the agri-food sector with a focus on young farmers. we continue to support farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, which are affected by the pandemic. we are maintaining an increased budget for the smaller aegean islands and introducing the necessary arrangements to support olive oil and table olives, fruit and vegetables and wine. but most importantly, with our vote today we are giving time for the effective preparation of the national cap strategic plans after 2022, while demanding a real open consultation with everyone, with everyone involved on the way to the transition to 2030 and 2050. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity and the obligation to stand with those who are most economically vulnerable to the climate crisis, who are none other than farmers. and that means: a decent income, a new sustainable and equitable model of production and consumption, quality healthy and sustainable food for citizens, measures to combat biodiversity loss and finally attractive, vibrant, thriving rural areas.
madam president, commissioner ferreira, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate everyone on the excellent work they have done in drawing up this text, which has contributed to the fact that we are now making great progress in terms of cohesion and the recovery of the european union. react-eu is an initiative that will literally help the recovery and cohesion of the regions. the additional resources in the form of 'new money' to be made available through the funds give member states a choice in allocating funds regardless of economic sector and thus offer a substantial and targeted boost to businesses and workers. it is important to have direct regional funding to launch investments to maintain and create jobs, strengthen health care systems at all levels, and provide working capital and support for investment in small and medium-sized enterprises. let us not forget that, in addition to the pandemic, we also had a decade-long economic crisis, which hit many member states, especially greece, and a generation of young people has now been lost from the productive web, as they were also affected by high unemployment rates. we will try not to lose another generation of young people with dreams and creativity. solidarity and the rule of law are not negotiable products, but are part of the dna of europe's very existence from the renaissance and the enlightenment to the present day. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i am very pleased that the final text, as it has been drafted, is actually supporting the economic and social fabric of our regions.
mr president, mr roth, mr schmit, cedefop estimates that jobs requiring mid-level qualifications will continue to account for the largest share of all jobs in the new era of the green deal and digital transformation. in this context, the draft resolution on vocational education and training rightly stresses the urgent need to improve and modernise the quality of vocational education and training in order to meet the new challenges. we need better coordination with traditional vocational training systems, better linkages with the corresponding systems in other european union countries, more emphasis on the necessary horizontal skills, but also the active involvement of the social partners in the design of programmes. clear personal targets for the employment rate of graduates are also necessary, together with systematic monitoring of their results. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. in greece, for example, only 29% of 16-18 year olds are enrolled in upper secondary vocational education programmes, compared with 49% of the european union average. to this end, the exploitation of innovative practices and the optimal use of apprenticeship, mobility and exchange programmes such as erasmus pro are particularly important.
madam president, the expectations of the new democracy government and the other bourgeois parties for a strong response from the european union to the aggression of the turkish bourgeoisie have been flatly refuted. in the context of the inter-bourgeois confrontations and compromises expressed in the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework, and because of the deep capitalist crisis, the table of co-operation is also being turned in the aegean and the eastern mediterranean, with the responsibility of the greek bourgeoisie and with a eurasian umbrella. this strategy, which is dangerous for the people and the sovereign rights of the country, is determined by the economic, military and political relations of the european union with turkey and the ensuring of nato cohesion in the competition with russia. the us sanctions against turkey, with which it maintains strategic relations, are also in this context and on this basis it constantly raises the issues of disputed borders and waters in the aegean and the cypriot eez. the interventions of the usa, nato and the european union are worsening the situation in the region and the peoples are being called upon to trust in their own struggle to disengage from the plans of capital and the imperialist centres.
in writing. the recent summit condemned yet another unilateral action by turkey in varos, adding to the long list of provocative actions that violate the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, as well as international law. the eu is proving to be timid and inadequate in its immediate extension of sanctions. by giving an extension until march 2021 to assess our relationship with turkey as a whole, the eu is risking its geopolitical credibility. as greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis pointed out, the sanctions are not an end in themselves. their threat is a tool to change turkey's behavior. following the us sanctions, mr erdogan asked mr michel to open a 'new page' with the eu and restart talks on the basis of common interests. i would remind you, mr borrell, that, in the light of the conclusions, a precondition for a 'positive agenda' with turkey is its readiness to resolve disputes through dialogue, in accordance with international law. greece has demonstrated its willingness to have limited dialogue if there is a de-escalation with 'consistency and continuity'. if turkey does not refrain from such activities, then the eu's response can only be one: no dialogue with turkey until march.
in writing. there is no doubt that the impact of the pandemic has been disproportionately hard on women, not only because it has exposed existing structural inequalities, but also because it has exacerbated them. according to eige, at the current rate it will take 60 years to achieve full equality in the eu. we do not want, and cannot accept, to wait another 60 years to integrate the gender dimension into all eu policies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i am particularly pleased and i consider it a great success that the resolution calls for 'the creation of a special council composition where ministers will meet on gender equality', something i have been personally fighting for since april, both with targeted amendments that i have tabled and which have already been adopted by the european parliament's plenary, and with my speeches in the femm committee. we will therefore be able to discuss and unblock important gender equality files, such as the istanbul convention on combating gender-based violence, the directive on women on boards of directors, and the directive on combating discrimination. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioner, we are looking forward with great anticipation to the new commission proposals for the revision of the adaptation strategy in the face of the climate crisis, which is endangering the continuity of human civilization. it is now deadly clear that our bad practices have crossed the planetary boundary. today we are already in a different world, 1.2 degrees celsius warmer, a world that in the best case of successful global cooperation will be at least 1.5 degrees warmer. when we consider that this was precisely the temperature difference between the ice age and our own, that allowed human civilization to flourish, we understand how gigantic the task of adaptation is. we have no choice but to take bold adaptation measures now to address the inevitable climate impacts for their social, economic and environmental costs. the new adaptation strategy must be very ambitious. social cohesion, a clear distinction between adaptation and mitigation investments, the gender dimension, climate refugees, the creation of a loss-and-loss mechanism, the strengthening of the resilience of island regions are thematic areas that should guide the new strategy. enhanced governance of adaptation at both european union and member state and local government level, as outlined in parliament's proposal for climate legislation, should include legally binding targets. for us, adaptation doesn't mean relying on natural selection for survival of the fittest. instead, it is an opportunity to take effective and immediate action to build a more resilient and just society. we expect the commission to respond to our call and to be even more ambitious than it has been in the european green deal.
