on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i’m very happy that croatia is taking its first ever presidency and i wish you a lot of success for it and also many happy returns. this presidency comes at a very crucial moment, when the new parliament and the new commission will enter into full legislation mode and make sure to make all the promises that were given throughout the election campaign and afterwards reality. there is lots to do. we face a huge climate crisis that impacts everyone and we need to act now, both at eu level and also in the member states. the european commission has already made some promises in that regard, which we applaud, but it also needs the member states and too many of them have been blocking environmental progress in the past. this needs to change. we need the member states along, active and pushing when it comes to climate action. it will be your task to ensure this, and that is a big responsibility as well. to fill this role, we also encourage you and your government to implement your own fair and ecological transition in croatia. another area where we would like to see more action from the member states is rule of law and human rights, and i’m very glad that you mentioned that. it needs some more peer pressure from governments to bring member states back on track. rule of law, fundamental rights and freedoms are pillars of the european union and should not be weakened and that goes for all member states. here, prime minister, i’m concerned about the reports about the croatian police disregarding international law and procedures in their treatment of refugees and migrants. there are even reports of systematic violence and abuse, such as destruction of property, humiliation, beatings and even the use of firearms. these abuses have been repeatedly pointed out by ngos and have been widely reported in the media, but the croatian government has so far neither stopped nor investigated those reports. prime minister, that is not acceptable in any eu country, but in any country anywhere, refugee rights are human rights, and i urge you to ensure that those rights are being respected. the croatian borders are european borders and what happens there is a responsibility for all of us, so we will not turn a blind eye. croatia is a beautiful country and the youngest member of our family. this presidency is a big chance for your country and your government to show the rest of europe what your visions and your ideas for our common future are, but the presidency will also turn a spotlight on croatia and how much your global words are met with local action, both on human rights as well as on climate justice. you can count on our support for bringing forward climate justice, social equality and rule of law, but you can also count on us to call out any human rights violation, no matter where, no matter by what government.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr prime minister plenković, our debate today is in a way a continuation of the first exchanges we had in zagreb when you hosted the conference of presidents at the beginning of december. today you are presenting the three priorities of the croatian presidency, but beyond the hope they can legitimately inspire in you, they can also carry a real risk: the risk of three leaks forward. firstly, as regards enlargement, you tell us that you want to speed up the accession processes of north macedonia and albania, whereas everyone is well aware of the truth, namely that these countries, although they are allies and friends with whom we must work, are still today largely corrupt and largely infested with the various islamist currents, whether saudi or turkish, and that, of course, no conditions are met today for them to join the european union today. in november, emmanuel macron opposed a french veto and jean-claude juncker called it a historic mistake. and then, after the bravado, we have the surrender and unfortunately emmanuel macron explains to us that he is ready to welcome successively albania, north macedonia, and probably tomorrow also bosnia and kosovo. all this, the fact of going from 27 to 29, perhaps from 29 to 31 the day after tomorrow, will not end up strengthening the european union but will weaken it even more. you also mentioned the multiannual financial framework. in a few days, with brexit, the european union will lose more than 10% of its population. this should lead us to refocus on areas where it is useful to organise cooperation between nations at continental level, respecting the prerogatives of nation states, and not to embark on a budgetary leap forward, that is to say, to go further and further into ever heavier contributions where everything would be directed to brussels. some in this house are talking about the possibility of the european union's own resources: this would be the first practical step towards a european tax system, which is obviously very bad news for our taxpayers, who will have to pay more and more in return for less and less. you also mention the conference on the future of europe. it should be a real debate, a debate without taboos on the functioning and the direction of the european union, but i am afraid that some people want to use it only to go even further in integration, to call into question the principle of unanimous decisions in order to move to qualified majority voting, that is to say, to go even further in what is not working. it is clear that the european union as it stands today is incapable of protecting its borders against immigration, incapable of protecting itself economically against the great world powers, powerless also on the international scene, absent in libya, absent in syria, absent in iraq or iran. today we are finally limiting ourselves to giving lessons on human rights to the world and lessons on the rule of law to our member states. is that satisfactory? of course not. i'm not going to. and then there is brexit. it is a real challenge: boris johnson will defend british interests on foot and he will negotiate trade deals with the whole world. we must not accept that tomorrow the united kingdom will become a kind of gateway for all products, and therefore unfair competition, on the european market. we must of course treat the united kingdom with respect, since it is a great friend, ally and neighbour, but we must defend our interests, that is to say, be able at last to establish real economic protections; this is what the nations are waiting for.
mr president, after six and a half years of membership, the republic of croatia is holding the presidency of the council of the european union for the first time. the eu's accession made it clear that we were unprepared as a country in many respects and that the path of transformation to a developed democracy that upholds democratic principles, the rule of law and a market economy was not complete. it has been a challenging six and a half years, not only for croatia, but also for the european union. the migrant crisis has greatly intensified the social unrest that resulted from the severe financial crisis, and the disparities in the member states' development levels remain wide. the political picture of the union is changing, and brexit has shown us that if we continue to turn our heads away from the problem, its territorial scope can easily change. the fact is that new and smaller members are more likely to put some of their priorities on the presidency's agenda in less challenging times, when the main issues of the union have been resolved, which is unfortunately not the case now. but croatia has also shown throughout its history that it is ready to turn its back on europe in challenging times. i expect the croatian government to make good use of these six months, not in a revisionist tone, but in order to reform european instruments, refresh outdated european policies and better position croatia in the european union. although it used to listen too much to the instructions of others and ignored the fact that it is a full member that should have an authentic policy, croatia now has the opportunity to show that it is ambitious, that it has a vision and that it is ready to lead europe in certain areas. i hope the government of the republic of croatia will take this opportunity. mr president of the croatian government, i wish you, your ministers and all those involved in the croatian presidency project every success in the next six months.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not before turning our attention to the new year and the tasks of the croatian presidency, i should like to refer briefly to the conflict between iran and the united states, which i have already mentioned. it is good that the european foreign ministers reaffirmed last week that they will continue to stand by the nuclear agreement with iran. this is one of the great diplomatic successes of the recent past. the withdrawal of the united states from these agreements a year and a half ago has triggered an escalation in the gulf region which unfortunately brings us back to the abyss of a major war. in this situation, the eu must do everything in its power to prevent this threatened war as a mediator, defending international law and human rights without any ifs and buts and without false allegiance. the only obedience that is required is to peace and international law. the european union must not allow the use of european military bases for the purpose of threatening war, and european soldiers must be withdrawn from the region. but, mr prime minister, 2020 will be a landmark year for the eu. you mentioned the digital revolution. and then there's climate change, and i'd like to say: we are facing the greatest social challenge since the industrial revolution. the only way to make this transformation socially just and democratic is to have the financial means to do so. so let's talk about the mfr. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the cuts in cohesion policy, the cuts in cohesion policy in favour of armaments and militarisation, i think my group considers them to be fundamentally wrong. if we want europe to grow together economically and socially, we must also invest in the regions, we must also invest in the social cohesion of our european society. the eu must respect law and human rights even within its own borders. unfortunately, we are constantly receiving reports of serious human rights violations at the external borders of the european union, but also at the croatian borders. in this respect, your government has an exemplary duty to work for a reform of european migration policy in the next six months, in accordance with human rights and the fundamental right to asylum. i wish you success in this and in your other endeavours.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is facing an extremely demanding financial situation. the multiannual financial framework has so far enabled smaller countries like the republic of croatia to obtain some compensation for the loss in the economy, which in the republic of croatia, for example, is eur 4.5 billion from the entry into agriculture alone, through access to funds, so croatia was in the plus compared to the net profit or net payment of eur 1 700 000 000. we are now approaching a situation where the united kingdom is leaving the european union, and the united kingdom has paid out 69 billion euros more in the last ten years alone than it has withdrawn. in the enlargement situation that we are about to face, we will be welcoming back into the european union countries that are economically weaker, and that will also need help. a different method of financing, i.e. an increase in the amount to be paid by economically developed countries, should be considered.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would first of all like to thank all the leaders of the political groups in the european parliament for their reactions to the presentation of the programme of the croatian presidency. i will make a few points on some of the items you have raised. first of all, i very much look forward to working in synergy with you, ursula, and with your commission. we said in zagreb that your first months will be efficient as possible. we in the council will help you to be propulsive and pass the proposed legislation as much as we can. in that respect, since migration was mentioned, we look forward to the new initiatives regarding the dublin package. i think there is a lot of expectation that we will finally be able to create a balance between responsibility and solidarity, but in an upgraded and refurbished fashion. when it comes to schengen and the euro, which you mentioned, this is clearly a little bit of a croatian hat. i deliberately didn’t want to mention them at the beginning, but it’s true. my government has two major objectives. one is to join the schengen area – i thank the juncker commission for the green light when it comes to technical conditions and ursula von der leyen’s commission for the forwarding of the proposal to the council – and, after our presidency, we will continue to push for that objective. on the strategy to adopt the euro, we are in the process of working and fulfilling the action plan for the exchange rate mechanism too. we intend to complete this exercise – just – at the end of our presidency and then a decision is at the eurogroup level. when it comes to multilateralism and humanitarian aspects, as well as the social pillar, which were mentioned by ms garcía pérez, i think that, when you read the entire programme carefully – and it has been distributed to all of you – you will see a lot on social inclusion, equality and non—discrimination. this is an integrative part of our programme and, when it comes to migration and the protection of the croatian border, let me be very clear on this. the migratory and refugee crisis of 2015 and 2016 has, without any doubt, after the fall of the berlin wall, been the most important phenomenon that has occurred and had political ramifications, not only on the political debate of the eu institutions, but also on the national debates and policies in all of our countries. therefore, the solution to this issue is to strengthen the external border of the european union. we should do this with a comprehensive set of tools – foreign policy, security, development, trade, state—building, humanitarian aid – in all the crisis areas around the world as much as we can, but we must also strengthen the external border, notably the one between greece and turkey. this is where the problem on the eastern mediterranean and western balkans route arises. croatia will not allow itself to become a country that would be an informal hotspot. this is clear. we haven’t opted, unlike some other member states, to erect barricades and fences, and to create barbed wire. on the contrary, we are protecting our border, with 6 500 police guarding the croatian border, guarding the future schengen border and guarding the european union border. in that respect, we shall apply our law, european standards and international conventions. any allegations that there were any misdemeanours will be investigated and sanctioned, but none of these allegations should be taken per se as a fact. this is what i’m telling you, as someone who has visited the area of the north—western border between bosnia and herzegovina and croatia and fully understands the terrain and the conditions. on that, we need to cooperate, use the activities of frontex and help each other in order to address the issue adequately. when it comes to the issue of enlargement, which was mentioned by mr bay, i will simply say one thing. there is no fuite en avant. there is a careful, responsible logic for those who are european states and those who are surrounded by european union states because, let’s be clear: the countries of south—east europe have nowhere else to go. they will not become members of the united states, china, russia or whoever else. the only way forward is europe. it’s our policy to structure that relationship in a serious manner. if we perennially have the policy of leaving them the impression that they’ll be part of the antichambre forever, it will not be good. they will derail, they will walk away from the objectives and they will lose momentum in the reforms. opening negotiations doesn’t mean accession tomorrow. it means a long, cumbersome, technical and stringent process. therefore, the modification of the methodology and progress of the two countries will hopefully come to a conducive situation so that, at the zagreb summit, we can have a successful declaration, paving the way for the next ten years. this is our objective. ms tomašić, thank you for your suggestions. i really am grateful that you want success for croatia. we will work with you to enable this. this will not be an exercise, as you said, almost in a protocol sense. we are working hard. we have been preparing hard. we are in the fourth year of our mandate. the people who are dealing with this have been dealing with it – unlike many other actors in my country today who dare to speak on europe – every single hour of their working, political and professional life to understand europe, to work for croatian membership and to make our role in europe relevant and successful, and this is how we approach it. finally, on the funds that mr kolakušić mentioned, i will just make two points. the balance between traditional policy and modernisation is not a simple equation to be solved. had this been such a simple exercise, we would probably already have seen an agreement in the previous composition of the parliament. we all have a lot of responsibility. positions are pretty distant, but we all need to concede a little bit in order for all of us to gain for our countries and our citizens. this will be the guiding prescient principle for these negotiations in the months to come. thank you for this part of the intervention.
mr president of parliament, mr president of the government, ladies and gentlemen, croatia belongs to europe historically and culturally. but not so long ago, for the generations of my parents, freedom, democracy, and full membership of the european family were just distant and uncertain aspirations. that is why the croatian presidency of the council of the european union is another symbol in the great transformation of croatia. from a hard struggle for independence and self-governance that began three decades ago, when i was born, to a successful member state of the european union. today, at the beginning of a new and institutional cycle, we have common goals, but also common challenges, which are also recognised in the croatian presidency priorities. one of the key issues will be the question of the multiannual budget of the european union. in addition to modernising europe, we must not forget the european union's traditionally successful fundamental policies aimed at reducing regional disparities, which unfortunately still exist. i am convinced that croatia, with its unique perspective, can contribute to addressing new and interesting circumstances, economic, demographic and technological changes. i am convinced that this will be a successful presidency, for the whole european union, for a strong europe in a world full of challenges!
dear chair, croatia is taking the lead of the european union in challenging times. regardless of the differences between us, the quality of life of our citizens should be our priority. in the european single market, no one can be a second-class citizen. the labour market should be open to all those who want to earn a decent living from their work. we need to give a new impetus to the youth guarantee, make it easier for entrepreneurs to expand their business across borders, but also ensure a european minimum wage. every citizen's work in the european union is worth the same and must be paid for the same. what are we, if not a community of equals?! all economic instruments should be considered in the long term. in the context of the new green deal, we must encourage a dialogue with industry which must look beyond profit and take on social responsibility. we need to protect the consumers who are the weakest link in the market. safe but healthy food should be a priority for the eu member states, especially in view of the epidemic of obesity and related diseases. i welcome the announcement of a commitment to higher product quality and the same level of food safety for all citizens of the european union. the first step is the implementation of the new european regulations on inspections in the food sector, which croatia is exactly one month behind. finally, i wish us all the best of luck in building a better europe for our citizens!
mr president, mr prime minister, the presidency of the council of the european union is certainly a very challenging period for the youngest member state of the european union. for this reason, i want this presidency to be successful and useful and not to be remembered simply because one member state has left the european union, but to be remembered for working together to ensure a european perspective for our neighbours. besides, i think it's the ideal time for new ideas, for new leaps. i think that in everything we hear here today, the word education is missing, which is, unfortunately, underrepresented. after the bologna declaration, we urgently need a new step towards secondary education. that is why i am proposing and i am specifically offering to extend the bologna process to secondary schools so that we can have a more harmonized and competitive knowledge of our secondary school students. they deserve it, and they rightly expect it.
madam president, i would say to prime minister plenković that his presidency says that they want to focus on the rule of law and humane migration management, but after i read the reports i went to the areas that he talked about in the north of bosnia and south of croatia. making a careful estimate, we have seen 10 000 illegal push—backs in 2018 and 25 000 in 2019. 10 000 of them were chain push—backs. having read the reports on the brutality of the croatian border police, i must say that the stories i heard were sometimes even worse: dog wounds, wounds by tasers and the brutality that they had witnessed and that they had been subject to was horrendous. also, civil society organisations trying to show solidarity with refugees are being targeted. i think the message here has to be clear. there is no member state that should behave in this way at their borders, no matter where, as was said by colleagues earlier. we need to see a stop to this. we need to see an independent monitoring mechanism being put in place and we also need to be clear, there can be no schengen membership unless this situation stops. (the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 171(8))
question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, why are you telling untruths? the reports you mentioned are not reports of the competent institutions that deal with this, but, unfortunately, an attempt to defame the croatian authorities and the croatian state by certain organizations that have absolutely no legitimacy nor have the relevant resources or information to be able to talk about such things. croatia respects all european union regulations, croatia respects international law and i ask you to really refrain from such unverified information and its dissemination in the european parliament.
blue-card answer. – excuse me, but this is ridiculous. you have read the reports, i have seen it with my own eyes. i was there for a very short time and i witnessed a push—back myself – 20 people being pushed back by croatian border police. i saw the dog wounds. i saw the wounds. i’ve heard stories of people having to stand 30 minutes in cold water up to their chest before being forced back to bosnia, so don’t come and say that it is not true. say what you will do instead. will you have an independent monitoring mechanism? will you make sure that eu law and international law and fundamental rights are respected? today, they are not.
madam president, it is worth mentioning at this point what croatia looks like during the presidency of mr plenkovic and the rule of his government, and it is characterized by two things: lawlessness and corruption. let me illustrate this with a personal example, and it's about the right to access information. as a member of the croatian parliament two years ago, i sent a request, and this is a public record, to provide me with information about who, on certain days, entered the croatian government building, the holy building of the croatian government, one of the main croatian institutions. to this day, after two years, you have not answered my inquiry. if that's how a congressman responds, what can a citizen expect? you had two weeks, the law says two weeks, the commissioner's office has decided that you have to answer because it's public information, you have the decision of the constitutional court and you still have not answered anything. so much for your transparency! the envelope is in the government building, 100 meters from the building of the croatian parliament, you refuse to give mail, to receive mail! that's not the way a statesman or a prime minister acts, that's the way a petty crook acts! and why are you doing all this? to protect their friends who illegally, secretly met in a government building and wrote a law assigning themselves jobs worth 500 million kuna. a conflict of interest for croatian examples without precedent!
mr vice-president, climate change is a reality and we see it every day and it is threatening many parts of europe, including my country, the republic of croatia, and especially our coastal cities such as zadar, split and dubrovnik, which are real gems of historical heritage that must be protected. but on the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account the consequences that the transition and the green deal will have on our industry, on our society, and in this regard i would like to stress four principles. first, when it comes to environmental protection and the green deal, there needs to be a strong and precise impact assessment of regulations that should be based on science, not ideology. secondly, it must be clearly defined how to help those most in need, and that is where the just transition fund is of paramount importance. third, the means to finance the transition must not be at the expense of cohesion. cohesion is one of the most successful european policies, embodying the very principle of solidarity on which the european union is founded and which should therefore be preserved in this context. and fourth, the rules on how the funds will be financed and to whom and under what criteria the funds will be allocated must be clear and precise, which is unfortunately not the case at the moment.
the honorable chairwoman. the recent events in iran and iraq show all the hubris, all the arrogance of american foreign policy. it's arrogant to attack a general from a country you're not at war with. it is arrogant to attack it in a third country, which is why the iraqi parliament passed a resolution on the withdrawal of foreign troops, albeit non-binding. it's arrogant. if civilians were killed, america would not have responded. when was america and what was it responsible for? it's arrogant to lie about going on the offensive because of the imminent threat of mike pompeo, only to have that lie disprove itself in a matter of days. and why was it made? to avoid a debate in the congress, to avoid a debate in the congress. also, credibility is not a strong point of american foreign policy, think wmd and george bush. it's arrogant to condemn europe for not wanting to help in this attack. and finally, the height of arrogance is to say that cultural assets in iran are legitimate military targets. america has a $650 billion military budget a year and unfortunately they have to spend it somewhere and be constantly at war.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given a clear and unambiguous mandate to carry out its tasks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are impressed not only by the absolute refusal of the far right to support this resolution but also by its refusal to accept the participation of the citizens in this dialogue. why were you afraid of civic engagement?
mr president, the peoples and countries of europe are doomed to each other. we were here before europe, now that it's europe, we'll be here no matter what happens to the european union. today, by the way, is the international day of recognition of the republic of croatia, and on this day, listening to the debate here, i have received a little personal recognition by listening to the great defenders of europe that i have followed for years admitting that they were wrong, that they implemented policies that hit the wall. - that's great. acknowledging is the first step in solving anything. europe is lacking in solidarity. in croatia, when there's a fire in dalmatia, we all jump to help dalmatia. when there are floods in slavonia, all of croatia jumps to help slavonia. however, in europe, solidarity is minimal. instead of solidarity, you offered oppression. you have reduced solidarity by your misguided common oppressive policies. for example, monetary policy. now croatia is pushing into the eurozone. you're going to take away all the tools of the crisis, the policy of interest rates. what will happen to us then? the aid elements are useless. do we want to lose like greece 25% of the economy? will our economy die like a dog on the street?
madam president, the european union today is significantly different from what it was only a decade ago when the lisbon treaty entered into force. we are witnessing truly unprecedented technological and economic, but also demographic, changes. this clearly affects the way we live, the way we work and the way we communicate, but it also has an impact on the demand for a more active role for our citizens in our democracy. this is why we have the responsibility to offer new and innovative ways for europeans to be included more in the decisions that matter to them. since young europeans are often the ones who really lead the transformative trends in our societies, they can certainly offer a unique point of view. i’m also glad that vice—president šuica will lead the commission’s work on the conference. this is because, for its success, it is really crucial to understand all the european diversities and to include the special perspectives of our citizens coming from all corners of europe. because of that, it is really important to include all those perspectives. this conference should certainly not be a box—ticking exercise. we have to be constructive, we have to be inclusive, and we have to adapt europe for the new world and for the new generations. (applause)
madam president, the future of europe is undoubtedly a concern for all of us. i therefore welcome the solution which lays the foundations for the conference on the future of europe. european citizens must be able to debate what tomorrow will look like in europe, but also to express their own views on the subject. civil society and all stakeholders at european, national, regional and local level must contribute to strengthening the european future, while respecting a set of inalienable and indestructible values, and also shaping the european union as we want it. whether it is the environment and climate, the economic and social sectors, the rights and freedoms of the european citizen must be guaranteed. young people are also the most affected by decisions that are made in one way or another. this is why they must be given the space to express their views and present their solutions for their future and that of europe.
madam president, i hope that the parliament – the great majority here – is ready to prepare the future of europe openly and not behind closed doors. we even invite citizens to participate and to be listened to, firstly in a citizens’ agora and in an additional agora for young people, who will be the most affected by the future of europe. there are very good signals of people’s will to participate. in last summer’s elections, participation, especially among young people, increased by over 12%. so what kind of future? for example, in the nordic countries we value security and foreign policy and see good opportunities to be a more serious global player. we have a strong commitment to climate action, we value social fairness and we hate ongoing tax frauds. we know that citizens also want to raise practical issues that make their lives easier and better, but that the lack of common regulation hinders this. dialogue gives people more of a voice to raise topics and issues between elections. this conference needs to look at the democratic aspect of the future of the eu, and the spitzenkandidat system must be clear well before the next elections.
madam president, will the conference on the future of europe be just another machine that emmanuel macron has the secret to use to prepare his future presidential campaign, or will it be a concrete step forward in the service of the people? the future will tell. if you want a concrete step forward, here it is: we were elected on 26 may, our mandate is five years, and yet the really structural work only begins this week, eight months after our election. what a waste of time with successive installations of institutions. to improve the future of europe, i am proposing that, from the next mandate, the commission and the council of the union be installed within four weeks of the elections of the members of parliament, so that, from 1 july and not from 1 january, all the institutions are fully operational and can thus begin their work in the service of the people. ladies and gentlemen, we were not elected to get stuck in the pipeline, we were elected to repair the image that people can have of this very beautiful project that is europe.
madam president, when the lisbon treaty finally came into force in 2009, then president of the council, mr van rompuy, announced in this house that it would be the treaty with which we would live for the rest of our lives. and yet, ten years later, the von der leyen commission is launching a conference on the future of europe, from which a reform of the treaties can emerge. what's the reason? the european union is plunging into the worst crisis in its history, coinciding with the treaty of lisbon. the great recession, the exasperation of inequalities, the application of article 7 to two member states, the withdrawal of one member state from the union - brexit - and, above all, in this parliament, the increase in the number of seats representing exclusionary and supremacist nationalism and reactionary populism. this parliament has no deficit of democratic legitimacy. it is the only directly elected institution. it has no skills deficit, although they can be reinforced. it is a legislative parliament, but it must take the opportunity of the conference to reconnect with the ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, i think this conference on the future of europe is a fantastic opportunity to hear what kind of europe the citizens really want. what is important is that from their needs, from their desires, we will come up with an idea that we need to do, and that is how to change, how to reform this europe. the question is how we will be able to measure the success of the conference. i think in two ways. the first is definitely the conclusions that they're going to have to make, and the second is the number of citizens that are going to be involved in that conference. that is why it is important to maximise the motivation of citizens, to maximise the reimbursement of travel costs, but also to involve ngos, to maximise the involvement of all stakeholders and not to ask citizens once every five years what europe they want, but to maximise the vote now for the next two years and then to act.
blue-card question. – colleague, you mentioned the problems in burundi, but this is not the only country where such things take place, especially in africa. we discuss these things a lot here in this parliament. but what do you think, honestly, that the eu can do to really influence issues in these kinds of countries? we know that we have development aid, etc., but to what extent do you think that the european union can find a really unified voice and influence issues at the global level?
blue-card question. – dear colleagues, christians are in fact the most persecuted religious group in the world and that is a topic which has not really addressed in the western and especially in the european media. why is that the case? why are these persecutions against christians usually not talked about? why is the focus more on the persecutions of other religious groups and what can we as meps in your opinion, do to change this kind of public perception?
madam vice president, christians are the most persecuted religious community in the world today. and unfortunately, that's not some personal impression of mine, but that fact, that claim is based solely on fact. just a few numbers. in 2018, more than 4,000 christians were killed worldwide. not only that, but more than 245 million christians worldwide have been victims of severe persecution because of being christians. that's 1 in 9 christians in the world. i think we all really need to think about that number and what it says. unfortunately, the perception in the west, especially in the western media, is quite the opposite. nigeria, in 2019, unfortunately, was just at the forefront of the persecution of christians. the number of christians killed in that year alone has increased from 1,350, and since 2015, it has exceeded 6,000. if we look at the period of the last 10 years, more than 12,000 christians have been killed in nigeria because they were christians. so i think we should call the problem what it is. this is not primarily a conflict between north and south, between nomads and peasants, but a conflict between the persecution of christians, which is now almost genocidal. so, it's not just about the murders, of course, it's about the confiscation of property by the principle of "your land or your blood". it's about rapes, it's about expulsions, it's about the systematic persecution of christians at all levels in nigeria, a country where christians make up almost 50% of the population. so they're not a minority. there are over 80 million of them, and now just imagine what it is like in many countries where they are indeed a minority. in other words, the european union should be clear in its position on the persecution of christians both in nigeria and in other countries. we should certainly open debates in this parliament in general on the persecution of christians in the world and we should take a clear and unambiguous position without "pocket money", without hypocrisy, because this is a big problem that the european union needs to speak out about and that we need to fight against.
mr president, on the case itself, i think we heard a presentation by our colleague from the gue/ngl group. my group will vote against this proposal not because of the case, but i don’t think we should start adding individual cases to plenary debates – we have the urgencies for that – and my group will be happy to support to add it as an urgency in the next plenary, but vote against this for a debate here this week.
the s&d group also called for the inclusion of a commission statement on the proposed amendments to the romanian electoral law as the second item on the agenda for thursday morning. the vote will therefore begin at 12 noon. i give the floor to mrs simona bonafè to present the s&d group's request.
the romanian government has tabled a bill to amend the electoral law for local elections, which is to be adopted three months before the elections, in clear violation of the venice commission's recommendations. moreover, these changes are to be adopted by extraordinary procedure, without amendments and without debate in the romanian parliament. on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i would ask that a statement by the commission, as guardian of the treaties and the fundamental principles of the rule of law, on these amendments to the electoral law be added to tomorrow's agenda and i ask that this request be put to the vote by roll-call.
mr president, romania is not introducing a new electoral system; it is introducing a figure that already existed in 2012, which is the second round for the election of mayors, so that mayors have at least 51% of the votes. that happens in most of our countries, and in those countries where it doesn't happen, like mine, we're hoping that it will happen someday. what kind of message are we sending if we condemn or censure romania for doing what most of the countries of the european union are doing? this is not an anti-roman parliament.
the green group also asked for a commission statement on the european union's response to the devastation caused by the floods in spain to be added to the agenda for thursday morning as the second item on the agenda. i give the floor to mr riba i giner to present the request of the green group.
maybe he was distracted, but i made a statement about it. mr nethsingha's report on the verification of credentials is put to the vote. i have also indicated the deadlines for tabling amendments to mr nethsingha's report on the verification of credentials. maybe he was distracted, but there was no omission.
the agenda includes the recommendation by guy verhofstadt, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland from the european union and the european atomic energy community (21105/3/2018 - c9-0148/2019 - 2018/0427(nle)) (a9-0004/2020). i give the floor to the rapporteur, mr verhofstadt, and i thank president von der leyen and mr barnier and, of course, the croatian presidency for their presence in the chamber.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, the first thing that i want to do in this debate is to thank one man – a man here in this room – because in this fight he has played a crucial role. he has kept the unity of the 27, he has kept the unity between the three institutions, and everybody who works in europe knows that this is not a small achievement. and for that reason, i want – especially for his friendship, for his cooperation – to thank michel barnier, our chief negotiator. (applause)at the beginning of this debate, mr president, i want also to pay tribute to our british colleagues – well, at least the overwhelming majority of them. i have to say to them that they have always brought wit, charm, intelligence (some of them). and, let’s recognise, sometimes also stubbornness in this house. i think that i can say, in the name of all of us, from all groups, i can only say we will miss you in the coming time and in the coming years. (applause)mr president, let me be clear from the start of this debate. today’s vote is not a vote in favour of or against brexit; it’s a vote for an orderly brexit against a wild, a hard brexit. i will be very honest with you: if we could stop brexit by voting ‘no’ today, i would be the first to recommend it. but that’s not on our plate today. that’s not on our table and not the issue today. it is indeed a sad issue: sad to see a nation leaving, a great nation that has given all of us so much. i mean culturally, i mean economically, i mean politically, even its own blood in two world wars. it’s in fact sad to see a country leaving that twice liberated us, has twice given its blood to liberate europe. and i think, mr president, in these debates we cannot escape a key question: how could this happen? how is it possible that, more than 40 years after, i think, an enormous overwhelming majority of nearly 70% voted to enter into the european family, how 40 years later they decided, based on their sovereign rights, to leave this european project? i have to tell you that, since the outcome of the referendum (and that is now more than 3 years ago), i have heard many opinions about it. everybody has an opinion about it. some people are saying: well look, they are simply afraid, the brits, of losing their sovereignty. that’s the issue. but colleagues, what does ‘sovereignty’ in fact mean today, in a world that is completely dominated by powerhouses like china, like india, like the us; in a world where we have to challenge transnational problems like climate change and the digital supremacy – tomorrow, of china, today of the us? let me say it maybe a little more punchily: what is in fact threatening britain’s sovereignty most – the rules of our single market or the fact that tomorrow there will be, maybe, the planting of chinese 5g masts in the british isles? the cruel reality that we have to consider today in this debate is that european countries lost their sovereignty already a long time ago, and that europe is just the way to regain that sovereignty in the coming years. there have been other people who told me and michel barnier: look, you don’t understand it. it’s all about migration that brexit is happening: migrants working in british hospitals, migrants working in british universities, migrants working on construction sites in london. while in fact, dear colleagues, these migrants are european citizens exactly like british citizens are: paying taxes to britain and, in fact, contributing to the future of british society. then, finally, there are other opinions, but i will be short today (for once). there are others who are saying, and pointing the finger at us, and saying: yes, the reason for brexit is simple. you didn’t give enough to mr cameron when he came to brussels and when he requested new exceptions for britain: exceptions on free movement, exceptions on the question of the political union. well i have to tell you, mr president and colleagues today, that, as rapporteur, it’s my personal opinion and my firm conviction that the opposite is true. brexit started not three and a half years ago. brexit started long ago, and i think, personally, that brexit started exactly the day we started giving exceptions: with opt-ins, with opt-outs, with rebates. that’s, in my opinion, the moment the union ceased to be in union. and it’s also the moment, colleagues, that the discontent about europe started. all these exceptions, all these vetoes make a union, in my opinion, not capable to act effectively: always acting too little, too late. and it is, in my opinion, this lack of effectiveness that leads to even more discontent. it’s like a self-fulfilling prophecy, with members – one leg in the union and another leg outside the union – only looking for the advantages, not for the obligations. so in my opinion: yes, brexit is also a failure of the union. it’s also our failure: we have to recognise that in this debate. and yes, there is a lesson to learn from it, and this lesson, dear colleagues, is not to undo the union, as some are arguing here; no, this lesson is – and we have to learn this from brexit – to deeply reform the union, to make it a real union in the coming years. that means a union without opt-ins, opt-outs, rebates, exceptions and, above all, without unanimity rules and veto rights. only then can we act, and only then will we defend our interests, and only then will we defend our values. it is this lack of effectiveness that is the problem that we have seen in brexit. i have to tell you – and that will be my conclusion, mr president – in the last couple of days, i received – maybe as you – hundreds of mails from british citizens saying they desperately want either to stay or to return. and i have to tell you, for once – normally it’s easy for me – but this time i don’t know what to respond, because it’s not in our capacity to decide that. but that doesn’t mean that we don’t have a responsibility to make sure that the union to which they will return will be another union, effective and more democratic. so – and that’s my last sentence as rapporteur, mr president (thank you for the support): this vote is not an adieu; this vote is, in my opinion, only an au revoir.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, when the honourable members next meet in this chamber after this weekend, this will be a different plenary. this will be a different union, with one member less. this is not the choice of the council, nor the parliament, but we have to respect it. the withdrawal of the united kingdom will open a period of transition: a rather short one, if the united kingdom’s intention remains not to seek its extension before 1 july. our priority should, therefore, be to rapidly adopt a comprehensive negotiation mandate and start negotiations in order to build a new relationship with the united kingdom that is as close as possible but balanced in terms of rights and obligations. the short duration of the transition period will, unfortunately, make it more difficult to achieve the widest—ranging outcome by the end of the year. we, therefore, have to remain prepared for all possible scenarios. it also seems that the current orientations of the united kingdom government are adding to this complexity, be it as regards the end of free movement, non—participation in the single market or the customs union, or the intention to diverge from a regulatory perspective. we have to invest all efforts to avoid the risk of a cliff edge, and to ensure a meaningful outcome of the negotiation this autumn. fortunately, and regardless of the outcome, the withdrawal agreement will continue to apply, especially its part 2 on citizens’ rights and the various remedies foreseen should the uk not deliver adequately in implementing these provisions. as we debated two weeks ago, having the withdrawal agreement in force does not mean that we should rest on our laurels. as noted in your resolution adopted on the occasion, a number of concerns regarding the preservation of citizens’ rights have to be addressed. this will call for careful monitoring by the uk side as well as by the commission of the implementing of the relevant provisions. today, your vote will hopefully pave the way for the next stage: negotiating the terms of the future relationship with the uk. a relationship for which the european council called for a comprehensive mandate, covering trade and economic relations, as well as external and internal security. likewise, this relationship should be underpinned by strong governance and robust level playing field provisions, given the close economic proximity of the united kingdom. even if the core elements of the future relationship – notably the horizontal provisions on governance and the level playing field – can be agreed by the end of the year, the negotiations are expected to take longer: until all the matters covered by the political declaration have been addressed. i therefore welcome the step taken by the parliament to prepare itself within the adaptation of the brexit steering group in a manner that will allow a closer follow—up of the negotiation process. parliament’s resolution as well as its engagement, notably on citizens’ rights, have proved extremely useful during the negotiation process. we count on this engagement to continue during the transition period and later on – and indeed, a large degree of convergence was revealed during the brexit process between the position of parliament as developed in your various resolutions and the priorities of the council. whatever happens, good cooperation between all eu institutions must continue. the european parliament will remain fully informed and involved in accordance with the eu treaties. i do hope that, during the negotiations to come, our common efforts and commonality of purpose will provide the support required by our negotiator and help to achieve an outcome to the benefit of the union and its citizens. to conclude, as i said at the beginning of my intervention, this is a special moment. a number of your colleagues, members of this house, will be leaving. i know it is an emotional occasion for many of you and i would like to associate myself by addressing my gratitude to the uk members of the european parliament for their significant contribution to the work of your institution and of the european union over the years and wish them well for the future. thank you for your attention.
president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as president of the european commission, first of all i want to pay tribute to all those british people who contributed so much to almost half a century of british eu membership. i think of all those who helped to build our institutions: people like commissioner arthur cockfield, who was known as the father of our single market, or roy jenkins, president of the european commission, who did so much to pave the way for our single currency. i think of these thousands of european civil servants of british nationality who devoted their lives and their careers to europe and have done so much to build our union. they will always stay part of our family. and i think of all those years so many british meps have contributed to making this parliament and the union strong. you have our gratitude and our respect, even more so for your resilience in the last 3.5 years. we will miss you, but we will always keep up our friendship with you, and you can count on us, as we know that we can count on you. honourable members, in the last plenary session we discussed the issues of citizens’ rights. we will also be vigilant on the implementation of the agreement in northern ireland. the power-sharing agreement in northern ireland gives us hope that the spirit of cooperation will continue to mark relations across the border. yet the withdrawal agreement is only a first step. from now on it’s about our new partnership with the united kingdom. the negotiations are about to start. and just to be very clear: i want the european union and the united kingdom to stay good friends and good partners. the story is about old friends and new beginnings, and we have a lot in common. we both believe that climate change needs to be fought as a matter of urgency. there’s still scope to address these risks, but the window of opportunity is closing. so let’s join forces in protecting our planet. we both understand that it takes very little power to break a fragile balance and turn it into a full-blown conflict but that the true power lies in putting the pieces back together. and therefore we both believe in the power of development cooperation, and we know that our security is interlinked. and here too we should join forces. for all these and many other reasons, we want to forge a close partnership, but we also know that we have to sort out how to deal with the united kingdom as a third country. when it comes to trade, we are considering a free trade agreement with zero tariffs and zero quotas. this would be unique; no other free trade agreement offers such an access to our single market. but the precondition is that european and british businesses continue to compete on a level playing field. we will certainly not expose our companies to unfair competition. and it’s very clear: the trade-off is simple. the more united the united kingdom does commit to uphold our standards for social protection and workers’ rights, our guarantees for the environment and other standards and rules ensuring fair competition, the closer and better the access to the single market. and let me say that, just days ago, some of the largest business associations in britain – particularly in the car and aerospace industry – asked their government to retain eu standards and rules. and i think this is in our mutual interest. this is about jobs, it’s about common solutions for the world market. and i believe that the united kingdom and the european union have a mutual interest in the closest possible partnership. honourable members, no new partnership will bring back the benefits of being part of the same union, but we have a duty to seek the best for the british and for the european people in a post-brexit world. on our side, we’ll seek the best for industries and farmers across our continent who ask for predictability. we will seek our best for young british and young european students who want to study and who want to live across the channel. and we’ll seek the best for all the researchers and scientists who want to explore the unknown and work for common solutions together in the european union as well as in the united kingdom. we will devote all our energy, 24/7, to come to results. and to our british friends, and many – perhaps not all, but many – of our british meps here in the room, i want to use the words of the famous british poet george eliot. she said: only in the agony of parting do we look into the depth of love. we will always love you, and we will never be far. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, everybody in this room who feels to be a european knows the story how to achieve this feeling, how to get this feeling: which event, which book, which talk, which person gave us this idea of being a european. for me it was a trip to great britain. i was in england as an 18-year-old boy with interrail. i stood in a bar. i spoke with an old man, a guinness in my hand, and we talked about history. he spoke about our fears towards the future, our values. and i understood that we as europeans have similar fears, hopes; face the same global challenges and stand on the same ground: our european way of life. great britain is now leaving. this week is a sad day for the european union. great britain did so much for prosperity, for peace and democracy in europe. they will leave us. we cannot change it, but – i have to be clear again – it is a huge mistake. i want to thank also, like my previous speakers, our british colleagues and all the staff members who served in this european parliament. on friday you will leave a unique institution and one of the greatest projects in european history: the place of european democracy. and i’ll tell you again: we will miss you. now we have the leave treaty on the table: a good agreement which creates certainty. i also want to thank jean-claude juncker, donald tusk, guy verhofstadt and especially michel barnier for their work. especially our irish friends got a good understanding of what it means to be part of a big family. the british-irish history is not an easy one, but it was clear during the last three years: dublin and leo varadkar were strong due to the membership in the european union. togetherness makes you stronger: that is the lesson which our irish friends learned. and we must keep known the unity. we will focus now on the partnership and friendship with the uk. but one thing is clear: the uk will be a third country. and that means the rules will change. i want to identify two main points on behalf of the epp. it was the decision of the uk to limit the transition period. we have always shown understanding and flexibility, but we will not allow the eu to be put under pressure and reach a rushed final agreement. we are ready for intensive talks, but in the end, we want to have the best agreement, not the quickest one. and the second thing i want to remind us is: once you’re part of a union, you can enjoy the advantages; once you’re not part of a union, you’re losing the advantages. that has nothing to do with punishment; that is simply the outcome of the decision of the british voters. and let me say it in other words: there will be no cherry picking, no european singapore next to our markets. we only will grant them access to our market if they respect the european rules. and i also want to add: we defend not only the rules on market base. we tell, for example, norway and switzerland that they can only have access to the single market if they respect also the freedom of movement. that’s the same for great britain: we do not allow trucks to cross our borders without control and people to be stopped. that is not the idea of our european union; there is not a dream you’re dreaming. and dear colleagues, a final word on what also guy verhofstadt underlined about the lesson we have to learn out of the brexit developments. to avoid another brexit debate in one of our member states, we need a european union that is ready to act: results, outcomes, positive contributions to the daily life of our citizens is in the centre of our work, and that’s why, again, to the colleagues who will leave us – in my group it was julie girling, it was richard ashworth, richard corbett, other friends here in the plenary – i tell you, i hope our work in the next years will make europe so strong, so attractive, that your children and grandchildren will want to be part of the european union once again. i hope one day they will vote again for this unique institution and will send european members from britain to the european parliament. thank you so much. we will work hard on this.
madam president, i know that you manage the time in order to serve us all. i recognise that and you do it very well. it is not every day that a member state is leaving the european union; do not tell me that we have to vote at 6.00 p.m. sharp because tvs are waiting for us. this is a historic day, please.
indeed, i agree absolutely with you. this is an historic day. i am not free here, i am under some direction. i agree with you that we should speak all night if possible, but i will try and manage the debate within our time and i would ask you to respect it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, today is a very sad day for europe. at the end of this week, after 47 years, the united kingdom will end its historic relationship with the european union. we are devastated to see the uk go. respetamos la decisión del pueblo británico, pero su soberana decisión no es óbice para que denunciemos a los responsables políticos que influyeron en la opinión pública británica a través de una campaña populista y desinformada; la derecha británica acabó devorada en su particular guerra civil por la extrema derecha inglesa y el referéndum del brexit inauguró la era de las noticias falsas en un contexto de desencanto general de la población después de años de austeridad. la unión europea es mucho más que un mercado y necesitamos seguir adelante. estamos construyendo un espacio de derechos, de seguridad y de progreso social por el que muchos británicos y británicas —sobre todo los laboristas— se han batido durante décadas, incluso sacrificando su vida, tal y como ocurrió con la diputada laborista asesinada jo cox. por ello, no hay mejor manera de honrar su memoria que trabajar día a día por una europa que murió defendiendo. el populismo ha obtenido una victoria con su mejor arma: la mentira. pero que nadie dude de que se trata de una victoria pírrica y la mejor prueba de ello es el acuerdo de retirada entre el reino unido y la unión europea que esta cámara se dispone a adoptar. este acuerdo demuestra que nuestros lazos históricos prevalecerán sobre quienes aspiran a destruirlos. por un lado, el acuerdo de retirada garantiza los derechos de los ciudadanos europeos en el reino unido y los derechos de los ciudadanos británicos en la unión europea, y por otro, evita el levantamiento de la frontera entre la república de irlanda e irlanda del norte, porque la pertenencia de los dos países a la unión europea ha tenido un efecto crucial: convertir la frontera que separa irlanda del norte de irlanda en irrelevante y rebajar la tensión del conflicto. otro ejemplo que demuestra la victoria desfavorable obtenida por el populismo británico es la negociación sobre nuestra nueva futura relación. el 1 de febrero, el reino unido pasará formalmente a ser un país tercero y perderá todos sus derechos políticos. pero en todo lo demás nada cambiará hasta que termine el periodo transitorio. the history of the united kingdom and that of the european union is one. we also share our laws and values. if the british people ever decide to come back, our arms will be open. you can always count on the support of the social democrats because our common values will always remain.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, for some, 31 january will be a happy day. for us greens and european free alliance members, it will be a sad day. it’s no secret that each and every one of us fought relentlessly to keep the united kingdom as part of the european union: not because we think that whatever the european union does is the right thing, but because we firmly believe that the only way for europeans to regain sovereignty – that is, the ability to shape our future – is by sharing it. as jean-claude juncker once said, there are two sorts of european states: the small ones and those who don’t yet realise they are small. but more importantly, we see the european union as an unprecedented, if fragile, attempt at building a transnational democracy. such an experiment may come in handy at a time when not just europe but the entire world is facing challenges beyond the might of any single nation. citizens, we fought the battle and we lost. last december’s election provided a result, but not the one we wished. in two days from now, brexit will happen and, in order for it to be orderly, we will vote for the withdrawal agreement. the united kingdom and the eu remain bound by geography. it is in no-one’s interest to have bad relations as neighbours. but more fundamentally, we european decision-makers must realise that, if an increasing number of our fellow citizens have turned their backs against the european project, it’s for a reason. it’s because many believe that too often, policies adopted at european level have served the interests of the few rather than of the many. and we need to fix this. we need to fix this if we really want to avoid the repetition of brexit happening. let us make it our utmost priority that, from now on, our aim will be that all our policies will strive to serve the interests of everyone, starting with the most vulnerable, and do this while respecting the limits that nature imposes on us. the european green deal announced by the european commission is an opportunity to take the right course. let us seize it. this is the best – and the only – way to win or regain the hearts and minds of the european citizens. long live the european union.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. so, ladies and gentlemen, stop mourning this day or, as some have done, talking about a dark day in the history of europe. well, that's not today. the united kingdom, after a thorough and even years-long debate on the european union, has decided to avail itself of the treaty provisions which provide for a member state to leave this 'much too close union'. if there is anything to be regretted here, it is that people like me, who are critical of the ever closer union, which is increasingly federalised, are now left without british support and that the eu fanatics can now go against the tide, full throttle, towards accelerated integration. it is in this context that i would like to recommend that we stop the political tug-of-war and that we establish a relationship, at the level of the commission and the british government, quickly and flexibly, not on the model of an association agreement, it is not turkey or moldova after all, but on the basis of a sui generis model of privileged friendship and complete freedom. that a people is once again returning to its full autonomy, sovereignty, independence and freedom inspires me to say here today: oh what a wonderful afternoon, what a happy day.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, ‘how did we get here?’ asked mr verhofstadt, opening the debate. there was a referendum in 1975, which went in favour of continued membership. there was no continuity leave campaign after that; people accepted the result with good grace. they did not seek to overturn it. indeed, euroscepticism was confined to the fringes of the bennite left. what changed, frankly, was the maastricht treaty. up until that moment, it was still possible to see the eu as a club of nations, as an association of states primarily concerned with trade and economics. but after maastricht it became clear that eu jurisdiction was being extended into a whole series of completely uneconomic fields: foreign policy, culture, migration, citizens’ rights etc., etc., and that the aspiration was to have the eu as a quasi—state with a flag and a parliament and a currency and a president and external embassies and all the other accoutrements. if, at any stage, britain had been able to have a trade—only association, of course that would have been enough. in fact, even as recently as february 2016, if david cameron had come back with any repatriation of power, can we doubt that he would have won the ensuing referendum? but, faced with the departure of its second financial contributor, the eu was still not prepared to allow any devolution of power and that, ultimately, is what made a parting of ways inevitable. so i wish you all the best. i want to return to the kind of vision that churchill set out when he said, let’s have a united europe with britain looking on as a friend and sponsor. you are losing a bad tenant but gaining a good neighbour. vous allez perdre un mauvais locataire, mais vous allez gagner un bon voisin.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the british for their contribution to the european union over forty years, for good and for ill. but in particular, i want to thank our irish friend, martina anderson, who has fought so hard for the people of the north of ireland. she has made a lasting difference to this parliament, to the brexit agreement. gue/ngl will miss her voice. although brexit is partly the result of a huge disinformation campaign, i somehow feel that britain might not be the last member state to leave the european union, but the first. if the eu doesn’t change its political course, more member states might follow. by persisting with austerity and by putting corporate interests ahead of our citizens, governments allow big companies to dominate our lives and our politics. that dominance destroys not only our environment but our economy, our jobs, our public services, our streets, our local libraries, our railways, our post offices, our schools, our entire social fabric. so don’t be surprised the next time we sit here to lament the departure of another member state. britain may be the first, but it may not be the last. brexit should be the wake-up call that we must finally put people and planet before profit in europe.
madam president, so this is it, the final chapter, the end of the road: a 47—year political experiment that the british, frankly, have never been very happy with. my mother and father signed up to a common market, not to a political union, not to flags, anthems, presidents – and now you even want your own army. for me, it’s been 27 years of campaigning and over 20 years here in this parliament. i’m not particularly happy with the agreement we’re being asked to vote on tonight, but boris has been remarkably bold in the last few months and, ms von der leyen, he’s made it clear: he’s promised us there’ll be no level playing field. and, on that basis, i wish him every success in the next round of negotiations, i really do. but the most significant point is this: what happens at 11p.m. this friday, 31 january 2020 marks the point of no return. once we’ve left we are never coming back, and the rest, frankly, is detail. we’re going, we will be gone – and that should be the summit of my own political ambitions. i walked in here – as i’ve said before, you all thought it was terribly funny, you stopped laughing in 2016 – but my view has changed of europe since i joined. in 2005, i saw the constitution that had been drafted by giscard and others. i saw it rejected by the french in a referendum. i saw it rejected by the dutch in a referendum. and i saw you, in these institutions, ignore them, bring it back as the lisbon treaty and boast you could ram it through without there being referendums. well, the irish did have a vote and did say no and were forced to vote again. you’re very good at making people vote again. but what we proved is, the british are too big to bully, thank goodness. so i became an outright opponent of the entire european project. i want brexit to start a debate across the rest of europe. what do we want from europe? if we want trade, friendship, cooperation, reciprocity, we don’t need a european commission. we don’t need a european court. we don’t need these institutions and all of this power. and i can promise you, both in ukip and indeed in the brexit party, we love europe; we just hate the european union. it’s a simple as that. so i’m hoping this begins the end of this project. it’s a bad project. it isn’t just undemocratic, it’s anti—democratic, and it puts in that front row, it gives people power without accountability – people who cannot be held to account by the electorate. and that is an unacceptable structure. indeed, there’s an historic battle going on now across the west: in europe, america and elsewhere. it is globalism against populism. and you may loathe populism, but i’ll tell you a funny thing, it’s becoming very popular, and it has great benefits: no more financial contributions, no more european court of justice, no more common fisheries policy, no more being talked down to, no more being bullied, no more guy verhofstadt. i mean, what’s not to like? i know you’re going to miss us, i know you want to ban our national flags, but we’re going to wave you goodbye and we’ll look forward, in the future, to working with you as sovereign...(the president cut off the speaker)
if you disobey the rules, you get cut off. could we please remove the flags. mr farage, could you remove the flags, please. could i please ask for quiet. please sit down. resume your seats. put your flags away and take them with you, if you are leaving now. goodbye. can i just say that the word ‘hate’ was used in the last contribution. i really think, given what we heard before this, that we should not ‘hate’ anyone, or any people or any nation. (applause)
madam president, i must say that the only thing i am absolutely sure i will not miss is listening to mr farage. i speak here as epp representative in the brexit steering group but also as the former chair of the constitutional affairs committee who had all those brexiteers and nearly 500 meetings with all those potentially affected by brexit. from the very beginning of the negotiations, the eu side has aimed for an orderly withdrawal based on an agreement. this is the only thing we could do to give legal certainty to the process, and we have achieved this goal. i hope most of us will endorse the consent to the council decision on the conclusion of this agreement to avoid a hard brexit. from the very beginning of this process, we have been also clear that uk withdrawal is not a final destination. now we should aim at a close comprehensive agreement on the future relationship, preferably in the form of an association agreement embracing both close economic partnership and security cooperation. we know that the uk political choice has been taking back control. so yes, we are aware that, if the uk aims at divergence from european norms and standards, it can put at risk even a bare-bone fta. that is why a well-tailored agreement on a level playing field will be crucial, mr farage. but there is ahead of us, as the european parliament, also the task to have a watchful eye on the implementation and enforcement of the withdrawal agreement. of particular importance for us will be the oversight of the implementation of citizens’ rights and of the irish protocol. to conclude, let me call on the commission to respect the commitment of its former president to involve the european parliament in the work of the joint committee, and let me reach out to robert burns and say: for auld lang syne.
(inaudible) ... against this withdrawal agreement because it’s bad for britain, it’s bad for europe, and we think it was wrong for boris johnson to proceed without putting it back to the british people to a confirmatory referendum. that was like saying to the british public: you had your say three years ago (four years ago now); now you have to shut up and accept whatever i come up with, no matter how bad it is and no matter how different it is from what he promised. four years ago, johnson and his leave campaign said this would all be easy; it’s turned out to be rather difficult. they said it would save lots of money that would all go to the nhs; it’s turning out to cost a fortune. they said it would be good for britain and the economy; the opposite is true. that’s why the british public voted 53% in our elections for parties demanding another referendum. brexit does not have the wholehearted consent of the british people, and that’s for very good reasons: it bears no resemblance to what they were promised. nor will his promise to ‘get brexit done’ on 31 january turn out to be anything like true. that’s the beginning of the next phase: negotiations to settle issues which will prove very difficult. britain has to make difficult choices. will it want to stay close to the european union, aligned with the rules, or distance itself? if it distances itself, it has huge economic costs. if it aligns itself, it has to follow the rules without having a say on them anymore. neither is actually good for britain. and that’s why public opinion will continue to move against brexit. that’s why i predict that the catchphrase next year in our media and social media will be ‘brexit isn’t working’. that’s what people will say, and that’s why – that, and the fact that it is especially our young people who are strongly against brexit – this may indeed not be an adieu, it may just be an au revoir.
just to say that i did ask colleagues to remove the flags from their desks. our british colleagues have obliged; they’ve left the chamber with their flags. i would ask that other colleagues please do the same. i am bound to apply the rules that the president has set. (interruption from the floor)with due respect, mr annemans, it is not an abuse. could i just say that this is an emotional debate. i’m trying to keep the house in order. (further interruption from the floor)please don’t shout back. you don’t have the microphone. i’m not going to give points of order. i am going to say that this is the rule; i’ve done my best to try and apply it. i am not going to physically remove the flags myself, but i would ask you to respect the speaker. i am doing my job on behalf of this house. (applause) thank you for your support.
madam president, i took my seat in this house, representing wales, over twenty years ago. wales has benefited hugely from eu membership. we also had a lot to contribute. now, despite my best efforts, welsh is still not a fully official language. but i will use it now in my final speech in this parliament. (a few words in welsh) wales is a european nation. i believe our future is within the eu. we are leaving now, but know this: in our hearts we are still here: (a few words in welsh). and we will be back (a few words in welsh). (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with the united kingdom, one of the most important nations is now leaving the eu. finally, these unworthy exit negotiations have come to an end. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. it will now soon be shown how wrong you have been with your gloomy, threatening predictions of a deeply dark future for britain. while britain will now be literally going to new shores economically, brexit will actually mean both economic and political downsizing for the remaining eu states. the british people have democratically decided against eu centralism. this is a wake-up call, a warning to all of us. if this eu is to have a future, it must urgently undergo fundamental reforms. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report. no more accumulation of power here in brussels! to our british friends: we stay friends in freedom, and from now on you will have more freedom than we remainers have. brexit will make britain great again. good luck, you guys.
madam president, may i first of all say a big thank you to colleagues from other nations who’ve made such generous remarks this afternoon. but i have to say, britain always sat somewhat uneasily in the european union. a common market is indeed what many thought they’d joined, rather than a project for political integration. the advance of the eu juggernaut through monnet’s small steps was sometimes hardly noticed. as national borders were eroded and more policy areas became eu competences, so british disenchantment intensified: not surprisingly, as we hear the answer to every problem is more europe – and we even hear this from colleagues from the left in the british political setup. friday will mark the beginning of a new relationship between britain and the european union. the negotiation this year of a free trade agreement and other arrangements should be seen as an opportunity, not a confrontation. it’s in the interests of both the eu and the uk for a good agreement, negotiated with goodwill and flexibility, based on precedent, to be concluded in friendship and before the end of the year. britain will still be a european power – the leading european power in nato, committed to the security of the democracies of the european continent, sharing many of the standpoints and aspirations of the nations of europe, an independent sovereign country with friendly relations with the eu: that’s our aim. madam president, may i just say, on a personal note: i spent 30 years as a british army officer and now 20 years representing britain in this european parliament. i’ve enjoyed my work, and i want to say a big thank you to all colleagues here and to the officials and personal staff that i’ve worked with over the years. thank you and farewell.
a chairde, on friday at 11.00 p.m. this irish mep will be kicked out of this parliament against the democratic wishes of the people of ireland who voted to remain, and who want to stay in the eu. after forty-seven years of membership, and after fifty years of fighting against gerrymandering in places like derry, the british government is once again kicking our voting rights away – taking them away from us and, once again, is changing the constitutional position of the people of ireland without our consent. today i am voting in favour of this irish protocol because sinn féin will not consent to the hardening of the british border partition in ireland. we will not consent to custom posts. we will not consent to barbed wire. there is no doubt that the irish protocol in the withdrawal agreement is an ugly compromise, but it’s better than a crash—out brexit. however, partition and brexit are ugly impositions that have burdened ireland for years. because of partition, brexit is stripping away our democratic and social rights. but because of brexit, a dynamic conversation about irish unity has been invigorated. the eu council made its contribution to irish unity when, on the 29th of april 2017, 27 member states agreed that, if ireland is reunified, the whole of ireland is in the eu. the partition of ireland is not only a problem for us in ireland. the 300 mile border, with 320 border crossings, is now your problem too. when britain gets its empire back, showing it cares nothing about your level playing field, and when shady low-standard products with minimum protection make their way into your market, you will not be long in joining the sensible people in supporting irish unity. there is no doubt that the day will come when irish meps from the north will be back in the european parliament. mark my words: tiocfaidh an lá sin.
the european union is first and foremost a community of citizens of the european union. most countries joined the european union by direct decision in referendums. citizens have spoken out directly about wanting to be part of the european union. they answered a very simple question, "yes" or "no". now, once again, the citizens of the united kingdom answered a very simple question: "yes" or "no". how do citizens decide? they want to be members of a community, first of all, that they have more benefits than harms, they want to have equality and respect, they want to have economic benefits. if citizens of certain countries see that other citizens of other countries have greater economic benefits, there will be another withdrawal from the european union, and i don't think this will be the last.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, i think that this debate has shown us that, in cases like this, we need a strong common european response, a common european union healthcare policy. unfortunately, we know that – according to article 168 – possibilities to have a common eu policy in this area are very limited. so my question to you is this: does this outbreak show us that the european union needs more powers in the area of healthcare to combat these kinds of threats?
dear vice-president, it is now more than four years since the start of the refugee crisis. however, the dire humanitarian situation on the greek islands, with tens of thousands of migrants, including children, in extremely difficult living conditions, shows once again how unprepared we are, in fact, still to cope with the migratory pressure. the commission has also taken the necessary measures to ensure that the migration flows from the greek mainland to the eu are not disrupted by illegal immigration. no european country can face the challenge of migration on its own. because migration is a european union-wide issue and we therefore need a new common, efficient, sustainable and humane system of migration and asylum. the living conditions of migrants on the greek islands are completely unacceptable. it is therefore necessary to oppose even more decisively the chains of smugglers and traffickers who increasingly place migrants in life-threatening situations, but it is also necessary to respect the rights and dignity of all migrants, as well as our duty to ensure a normal life for the inhabitants of the greek islands and the security of all european citizens. (the ombudsman agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you so much for asking. i think there is no doubt that if we want to reach a new agreement on a fair, humane, effective system of migration and asylum, we must start with those key preconditions, and above all that is the effective protection of the external borders of the european union, since without this no agreement between member states, clearly based both on solidarity but also on responsibility, will be possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very happy to be back with you again today and to give you a first insight into our reflections on the future of transport and mobility. i would also like to welcome your choice to put sustainability at the centre of this debate, as it perfectly mirrors our common ambitions. as we look to the future, and in line with president von der leyen’s political guidelines, our policy actions will, on the one hand, be guided by the ambition of the european green deal to ensure that transport makes its important contribution to climate neutrality by 2050 and, on the other, by a europe that is fit for the digital age when it comes to harnessing digital technologies to make mobility smart as well as sustainable. the strategy on sustainable and smart mobility will have these two objectives at its heart and will guide us towards a transport sector that is fit for a clean, digital and modern economy. the commission will adopt the strategy later this year, once we have completed our preparatory work, including the public consultation, and received feedback from the stakeholders. what is certain is that the strategy must include ambitious measures aimed at significantly reducing co2 and pollutant emissions across all modes. it will exploit digitalisation and automation, enhancing connectivity to the next level, and – last but not least – it will ensure safety and accessibility. our comprehensive strategy for sustainable and smart mobility will have to be unprecedented in ambition to achieve a 90% reduction in emissions by 2050. i want to share what i see as the four principles that will guide transport’s contribution to the european green deal. first: making the transport system as a whole more sustainable, making sustainable alternative solutions available to all citizens and businesses, respecting the polluters-pay principle in all transport mode and, not in the last, fostering connectivity and access to transport for all. therefore, in the upcoming transport strategy, i am planning to put forward measures in the following four areas of action. first, to boost the uptake of clean vehicles and alternative fuels for road, maritime and aviation. in this regard, we are already looking into specific initiatives to ensure the availability of marine alternative fuels and sustainable aviation fuels, second, increase the share of more sustainable transport modes, such as rail and inland waterways, and improving efficiency across the whole transport system. thirdly, incentivising the right consumer choices and low—emissions practices. fourth, investing in low-and zero-emissions solutions, including infrastructure. on the road to a climate-neutral europe by 2050, it is essential that sustainable and smart go hand—in—hand. digitalisation is not simply a means to an end. we must take full advantage of the opportunities presented to us by digitalisation and automation, for instance, by increasing traffic efficiency through artificial intelligence or reducing traffic hazards to a minimum, to name only a few. they are the key to cleaner, simpler, smart and safe mobility across all transport modes. digitalisation also opens the door to mobility as a service and the seamless combination of transport modes for a single journey, encouraging more people out of private cars and onto shared and more efficient forms of transport. we will, of course, be vigilant and watch out for any impact on jobs and skills. to make this happen, we need accessibility, affordability, connectivity. i am 100% committed to leaving nobody behind as we embark on this green and digital transformation. the just transition mechanism will be key here: it will mobilise eur 100 billion to address the social and economic effects of the green transition, focusing on the region’s industries and workers who will face the greatest challenges. the connectivity provided by transport is fundamental to freedom of movement in the european union. safety and security: it should go without saying that, while we must embark on a significant reduction of emissions from transport and harness digital opportunities for the sector, safety and security will continue to come first. our strategy will incorporate measures for maintaining the highest safety and security standards in the world of transport. when you talk about global leadership, a real market for the green digital solution is emerging, and i want the eu to be a global leader in these areas: from block chain and digital mapping and tracking, to connected and automated vehicles, trains, planes and vessels. to secure our position at global level, we need to take investment in research and innovation very seriously, and we need to work closely with the industry. this are some of my initial remarks on your questions, and of course i am looking forward to your questions and comments.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, thank you very much for your intervention. i also thank you for what you said you would do this year and i also thank you for including in the commission's programme many important dossiers for transport policy in the future. it was a very pleasant surprise for me. future transport policy must first ensure mobility and connectivity, both of which are so necessary for economic development. all the measures we have to take in the future must first ensure mobility and then they must also comply with the requirements of the green deal. there are things that you can do that don't have a lot of cost, not necessarily market measures, and i can give you some examples. for example, for rail transport, you have freight corridors, which are not developed to the level that they should be. you have to apply the existing regulation and at the same time ensure the harmonisation of all the regulations and standardisation in this very important mode of transport, because it requires the transfer from road to rail. for road transport, there must be a road map. predictability is necessary for both industry and consumers. we need to fill the road corridors. for aviation, the single european sky plus a new state aid regulation for airports will bring many improvements. and don't forget about transportation by waterways, inland waterways, which can bring economic development, but it can also bring emissions reductions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, colleagues, transport is responsible for 30% of greenhouse gases. it is the only sector that has not reduced its greenhouse gases since 1990 and, at the same time, no member state is complying with the paris agreements. this phenomenon has also triggered a second dynamic, which is terrible because we are facing the disease of the 21st century, in particular air pollution: 800 000 premature deaths every year. so, commissioner, you are talking about the green deal. i agree, but we must not make it a green washing! the ecology of illusion deserves the ecology of solutions. in this roadmap of the green deal for europe, we need to be bold, we need to be ambitious, we need to attack where it hurts. so yes, we're going to tackle some issues that hurt, but we need to get answers. first, the aviation sector: it is high time it joined the ets system. and we're going to go further to implement a real kerosene tax. it was your services that showed that a kerosene tax could bring to the state budget 27 billion euros a year. isn't that great for raising money to get back what we need? to revive freight, to revive in particular hard urban mobility with more public transport, more bicycle lanes? madam president, i will conclude very quickly: i do not accept or will not accept that the commission should have the courage to hand over to us a text on the eurovignette, a text which was torpedoed by the council and voted by parliament. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the key element of the union's mobility strategy should be the investment in environmentally friendly means of transport, especially public transport. we have modern european know-how, especially in the railway sector, as exemplified by the pes bull. it's worth investing in the development of these types of businesses. the future of transport also means intelligent vehicles and infrastructure that ensure maximum safety for pedestrians and drivers, and greater efficiency in freight transport, which cannot be achieved by limiting competition with a mobility package. the year 2030 is a very ambitious goal with such a complex and expensive agenda. in many regions, basic transport needs are still not met, there is a lack of safe roads, and the average age of cars in the european union is 11 years. i hope the commissioner remembers all this. a strategy of looking ahead cannot be a strategy of running away from the current problems we have encountered.
dear vice president, the railroad is a picture of a country, so if we want to see what a country is like, let's look at its railroad. when we talk about state transport, i am afraid that croatia is far from being ready for the future of sustainable transport, as evidenced by the facts from the croatian transport development strategy from 2017, which says: the railway fleet is on average older than 30 years, 70% of locomotives in the next ten years will reach the end of their working life. the age of the rolling stock is destroying the railway infrastructure. the maximum design speed is only allowed on 18% of the total track length. furthermore, speeds of up to 160 km/h are allowed on only 7% of the track and up to 100 km/h on only 12% of the track. the system's scheduled rebuild every eight to ten years has not been done for the past 35 years. the existing railway operations are not sustainable without state support. unfortunately, colleagues, this is what chronic decades of corruption looks like in practice. she's seen on the railroad.
madam president, commissioner, transport is a basic sector for the functioning of our economy, the internal market and trade, and its competitiveness is fundamental for manufacturing industries and the export of goods. without transport, there is no internal market, but, as the treaty states, it is also a fundamental element of territorial and social cohesion. the new strategy on mobility and transport, therefore, must take these elements into account, in addition to having environmental protection as its main objective. if we are to achieve the ambitious goal of achieving the total decarbonisation of our economy by 2050, we must reduce pollution and improve the air quality in our cities. we need safer, more sustainable and more efficient mobility, but also reforms; we cannot create more problems for citizens, we must, without a doubt, give them solutions. our cities will have to change to promote cleaner and more efficient modes of transport, incorporate alternative fuels, electrify transport and integrate new forms of mobility. and in that sense, it is necessary - and i want to do it here today - to highlight the plan of the city of madrid madrid 360: a comprehensive plan to achieve safe, sustainable, efficient and inclusive mobility. an example of how to do things right, which many cities in the union should take note of.
madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you commissioner for your hard work from day one and bringing back to normal the work of the directorate-general for dg move, including the legislative work, including the mobility package procedure, which in the past crossed some boundaries that shouldn’t be crossed. i know the future belongs to green policies. i know the future belongs to green transport but someone proposed, just a minute ago, that we should decrease airline routes, we should tax kerosene and, instead, we should be building bicycle lanes. i would like to see a bicycle lane between amsterdam and sofia instead of the plane. but now back to the topic. a lot has been said about co2 ceilings, about strategies, about priorities, i would like to say something about road safety. road safety and the roads are responsible for more casualties than any other disease which is attacking humankind now. so, we need safer roads and better education for drivers. this can happen only with eu funds with significant amounts in them, so we should provide safer roads in a better condition and a eu—wide strategy on how to educate young drivers.
mrs vălean, allow me to express my pleasure that you are here with us today. i'm sure you, more than any of us in this room, understand that sustainable mobility requires investment in green public transport, and at an accelerating rate. today, only 9% of the urban transport fleet in europe is electric. by 2035, we'll be over 50 percent of the population. but until then, it's 15 years. for these 15 years, cities like thessaloniki, my city, need reliable urban transport. urban transport is needed to provide citizens with a systematic and accurate service. the lack of such transport, combined with the ageing of the car fleet, which is reflected in countries such as greece, which were affected by the crisis, shows that there is a serious investment gap. this can be bridged by the participation of the new 2021-2027 budget, by mobilizing the private sector and by all the tools that the green deal gives us. we need targets that this time will be achieved. we need low-cost public transportation that is accessible to everyone.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course five years ago, and four years ago, we heard speeches of the same kind: what we need to do to have sustainable, sustainable, green transport. and tonight i heard a lot. the problem is that we've heard less about how to do this, and i think that's what we need to focus on. you said yourself, commissioner, that we must strengthen connectivity, but we must first create it, because we have areas that are disconnected. we need to see how we connect all of europe. it said here: there are countries that don't have highways, there are countries that have half or three-quarters of the railway network disabled. what's the schedule? how much funding does the transport sector receive in the new financial framework, because we will not be able to do otherwise, together with the member states? and there's one more thing. a lot of things are getting stuck at the council. the heads of state and government must understand that we work here in parliament in vain, we come up with projects, we come up with proposals, you come up with proposals, and everything gets stuck. only in a partnership between the member states and the commission can we really make transport sustainable and sustainable.
we know that the european union's zero road fatality strategy for 2020 aimed to halve the number of road deaths compared to 2010. unfortunately, that's not going to happen because, look, in 2018 alone, there were 25,000 traffic deaths, or about 500 people a week. among the countries where the most people die, unfortunately, along with romania, is croatia. the european union average is 49 deaths per million inhabitants, and in croatia, 89. and it's important to note that as many as 94% of all cases are caused by human error. so i think it's crucial, on the one hand, to invest in road infrastructure, but on the other hand, in advanced technologies in vehicles, in digital technology, in new opportunities to be able to reduce this terribly high death rate.
the agenda will then be followed by a minute's speaking time on a matter of political importance, in accordance with rule 172 of the rules of procedure.
madam president, as the representative of the capital city of prague, the capital of the czech republic, i would like to state that the czech republic, or prague, has accepted the call from european cities for the european commission to prepare a european regulation on short-term rentals, known as airbnb, and i would like to call on the european commission to start addressing this problem at european level. most european cities today have a major problem with short-term commercial leases, which lead to our european cities becoming depopulated in the centres, and we have an unjustified form of business that is detrimental to hotel owners and traditional formally registered accommodation facilities. i call on the commission to start tackling this issue, because it is better to have one central european regulation rather than particular regulations which will not be as effective.
if you look at what's left when you take away all these hateful things, we've listed them: non-hungarians, the others, migrants, roma, i don't know what, there's a terrifying pattern in the middle. these are white, christian, heterosexual men, and there are women among them. the above-quoted, shameful, racist statement that white, christian, heterosexual people are a terrifying grouping was made by the vice-president of the dk party, a member of the european socialists, and a former member of the s&d group in the european parliament. the statement of the head of the dk is grossly racist. it is unacceptable for anyone to be stigmatized because of his or her skin color, religion, or sexual orientation. we firmly reject the idea that the majority of europeans are racist and that they are a terrifying and provocative group. one of the vice-presidents of the european parliament, klára dobrev, is also a politician from the dk. we therefore expect a clear answer from klara dobrev when she is willing to join the democratic coalition and the european socialist group in publicly distancing herself from her party colleague's racist statement.
madam president, this will probably be my final speech in this parliament, so can i begin by – through you, president – thanking the parliament staff and their services and indeed my own staff as well, who’ve been truly brilliant through a difficult period of uncertainty. one of my biggest regrets is that as a student, as a young person, i didn’t do an erasmus exchange and i really wish that i had. in many ways, i feel my time in this parliament has been like my erasmus exchange, which sadly now comes to an end, and i want to use this, probably my final words in this parliament, to encourage young people to take those opportunities that the erasmus programme offers. i intend to continue to campaign to ensure those opportunities are still there for all young people in the uk, and that means continued and full participation in erasmus programmes in the future. brexit, in my view, is a historic mistake. it will come with costs and consequences. those consequences must not damage the chances and opportunities of the next generation. but i fear they will. we must now do all we can to make sure they don’t. so, thank you, and for now, from me, farewell and good luck.
madam president, the independence of the judiciary and respect for human rights are fundamental elements for the future of europe. the citizens' trust in the european union is also what will secure europe's future. but what do we do when we have states where the judiciary is not independent, where the decisions of the judiciary violate human rights? i'll give you a very concrete example, and i'll come back to this example: the case of the simic family. our romanian doctor in finland, who for three years has been separated in a hateful way from children. the children were abused. you can watch the video on youtube and you'll see how the masked men pick up the children, who are screaming in their mother's arms. these children are traumatized: two brothers, who were separated from their mother and from each other. now, recently, in november, they ran away. why did they flee the state institution? what is europe doing? how they let children and the rights of the child be disrespected, because here they are, 12 years old, and maria, and mihai, and they have no right to appear in court to express their point of view. on behalf of camelia simicală, on behalf of the two children, i ask you, commissioner, because she is one of us, to bring the children home, to their mother.
dear vice president, the 2021-2027 budget must be visionary, it must be a bold budget that encourages innovation and research, that encourages ecology and green policies and that absolutely encourages digitization. while in the united states, on the one hand, they already drive taxis without drivers, we are late. we are delaying the launch of programmes that are crucial for a competitive, successful europe and for all member states. as the rapporteur of the digital europe programme, i can tell you that the race has already started, and it is precisely the digital europe that is one of our key competitors or favourites in the global race. that is why i am asking the council to bring us a budget as soon as possible, to present us a budget that will have the determination and the wisdom to say no to cuts, to financial cuts to programmes such as digital europe that can contribute to a greater competitiveness of the european economy, but also to a better standard of living for all our citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this week is indeed a traumatic one for the european union. it’s a dramatic event that a member state would leave, and it’s an immensely sad one as well. but i refuse to accept this historic mistake as the end. it will neither it put an end to the friendship between the people of great britain and on the european continent, nor will we give up hope that the uk will return home at some point – here where it belongs, to the european family. but while this week is a very sad moment, it’s not a moment at all that brings us closer to any end of the eu, for example, as some who brought about brexit might have wanted it to: quite the opposite. if we didn’t have the eu already, it would now be the perfect moment to invent it, and the europeans have come together because there are problems that you can only solve together and because together they are stronger in whatever challenge appears in the world. and there are plenty of challenges today, and we need to address them together. and that’s why it’s so important this week also to discuss the work programme. this work programme will be the chance to prove what we are worth. commissioner, you mentioned in your speech the climate crisis, which is indeed a huge challenge that every state and every continent is affected by, and it’s high time for urgent action. we’re very happy that this commission puts an emphasis on initiatives tackling the climate crisis as well as the dramatic loss of biodiversity on our planet. it is, of course, way too early to say if they’re going to be sufficient; that will depend on the details of your proposals. but also it will depend on whether a majority of this house will support ambitious climate legislation, not to mention the member states as well, which we need to have on board. therefore, it will depend on all of us how much climate action the eu will undertake and how much the eu will contribute to the global efforts to save the planet after having contributed – actually, a lot – to its destruction in the past. the commission is also the guardian of the treaties, and you mentioned some action in that regard to make sure that member states don’t deviate from the rule of law, and it is time to put our common commitment into action. this year will show which way the commission is heading, and we need courageous steps forward into a new european union.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have always been very critical of the european commission. today i would like to make an exception and commend the european commission accordingly, because the programme that the european commission has presented is truly magical. they manage to just sweep away the whole issue of asylum and migration. they manage to get rid of the monetary problem with zero and negative interest rates. they manage to throw out the social and labour market question. but what you're doing is you're concocting a green deal to try and get more money out of people's pockets. if you are not too friendly, you could say that this is a harry potter commission. if you are less friendly, you might say that they are using political voodoo methods. ladies and gentlemen! yesterday the british left this union. i can only appeal to you: if the next country is not to leave this union, then you have to concentrate on the big and important tasks. these are migration and asylum, economy and currency, social and labour market. the community is expected to do something, not to be involved in some magically concocted side issue.
your honour, vice-president, commissioner šefčovič, in your commission's programme for 2020, you mentioned, among other things, the role of democracy in foreign policy. we have a lot of democratic standards on the agenda in indonesia, hong kong, bolivia, venezuela, african countries, but democracy is not developed enough in the countries of europe, here in our backyard. i'll tell you this from croatia. in 2014, we had 500,000 more voters than inhabitants. that's half a million more voters than the population of a country of some four and a half million people. today, the situation is, in theory, somewhat better, with only about 200,000 more voters than inhabitants. there were frequent votes of people who had died, that is, of the dead, it is possible to vote for other people, you can go to the polling station with several id cards, round up for those people, because nowhere does a voter sign, to really prove that this and that was at the polling station. furthermore, the electoral units are the result of electoral engineering, they are illogical, there is even an opinion of the constitutional court from 2010 which emphasizes that it is not, therefore, the same electoral right that some units are too large, some too small. all of this is something the croatian establishment doesn't want to change because it's what gives it its electoral advantage. it is this political system that is the generator of corruption in croatia and thus in europe. and that's why it's absurd that croatia has a commissioner for democracy.
madam president, first and foremost, i must commend the fast and efficient work of the new commission, and especially you, commissioner várhelyi. in my view, 2020 will be a decisive year for enlargement policy. if things go well this year, we could have at least one candidate country that is ready for full accession by 2025. looking at the first reactions in the western balkans and also in the member states, there is a positive anticipatory attitude on both sides and i think that’s a good sign. the new proposal can make the accession negotiations more political but also more efficient, especially with the help of the thematic clusters, which will definitely make the opening of chapters faster, and if a cluster is closed, by allowing access to certain eu funds, there would be a tangible difference for the citizens and also for the companies in the region. i would also commend the flexibility of the system, as it can be used for countries such as serbia, which is already well advanced in the negotiations. the cluster mechanism could significantly speed up the process. i wish you all the best and you can count on our support.
madam president, yes, i do welcome this proposal. we all know that south-east europe is important for the european union. you just have to look at the map and see that this is the only area in this part of europe that has not yet become, that is, included in the european union and is surrounded by the countries of the european union on all sides. it is also a fact that the geopolitical interests of different states have often overlapped in this space: turkey, russia, the islamic world, etc. and of course in this sense the european perspective for these countries strengthens the european union itself and also strengthens these countries themselves. of course, that does not mean that they should be allowed in unconditionally. the individual approach to each country is needed and it is necessary to honour those countries and governments which are truly pro-european, that is to say, which are pro-european in action and not just on paper. in that sense, i welcome once again this changed negotiating framework, i welcome credibility as a new emphasis. (the president cut off the speaker)
the enlargement policy is one of the fundamental policies of the european union and any body, any organisation that does not expand, that does not progress, but shrinks, that closes, it fails. for that reason, i am giving a big boost to north macedonia and albania in their european journey and i want to give them the green light before the zagreb summit. and to begin their european journey. i say we need to welcome them, and the other countries that want to join the european union, and help them to reform and give them strong support in doing so. commissioner, peace and security not only in the western balkans but in all of europe have no alternative.
the debate on the question with a request for an oral answer to the commission on automated decision-making processes: ensuring consumer protection and the free movement of goods and services, by petra de sutter, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, o-000008/2020 - b9-0007/2020) (2019/2915 ((rsp)) continues. as you know, you can use the cards for the catch the eye and blue card procedures, either through the traditional registration or through the electronic system.
member of the commission. mr president, madam president de sutter, thank you for your question, which is more than a question, because it covers the whole picture of what we have been working on for several weeks and even months now in the commission, concerning the issues you have raised, and in particular, of course, behind, underlying, everything concerning artificial intelligence, data management in a digital economy which is going to radically change our internal market. the question you are asking is how this evolution - this revolution, some would say - will not only change consumer behaviour but also enable us - this is what we are working on - to consolidate our whole internal market. the first word for this, the key word which was quite present in your speech, madam president, is of course to create a climate of confidence. it is true that today there is distrust of artificial intelligence. our citizens have questions, often legitimate questions, and we are here to try to provide answers - effective answers. it is in this spirit, as you have said, that the commission will present a white paper on 19 february, which will be a kind of targeted consultation, on which we will of course express our positions, but which is also the means of continuing the debate we have this evening and extending it to listen to all of you, but also to be able to find solutions together to this absolutely essential development which is now marking our times. first, it is obviously a question of framing the rules for the development of artificial intelligence in europe. on the other hand, it is also a question of ensuring that these rules allow us to foster the emergence of a european artificial intelligence industry. we've been working a lot, with my collaborators, with all my colleagues, over the last few weeks, and we really need to, together, ask ourselves the question -- you mentioned it earlier -- of course, about algorithms, when we talk about artificial intelligence, but also the question of data. it is obvious that data is, i was going to say, the fuel that will allow us precisely, by driving it through specific algorithms, to develop specific applications that will obviously intervene in the lives of our fellow citizens. the interest we will therefore pay to data, to data with added value, will be very important in the communication we will make. i would like to remind you, madam president, that we are not starting from scratch. a lot of work has been done, including legislative work, including in this parliament, of course. first, the legislation on consumer protection. it also covers business practices, as you have referred to, involving automated decision-making processes, which can also be invoked in cases of discrimination. similarly, the regulatory framework now requires traders to inform consumers, when the price is personalised - as you mentioned earlier - on the basis of an automated decision-making system. i would also like to mention, of course, the gdpr, which has been much discussed, and rightly so, and which requires that an impact assessment be carried out where the processing of personal data is likely to present a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. there are also other requirements that apply to automated decisions, for example in the context of electronic recruitment. it is obvious that we will have to be very careful to ensure that there is no discrimination, and therefore understand how these algorithms work, simply so that they respect the whole body of european values to which we are so attached. and of course, everything about human intervention which must, again, be able to allow us to possibly challenge the decision, allow our fellow citizens to challenge the decision if they consider that they have the right to do so. finally, i would like to recall the so-called platform to business regulation, which was adopted last year and which imposes transparency obligations on the ranking algorithms of online platforms and search engines. there is a lot of things, but of course we have to move forward and i would like to say that we will of course use all of them. we will also be considering together the adaptation of the directive on general product safety, the directive on machinery and the directive on radio equipment. the automotive sector will also be a very important topic in terms of artificial intelligence and automated decision-making. as you know, the legislator has already instructed the commission to look into the issue of the approval of connected autonomous cars, so we will continue along this path. it may also be necessary to clarify the general product liability directive in the light of the development of emerging technologies and the circular economy. finally, as you know, the preparation of the act on digital services, on which we are working, will enable us to examine more closely a series of algorithmic processes, for example recommendation systems, moderation algorithms, or, of course, a very important subject which has been the subject of much debate in this parliament, online advertising. i would also like to make a point, if i may, about professional services. the expertise proposed must not only be based on traditional qualifications, but also on a new kind of skill combination combining information technology, knowledge and, of course, expertise in each sector. i would also like to point out that the white paper we are going to be working on, which will be brought to your attention, will be followed by actions in the fourth quarter, as provided for in the commission's work programme, and that, of course, it is in this perspective that we really want to be able to work with you. i know that many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have been working on these questions for several months, or even for several years. it is very enriching for us, and for me in particular, and so through the white paper, we will have a platform to continue these exchanges.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the european commission has placed artificial intelligence as one of its priorities for this legislature. as we all know, artificial intelligence has many practical applications with enormous potential to improve the way our societies and economies function. for this reason, and this is why i am the first to advocate that it should be given priority in the european union, we must be careful. we've already missed the digital train when we were leading the technology market in its early stages with brands like nokia, who saw themselves falling behind by not paying attention and, above all, by not looking at it from the right perspective. europe was left hanging. today we cannot afford to go back to the same with artificial intelligence. to address this challenge, we must ensure the confidence of our consumers. europeans are not like americans or asians, here we put privacy and transparency before any digital experience. we must ask ourselves: what does the european union want to achieve with artificial intelligence? how does the european union intend to achieve this? and, above all, for what purposes? we ask the european commission to ask itself these three questions before starting any initiative and to find the right answers. transparency should be the cornerstone of any initiative related to this technology. without it, consumers will not have confidence and we will not achieve their development and therefore the competitive advantage it can give us over our competitors. only if we pay attention, look at it from the right perspective and are agile, will we lead the development of artificial intelligence and create the ecosystem that we europeans ask for and need.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i very much welcome the fact that this new parliament will adopt the first resolution on artificial intelligence (ai). i’m sure it is not the last one. automated decision—making is already affecting our lives. it is making our lives easier with new and better services, and making mundane tasks take up less of our time. if done correctly, they also have the possibility to reduce human bias and human errors in the decision—making process. but as with any new technology, there will inevitably be legal and ethical questions raised that we must be aware of. most of these issues can be addressed with the current rules; others may need to be adopted, but we need a measured approach. we need to resist the temptation of over—legislating too quickly for these fast—evolving technologies. this would not only hinder innovation and developments in europe, but also create more problems than it would solve. equally, we must not generalise our approach. the rules governing algorithms should be proportionate to the risk taken in using that algorithm. there is a difference between the algorithm of a power grid and the algorithm in a video game. to conclude, while humans must always be in the driver seat, let’s be guided by our heads and not by illogical fears.
for the group gue/ngl mr. chairman, the rapid development of artificial intelligence and automated decision-making technologies poses a huge challenge to our society. both from the point of view of law, morality, the future direction of humanity and the internal market. in binary code, we can find the same ills as in society. services and goods using artificial intelligence and automated decision-making carry the risk of misleading, discriminating or even harming consumers, for example in relation to differentiated prices. so artificial intelligence and automated decision-making may not lead to a flawless society of rationality, but rather to the entrenchment of the current unjust social state. a state where greed, deceit and perversion of justice prevail. we should therefore work to protect consumers from unfair or discriminatory commercial practices or from the risks associated with professional services using artificial intelligence. automated decision-making processes should be transparent and subject to oversight by competent authorities, which should have the appropriate means and powers to do so. it is necessary to set standards and targets, inter alia, in the area of data quality and to eliminate distortions in all data sets by introducing safeguards. the european consumer must not be left to the mercy of automated decision-making processes. it must be protected and that is why the commission should act.
mr. chairman, technology has advanced at an incredible rate in recent decades. i, though of a younger generation, sometimes can't really believe what's possible today that wasn't possible before. this is particularly true of artificial intelligence. while it does, of course, bring a number of benefits in the area of science and technology, primarily that it reduces the possibility of human error, it also leads to various new possibilities for the manipulation and misuse of collected consumer information. voice, fingerprint and facial recognition, automatic text translation, autonomous vehicles and home robotics are all benefits we now enjoy from advances in technology and artificial intelligence. however, there are many problems that have already been mentioned here in the debate and that need to be addressed by legislation at the european union level. it is important to note that it is always the law and the legal system that lags behind the development of technology and this should be taken into account. of course, there is a balance to be struck, on the one hand, not to put additional and excessive constraints on the development of entrepreneurship, especially when we see how much europe lags behind the united states and some other parts of the world, but at the same time to ensure full consumer protection. in this context, i would certainly stress the principle of the prohibition of aggressive advertising, since it must not be possible to offer new access options to websites with similar content or to offer unfavourable credit to indebted citizens as a result of analyses of the personal data of individual consumers, for example, gambling addicts. these are things that are definitely unacceptable and we have to fight against them. of course, personalized pricing that is also tailored to someone's profile is also dangerous and represents a form of abuse that needs to be fought. ultimately, the human always has to retain control over the autonomous decisions of the system, especially in the fields of law and medicine. so we need a balanced approach, a balanced approach, not to create hysteria, but also to address all the possibilities of manipulation in the right way and to bring regulation in the right way that will take all the conflicting interests into account.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we've probably only just begun to see the significance of artificial intelligence for our society. artificial intelligence has a lot of opportunities, but it also has a lot of pitfalls. when we talk about consumers, there is no doubt that i believe that the consumer has a right to know what kind of automated decisions are being made on his behalf, but also on what data basis. i think it is very important that you as a consumer have the opportunity to gain insight into this. i therefore believe that in the future work here in the eu we should have looked at whether there is no need to strengthen the eu's consumer protection legislation. i think that much more transparency is needed, better consumer protection, and also that we need to make sure that this automated decision-making process is more objective. it's going to be exciting to watch, and i think we should look at the possibilities. we're already on it. last term, we made some changes to the platforms legislation. the price portals are a good place to start. but i think we need to go further than that and we need to focus on protecting the consumer more with more transparency.
the commission has already done so. yes, there are big challenges that we have with these automated decision-making processes, because these are anything but neutral per se. it raises very big questions, ethical questions, that we also have to answer. so it's important and right that we talk about it. the algorithms on which these are actually based are not created out of thin air, but by people who are not neutral per se. the way they are fed is not neutral either. and that's why one of the very important issues in this context is transparency, so that the citizens, the consumers, can also know what this algorithm is made of and what data has actually been used to offer me this decision that i might have when buying a refrigerator, why i should take one brand and not the other, to take a very small topic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the community. we must also be aware of what is being done in these areas in the future.
mr president, commissioner, i listened with interest to your opening remarks. it is great that you are preparing and presenting a white paper on automated processes and artificial intelligence. we paid a lot of attention to this issue in the last term in the imco committee. it is great that the president is bringing this up here, because the debate must continue, and whereas in the last term we were more concerned with specific sub-themes related to automated processes, such as the issue of cars that drive without drivers, i believe that we now need to address the issue of comprehensive legislation applicable to the whole of the eu, which sets clear rules for the problems associated with the use of artificial intelligence. some of them have already been discussed here, consumer protection. the issue i consider to be of particular importance is the setting of rules for dealing with liability relationships. who is liable to the consumer for damage or other negative consequences caused by a product controlled by artificial intelligence? these are the things that we are only partially addressing today, where we do not have a clear comprehensive european response, and it is up to you to prepare such legislation. i am not in favour of an overload of european legislation, but i am convinced that in this area, in the field of advanced technologies, automated technologies and artificial intelligence, a uniform european legislation is necessary in order to continue the free movement of goods and services which are in some way linked to artificial intelligence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, automated decision-making by means of algorithms is playing an increasingly important role in our societies and in our lives. while they allow for a quick and certain outcome of a decision, there are many elements to be corrected to protect citizens and consumers, especially the most vulnerable, who can often be seriously harmed by errors in the process. think of a medical error or a bank's denial of a loan. we therefore call for algorithms to be transparent and impartial, designed with the diversity of our societies in mind, and also based on up-to-date and high-quality data. we call for citizens and consumers to be informed when faced with automated decisions, so that they are always human-reviewable and revocable, and for european legislation to be fully implemented and adapted where necessary to take account of possible gaps in consumer protection. the european digital path is and must necessarily start with people and not with profits. we therefore ask you, commissioner breton, to work accordingly and respect these principles.
mr president, i want to say that i welcome the debate that the rapporteur has opened. i like her approach, which is trying to be complex. as far as automated decision-making itself goes, there's certainly a whole range of benefits. progress, innovation, modern technology, i could make a pretty extensive list here, but i have to add to that list the drawbacks, the risks that are associated with automated decision-making, which requires the overwhelming perfection of such machine code decision-making based on programmed algorithms. this is indeed an extraordinary challenge and it has consequences. it's been said here, insurance, the question of liability and also i think the sanctioning penalties that will be triggered afterwards. we will be setting the tone for a whole range of member states and i think it is good that a white paper has been drawn up and that we have chosen this comprehensive approach. i welcome this debate, but i think we're still at the beginning.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner (speaking directly to the commissioner), artificial intelligence is about making all of us live and work better. and she should serve absolutely everyone. of course, we see the biggest applications in transportation solutions, in health care, in agriculture, in marketing, and so on. but i think the most important thing is that consumers need to be confident in the decision-making process and we need to ensure maximum transparency in this process. this is why i propose a new term, namely the label 'reliable artificial intelligence', which would allow for maximum trust of citizens in such processes, but also reflect clear procedures and standards, security and transparency. it is important to safeguard the personal freedoms of every citizen consumer, and artificial intelligence must be a welcome innovation full of trust of all consumers and without any possibility of any manipulation.
blue-card question. – you mentioned many problems that smes are facing, but i think most of these problems are actually at the level of national legislation, especially national procedural rules and national taxation rules. so my question is: do you think that, in order to get rid of these kinds of obstacles, we need to harmonise national taxation systems and procedural rules at the european level? because the only way to get rid of many of these obstacles is to have one common rule at european level, which would get rid of these kinds of national obstacles. so my question is: do you think that we need more harmonisation at the eu level?
mr president, we are talking about strategic projects for europe, but we must also say how they affect our fellow citizens and our households. i would like to mention here one project which unfortunately denies this green plan of yours and also denies europe as a space of the rule of law. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of aid granted to the company in question. it is an uneconomic, non-transparent and undemocratic project. the project is contrary to the spatial plans of the municipality and the primorje-goranska county, the project is contrary to the will of the citizens of the municipality and the county. this project ends the aarhus convention which allows citizens the right of access to information, which gives them the right to co-decide in environmental matters like this. how the project ended up on this list is unclear because it requires the interest of at least two countries to be here, and apart from two public croatian companies, no one has come forward. so, that's two and a half billion cubic meters of gas that we have nowhere to store, nowhere to sell, and nowhere to spend. and worst of all, article 12 of the special law defines that if there are losses, and there will be, they are passed on to the beneficiaries. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, last week in brussels we witnessed the launch of the european plan to fight cancer. and indeed, it was a phenomenal event where we heard many stories from people and patients in practice who showed how much the european union can make a difference in this regard. however, i hope that it will not be all words. in this context, i would like to stress that the european union has all the regulatory and financial instruments to make the fight against cancer a reality and to achieve quality results in this respect. one of the biggest problems, when it comes to fighting cancer, is the uneven access to health care in different regions. in this respect, there are great differences between central and eastern europe on the one hand and western and northern europe on the other. and i hereby call on the european commission, when drawing up the multiannual financial framework, to take these differences into account, to invest through cohesion policy and other instruments in the development of centres of excellence for the treatment of diseases in the countries of central and eastern europe in order to really enable and achieve this equal access to healthcare for patients in all countries of the european union.
madam chair, there are many reasons to reject this agreement. it should just be said that this contract, or contracts since we have a joint discussion, is written in a way that is tailored to the interests of the corporations. i'm going to say three things. first of all, the contract gives special rights to the investor, so it's an isds, or state dispute settlement mechanism, it's that when a dispute comes up, it's not a domestic court that has jurisdiction, it's some distant international arbitration court. there are many tragic examples here in europe, among the people of europe, where such a mechanism has proved harmful, i will just mention the abruzzo region, where the extension of the concession for hydrocarbon exploitation was refused and then the oil companies sued the region. or say here in dubrovnik where the investor in the srdja golf case lost in the croatian courts. he wasn't satisfied with that, so he filed a $500 million arbitration suit. this mechanism simply undermines its own institutions, as they are, and the sovereignty of the countries, and so will vietnam. imagine a big meeting between some municipality in croatia with a few thousand inhabitants and a dozen million kuna budget against some mega corporation in billions. just imagine what it would be like in vietnam. there is no mention here of the green plan the commission is so sworn to. also, as human and fundamental rights are being violated in croatia, for example, which the commission ignores, croatia is a member, imagine what will happen in vietnam. we in croatia know how it looks, the real environment is being destroyed, only the rich establishment.
the multiannual budget has been clearly misused, mr president, as we have seen. the british are leaving and the budget is suddenly going up again. the netherlands has been the largest net per capita payer since 2000. and now that contribution is even being increased by 62%, to 13 billion gross. that's a lot of money. this means 1 600 euros per year per household in the netherlands. that is priceless. then i ask myself: where are the members of the cda and the vvd to stand up for that dutch citizen? i've been sitting here all morning and i haven't seen anyone. i'll just grab my glasses and see where they are. there's one right there. have you spoken, ma'am, because you're sitting there like a pudding? so let me make it clear, and then let me speak for the dutch citizen. i said: prime minister rutte, use your veto. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is not used as a pretext for the creation of a new budget.
madam president, commissioner, at the european council table, the so-called 'net contributors to the budget' who should more properly be called 'net beneficiaries of integration' know that time is running out in their favour. they play on the pressure of the backlog in cohesion funds and the damage that this would cause to the countries that depend most on these funds to make a proposal that is, in fact, unacceptable inevitable. now, if it is unacceptable, it cannot be inevitable. for the cohesion countries, this is the moment to turn the tide, to remind those who refuse to make their fair share of the budget that integration which only produces inequality and divergence is doomed to fail. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the cohesion policy is not used as a means of reducing the disparities between member states. the so-called 'new budget priorities' are a way for the richer countries to go there to get more money. for the cohesion countries, this is the moment to realise that the day they decide to assert their dignity and sovereignty, they will have much more to gain than what they can get from the budget.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, and the establishment of a european environment agency. we in croatia have a plan to build 11 waste management centers, two of which have already been built, maristchina and kastion, and we have gotten nothing from them except pollution and a big increase in bills. now you're pushing these other nine. why do these capital failures occur? firstly, the wrong common environmental policy. let's just take germany and croatia. croatia has only 75 inhabitants per square kilometer, germany 230. there's also a big difference in income. we can't pay what you can. after all, we don't need to, we have some peculiarities of our own. there's also corruption, everything we do is backwards. instead of recycling as much as possible, it acts as if nothing is recycled. the centers are oversized, of course they are overpaid, because the point is to get as much money as possible for the clients of the croatian establishment. the end product will be rdf that we won't have anyone to sell. all this will be poured into the accounts of the inhabitants who go to heaven and thus empty croatia. what was not achieved in the patriotic war, croatia is being emptied through the expense of expensive.
the successful europe of the new generation is only possible through even stronger investment in both entrepreneurship and research, development, youth and education. we need to ensure the quality of our continent's adaptation to the digital revolution, but also prepare for an accelerated race to adopt new technologies with increasingly powerful global competitors. at the same time, the next seven-year budget of the european union must continue to reduce the economic and social disparities that unfortunately still exist between member states, since this is one of the key objectives enshrined in the very foundations of the european union. this is why the treaty on the functioning of the european union explicitly emphasises that special attention should be paid to regions facing serious demographic difficulties and to areas affected by industrial transition. we cannot ignore the negative demographic trends that are threatening the development of much of europe. it is time for the european budget to recognise that, for the sake of cohesion and for the sake of genuine equality for all european citizens, european instruments must also support the demographically vulnerable parts of europe even more strongly.
madam president, i have supported this investment protection agreement between the eu and its member states and vietnam. it's a deal that's different in character from the previous one. the eu is already the fifth largest investor in vietnam. vietnam is therefore an important partner for the eu and it is important that european investors and their investments in vietnam are protected. and this agreement sets clear rules. at the same time, these investments in vietnam will create new jobs and we expect vietnam to move closer to the eu not only in economic terms but also in human rights and living standards. there are about 60,000 vietnamese communities in the czech republic and we know that their situation is not easy. i believe that this agreement could motivate the vietnamese government to move closer to european values.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the resolution and therefore against the list of projects of common interest. why is that? i want to make it clear again that on this list, we are going to support about 50 gas projects 50 gas projects, and this in the age of climate change. the aim is to promote projects in all member states which are actually harmful to the environment. if we look at this in more detail, we have to say that this is not compatible with the paris agreement or with other agreements that have been concluded. and it is also a sign of poverty, because it means that the declaration of the climate emergency in the eu, which we have just made here, is being practically thrown to the devil. instead, money from the european budget is to be spent on gas, and we are in no way in favour of that. we need to have money for renewable energy sources, for example for cross-border electricity lines, which must be paid for. i am thinking, for example, of solar power from spain, which can be transported to the north of the european union, or even smart grids, which really need to be promoted. that would be important and is not compatible with what we have done here.
i am against this list of projects, madam president, because it includes the lng terminal in omisl on the krk. when you bring any good project to an uncorrupted country, it's likely to be good. and imagine now that you bring a bad project to a corrupt country like croatia, what's happening there. so, in the implementation of such projects, we have bribery, overpayment of projects, stifling of profession and science, collusion with relatives. it's the concept that i'm making money now, and that everyone else is going to suffer in the long run, and i'm not interested in that. that's a disastrous approach. i'm against all projects that burden croatian households. in croatia, due to the failed waste management systems, we already pay higher and higher prices for garbage and water, medicines and their prices are compared to the richest countries in europe. we have expensive and slow telecoms and we're among the worst in the digital development index. our gas prices are close to those in austria or italy with multiple incomes. taxes are so high and now we're still paying for plenkovic's failed projects that will raise the price of gas and electricity. no, thank you.
i am very pleased that the european union has clearly stated its priorities in the development of a new strategy for gender equality. it comes at a time when it is important to take strong steps to stop the regressive movements and the backsliding on women's rights, and to send the message that the european union today is not a union of equality, solidarity and tolerance. sexual and reproductive rights is one of the areas where there's been the greatest regression. the denial of medical care for personal beliefs, gender-based violence, legal discrimination, lack of sex education and other harmful practices based on patriarchal patterns undermine the very foundations of european democracy. i expect that by developing and implementing a new strategy, the european union will show that it has not abandoned its role as a progressive leader in the protection of human rights and that it will not back down from those who want us to live in some dark and sad times. it's our responsibility and we can't and won't fail this exam.
mr president, as we have heard today, security is one of the most important issues facing the citizens of the european union today, and as we know, there are many threats that exist, which consist of terrorism, organised crime and other illegal activities. in this sense, the falsification of documents is a very serious danger, because it allows people whose identity and identity we do not know to enter the territory of the european union, who may be terrorists, criminals or engage in similar illicit activities. so this system is good, it allows the exchange of information on specimens of documents and known methods of forgery between the authorities of the member states and it is precisely one of the answers to this question of security threats that is extremely important to european citizens. so i support the introduction and creation of this database, i support the strengthening of the security of the schengen area, which my country hopes to join soon, i thank my colleague mrs mezzoli for the great work she has done in this regard and i call for us to continue to work on strengthening the security of the citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, it is just unbelievable to me that here, for the i don't know how many times, we have to listen to lies, false information and fake news about so-called illegal push-backs by croatia. the only source of information for such claims are biased ngos that have their own political agenda of defaming croatia, the croatian government, compromising croatian entry into schengen and that their sources of information are based exclusively on the claims of the illegal migrants themselves whose identity is usually not known at all and we do not even know who they are, who have tried five or six times to illegally cross the border and now, because they have not succeeded, they are suing the croatian authorities without any evidence. no such case has been established by the competent authorities, by the courts, by the police supervisory authorities, etc. croatia monitors the external border of the european union, fights against illegal external migration, guards the 1300 km of the external border in a qualitative way and last year more than 20000 attempts of illegal border crossing were detected and prevented. i would also point out that last year alone, 995 illegal human smugglers were arrested. maybe it's this practice of the croatian police that bothers some people here and why they spread such lies and untruths. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. chairman, i've heard a lot of lies in my life, but repeating a lie a thousand times doesn't make it the truth. of course, people who try to play the asylum system, who try to use croatia to come to the territory of other countries, who do not come at all from war zones but as the minister of security of bih, mr. radončić, said, from countries that are not threatened at all, that are not at war, of course, such people who violate the laws tell untruths. these are your sources of information and these are people i honestly can't trust. you may be able to, but i can't.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr president, ms joveva, it is clear that all persons wishing to apply for international protection can do so, clearly, at official border crossing points and with, normally, personal travel documents. i would like to ask you, despite all these unfounded allegations that you make, why do you think that there is a minimum number of asylum applications in croatia, why do people who want to apply for international protection and are in bosnia and herzegovina not want to do it with their documents and do not want to do it at the official border crossing points.
the extremely difficult living conditions of migrants, but also the plight of the local population, testify to our unpreparedness to deal with migration. the earthquake scenes we see in greece, but also along the only land route to the european union, are not just a matter for the border member states, but really for the whole european union. croatia has also proved its heart and solidarity in the 1990s by taking care of over a million refugees and exiles, but also contrary to allegations of alleged inhumane treatment of migrants, the croatian police are still protecting the european border and rescuing migrants in life-threatening situations brought by traffickers and human smugglers. but at the same time, neither croatia nor the european union should give in to the political pressures we have witnessed in this debate, which seek to change the policy of effective border protection against illegal crossings, clearly, with full protection of human dignity.
madam president, in this digital era it is even more important to preserve the rights and dignity of children and protect them from online abuse. the internet is definitely a powerful tool with enormous opportunities, but it also comes with some risks and only with proper safeguards in place can we ensure children’s online safety and protect them from hate speech, misleading advertising or cyber-bullying. such safeguards can only be achieved with a wide collaboration of all stakeholders such as policymakers and technology companies. however, parents still have the most important safeguarding role as children continue to turn to their parents for help with online issues. we should therefore ensure a safer online environment where children can safely enhance their education, communication and connections.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. rarely do we see a situation in politics that is as black and white as this one. there is no explanation here, and there are no circumstances that would justify this situation. i think that all of us, or almost all of us, have children, grandchildren, and we remember those children as being in their late teens or even younger. let's see if they could work. of course not, i'm not so i think that here in this matter we should go beyond the divisions - and that is what we are doing - and take a very clear voice, the voice of moral opposition, but also the strict political pressure, so that such a situation is not possible. our economic and humanitarian aid to that country must be conditional on the cessation of such practices.
author. – madam president, while we talk here indeed there are 11 000 children breathing the dusty air of the mica mines in madagascar. some of them are just five years old. they endure most unhealthy unsafe working conditions in the hope of earning a living for their families. how much longer can we ignore the fate of children mining mica for our companies? as the second highest importer of mica from madagascar, the european union, and in particular estonia, have to take responsibility to establish a precise legal framework so that our companies possess only ethically-sourced materials. we need binding legislation on due diligence if we want to be serious about a zero-tolerance policy towards child labour as a concrete reality. we must implement fair trade policies that encourage the trade of ethical products, striving to fulfil the united nations sustainable development goals. we urge the commission to start a specific dialogue also with china and other important importers of mica and with the government of madagascar to work together to tackle and eliminate the exploitation of child labour in madagascar by 2030.
author. – (start of speech inaudible) this resolution parliament strongly condemns the unacceptable use of child labour in all its forms. we remind the malagasy authorities of their responsibility to uphold the rights of children and guarantee their safety and integrity. a significant number of children are active in mica mines. the rise in exports of this resource, combined with a significant decrease in the price per tonne, has aggravated the risk of labour exploitation. working conditions in the mines are usually deplorable and threaten the life, health and safety of children. they are constantly exposed to chronic respiratory infections, severe injuries and dehydration and face psychological and physical abuse. elimination of poverty is the only way to create the conditions necessary for the eradication of child labour. this requires a comprehensive approach and targeted measures in the areas of education, employment and social protection. madagascar has made some progress by adopting a new decree reinforcing legislation against child labour and raising the legal age for employment from 15 to 16 years. in addition, madagascar is revising its mining code, and we call on the government to prioritise the compliance with its international commitments, including in terms of social and environmental standards, decent work and respect of human and children’s rights. however, so far, the authorities have failed to apply sanctions due to a lack of resources for effective monitoring and poor law enforcement capacity. we as the european union can also do our part. with this resolution, the parliament calls on the eu to step up its support for projects and initiatives aimed at combating child labour in madagascar. the eu has been actively committed to the fight against child labour through its development and trade policies, and this approach would be fully in line with the european commission president’s pledge to have zero tolerance for child labour in eu trade policy. nobody – and certainly no child – deserves to work in inhumane and life-threatening environments. the fight against child labour and exploitation remains an essential element of our political approach, and with this resolution we send a strong message to the world.
- a writer. president. - we all know the images. we've seen them before. children in the mines. i saw them with my own eyes. children in a row, from smallest to largest. almost like school, but it was to work in the mine. it was to see who was just small enough to go into that creepy dark tunnel. if you've seen that, i swear to you, you'll make it a priority to eliminate child labor by 2025. if you look at the numbers: 152 million children worldwide are in child labor. that's one in ten children worldwide who are going to work instead of going to school, instead of going to play. that's why i want to thank all my fellow indians. it was a difficult negotiation, we can say that here. it was a very tough time, with a lot of women and a lot of women's power, but we made a strong resolution about madagascar, about the 11,000 children in the mines. let's help madagascar, one of the poorest countries in the world, to eliminate child labor. one in two kids work there. but let us also take our own measures here as europe. i would like to say to the commission: mrs ursula von der leyen, of whom i am a fan, has promised to make this a priority. i ask you: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. the uachtaráin is one of the few institutions which is directly elected by the parliament, but has a special role to play in the work of the parliament, especially in the work of the parliament in madagascar. boys and girls are so much older than five years old and work in the mines. about sixty-two percent of the students are under eight years of age. it's scandalous that you don't give them a chance to go to school and then they'll ask you to use them. they are harmful to health, especially to the skin, they do not harm the heart, they are often used to treat an infection. therefore, it is right and appropriate to go ahead with the end of the current laws and regulations, in order to put an end to child labour by 2025. the goal is to make us happy, but if we fail to do it, we will be happy.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i am very upset about the debate we have today. i agree that child labour in madagascar is unacceptable, but, ladies and gentlemen, when it was necessary to vote on a law on compulsory due diligence, that is, the duty of vigilance of companies, the right wing - the renew group - the epp group - voted against it! when yesterday chapters on sustainable development, with sanctions, were to be added to prevent child labour in vietnam, the renew group and the epp group voted against! when it comes to fighting for corporate responsibility and corporate traceability in international trade treaties, the renew group and the epp vote against! when it came to establishing the traceability of blood minerals, the epp group and the renew group - in part, but not all - voted against it! then listen to me! excuse me, but working against the children's work and making a resolution that is not binding in any way, is pure hypocrisy. i will support it because it is important, but i think it is hypocritical for our parliament to have an attitude like that.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, madam commissioner, 47% of malagasy children aged 5 to 17 are working, instead of in school. not only are they deprived of an education but for many, they risk their lives on a daily basis in dangerous jobs such as mining. every child has a right to an education, a right to a standard of living that supports their physical, mental, and social development. child labour violates these rights. the eu has committed to ending child labour by 2025, but this means five more years of suffering for millions of children in madagascar and beyond, and many more lives lost and futures ruined. let’s put an end to child labour even sooner. let’s do everything we can to support countries to accelerate their implementation of legislation and actions that will achieve this goal. so the renew europe group says let’s put the commitments of the commission into more meaningful action.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the human and environmental price of our modern telephones and shiny cars is obviously becoming really intolerable, because we know that it is produced with child labour – with forced labour – without any knowledge by the consumers of where these products actually originate. if the parliament really takes itself seriously by today calling for any part of their production from these mines to be directly or indirectly brought into the eu market, we can only think of the mandatory human rights due diligence, which that the chairwoman of the subcommittee on human rights has referred to. so let’s not be hypocritical: if we want to eradicate child labour, we can do it, but we need to put the instruments in place, and there’s nothing better than mandatory human rights due diligence legislation at the eu level.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. child labour in the republic of madagascar is a widespread problem. over 230,000 children are exploited in the mining industry. children as young as 10 are being employed in gold, stone and sapphire mines. as a result, they often live in poverty, suffer from respiratory problems and diseases such as malaria, and are forced to work in dangerous conditions. although the malagasy authorities have introduced a law regulating the working conditions of children over the age of 15, its scope and enforcement are insufficient to address the problem. we call today on the republic of madagascar to respect the rights of children, to guarantee their safety and adequate education, and to act in accordance with its obligations under international conventions and agreements. we also call on the commission to ensure that the future european union strategy for africa is based on ambition in line with the sustainable development goals and emphasises the rights of the child.
madam chair, the fact that in madagascar children work 12 hours in dark, hot and poisonous pits for 40 cents a day is a disgrace to all of humanity. that's not the only example. in the congo, the cobalt miners, and the chinese who mostly process it, are also exploited. the collective name for all this misery and injustice is neoliberalism. it's an outdated and failed system that destroys everything national, social, traditional and ecological. it's a system that for the profit of a few today destroys the future of all. it's a system that undermines society and the environment and is an enemy of all life on earth. it's a system that is the antithesis of the sustainability that's so much talked about here. we must look to the future for a radical change in the financial system and the decentralization of ownership of raw materials, food and energy.
member of the commission. – madam president, in recent months we have seen some serious and disturbing revelations about the exploitation of children involved in mica extraction in madagascar. we cannot tolerate a situation where children are forced... (the president interrupted the speaker to call for members to take their seats)thank you. we cannot tolerate a situation where children are forced to work in horrendous conditions and are deprived of an education. prompt action is needed, but we also need to address root causes. on the nearly 46 000 tonnes of mica which madagascar exported in 2018, more than 91% was shipped to china, according to the international trade centre. the principal question to address is therefore one of due diligence in the supply chain. however, boosting the capacity and accountability of state institutions in madagascar, including through our development cooperation will also be key. as many members will be aware, the eu has already taken positive action to address supply chain risks in relation to the so-called conflict minerals, such as tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold, and the eu regulation covering due diligence for these will come into force next year. (the president again called for members to take their seats quietly)we cannot stand by while child labour - an oxymoron as robert biedroń rightly put it - child labour in the extractive industries continues. there is an urgent need for international companies sourcing mica and mica-based products, as well as the malagasy government to take responsibility for addressing the problematic conditions, and for contributing to improving the fulfilment of children’s rights. the european union has a long-standing and clear position on due diligence. not only governments but also private actors have a role to play. the european parliament hosted an important event in november 2019 in which the urgency of addressing child labour in mica mining was prominently raised. commission president von der leyen made it clear that the eu has zero tolerance for child labour. the eu led the tabling of a resolution on the rights of the child, adopted in the united nations general assembly 3rd committee last year, where 2021 was declared the international year for the elimination of child labour. the commission will shortly publish a study on due diligence requirements through the supply chain. it examines existing regulation and proposals, as well as options for regulating due diligence in companies own operations, and through the supply chain for adverse human rights and environmental impacts, including relating to climate change. in a single market, it is not practical to have different national treatments, and the benefits of an eu-wide framework are obvious in terms of levelling the playing field and creating legal certainty for companies, as well as reaping opportunities stemming from the sustainability transition. the eu is of course also fully behind a multi-stakeholder initiative to address supply chains risk, and in particular child labour. we will continue to work spanning trade agreements, development projects and other international cooperation, in madagascar and elsewhere, to tackle root causes such as the social and economic vulnerability of individuals, workers and their families that put children to work. (applause)
in writing. madagascar is the third largest mica exporter in the world, with estimated revenues of usd 6,5 million in 2017. almost 90% of all mica mined in madagascar is exported directly to china, where its price is almost 500 times higher than the initial value when it is shipped to china. but this lucrative business operates at the expense of minors and children. half of the 20,000 people working in mica mines are children involved in the extraction and sorting of mica, and only 30% of malagasy children have access to primary school, leaving them with no chance of breaking out of the vicious circle. the extraction and processing of mica is considered one of the worst forms of child labour, mainly because of the risks involved. children as young as five years old are working in very harsh conditions, with low oxygen and high dust levels, exposed to silicon, carrying heavy loads and tools. the exploitation of minors for work in all its forms is unacceptable and those responsible should be held accountable.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. can you ask the services to put a spam filter on our emails, because we've been overwhelmed in the last few months with all kinds of emails that are all the same. we can easily take technical measures to counteract this. there's no point in receiving 600 identical e-mails, and it's getting in the way of our work. (applause from the centre)
mr president, my voting machine didn’t work in the last vote – it’s true – so you must count my vote too, please.
mr president, a sneaky way of winning, but ok.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on road safety (2020/2563(rsp)). i remind you that it’s possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance to the hemicycle.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for putting on the agenda such an important topic for you and for myself as a commissioner for transport, especially because you are giving me the opportunity to share my thoughts with you before i travel to stockholm on 19 february for the 3rd global ministerial conference on road safety. it is our duty to do everything needed to protect the lives and well-being of european citizens. 25 000 people who lose their lives on european roads and 135 000 suffering severe injuries, are numbers which are unacceptable for us and of course we need to do more in terms of action and support. road safety will therefore be a priority in my mandate and, with your help we can make it a priority for the whole union. let’s not forget though that europe has made enormous progress in road safety over the last decade. we are the safest region in the world and we have a lot of experience and good practice to share. this is an opportunity for true european leadership. globally 1.35 million people are dying on the roads every year. in fact, road crashes are the biggest killer of young people worldwide. the global target to reduce road fatalities by 50% - part of the sustainable development goals - is expiring this year, and this target was not and will not be reached. this must not mean that we are ready to reduce our ambition. europe needs to be at the forefront of supporting a new ambitious global fatality reduction target and i intend to say this very clearly in stockholm. the swedish minister for infrastructure intends to present in stockholm a so-called ‘stockholm declaration’, which calls for renewed efforts and a new global target. i very much support this declaration and i hope that it will be adopted as it is planned. the next step will be a resolution at the un general assembly. the commission will also very much support the process leading up to such a resolution, including through our offices in geneva and in new york. ultimately, what counts is results. in europe, we are implementing the safe system approach, which is a holistic system building cooperation, good governance and shared responsibility. it addresses all areas – infrastructure, vehicles, behaviour and post-crash care. the safe system accepts that human error will happen and compensates for it. drivers and other road users will continue to make mistakes on the road as they do elsewhere, because to err is human and distractions, alcohol and drugs increase the risk of error, but no road user deserves to die because of a mistake. as you know, the eu transport ministers have unanimously supported our new eu-wide targets to halve the number of fatalities and for the first time serious injuries by 2030, and the commission has followed up with an ambitious action plan. the first concrete actions have already been taken. last year, thanks to strong support from the european parliament, we strengthened the eu rules on both safe infrastructure management and vehicle safety. we’ll continue to promote ambitious legislation in this mandate and i look forward to discuss with you details in the future. but in the meantime, let us work in partnership which is indeed the essence of the safe system approach to road safety. as legislators you are well equipped to push us all, the commission, the member states, industry, ngos, to deliver on more ambitious targets and of course, to promote ambition in action in our constituencies. looking ahead, it is clear that mobility is going through profound change. climate change demands that we reduce emissions, while digitalisation is opening up new opportunities for easier cleaner and safer mobility. as society shifts, so will the focus of road safety. we need to look at new transport trends in towns and cities and what they mean for vulnerable road users, and we need to consider the implications of autonomous vehicles. we need to drive the change and make sure change does not hamper our zero-victims vision. i look forward to a good exchange with you this afternoon and i really appreciate the fact that you put this point on the agenda.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i opened a newspaper today and this is what i read in bold: ‘in the first 40 days of this year, 100 pedestrians were killed by cars on polish roads. sixty percent of those mortal traffic accidents took place at pedestrian crossings’. i’m also happy that we put this point during today’s session, because road safety is a matter of life and death in the most literal sense of the word, and the situation on our european roads is dramatic. so last year the european union adopted the world’s most advanced mandatory vehicle-safety requirements, the general safety regulation. you will remember that it will become applicable in july 2022 and will reduce the number of deaths on the roads significantly. but many say that even the best technical solutions will not improve the situation on the roads if the road users behave in an irresponsible way. i hear very often that the european union must educate. but, unfortunately, the european institutions do not have competences in education, tv and radio programmes, the organisation of driving licence courses etc. we must cooperate with our member states much more closely in order to achieve a significant reduction in fatalities on the roads. yes, commissioner, it is our aim to achieve the vision zero goal and we should prepare a detailed roadmap of how to achieve this as soon as possible. we have positive examples from cities like london, helsinki and oslo. they have managed to reduce, or even eradicate, the number of fatalities in road accidents. let us profit from those examples, and much success to all of us.
on behalf of the renew club. madam president, madam commissioner, every day 500 people die on the roads of europe. sadly, most of us have probably lost someone close or dear to us at some point in our lives, and surely each of us fears on a daily basis for the safety of our children and families. we are afraid because we are aware of the dangers of traffic, but we are also aware of how unnecessary these deaths are, we are aware that they can and should be reduced and even completely eradicated. according to a world health organization report, up to 1.35 million people die on european roads each year, and even more worrying is the fact that accidents are the leading cause of death for young people between the ages of 5 and 29. in 2018 alone, there were 25 000 road deaths and 135 000 serious injuries in europe. and that is an unacceptable and unnecessary human and social cost of mobility. the fact is that the current medium-term objective of a europe with a vision of zero, i.e. halving the number of road deaths from 2010 to 2020, will not be achieved. we've set ourselves too ambitious goals again that are not achievable. of course i agree that the goals should be motivating, but they also have to be realistic and achievable and the countries that are, unfortunately, the least safe when it comes to road traffic are romania, bulgaria and croatia. these are also countries with twice the number of road accidents as the european average, and it's not true that people in these countries don't know how to drive or drive worse than drivers in denmark, norway or the netherlands. it's true that people in romania, bulgaria or my country, croatia, have much worse fleet, they have older and more unsafe cars, older and more unsafe roads, which lead, unfortunately, to deaths. commissioner, there is no revolution in road safety without new breakthroughs in the technologies that will be used in transport and without investment in road infrastructure. and the technology is there, the technology is improving every day, and it's up to all of us how fast we need to take that available technology and start using it. new technologies like the sharing economy and autonomous driving are already in use, and i'm sure they're a great solution for the burdened european environments that are also affected by the various diseases that we're dealing with here in different european cities from the emissions. new technologies in robotics and automation in traffic can drastically reduce the human error factor that is responsible for over 90% of all road accidents, and if we are to truly achieve the vision of zero fatalities by 2021-2030 we need to continue building a safe system at member state level. in addition to designing and maintaining infrastructure, 'fault-tolerant roads' are key to significantly reducing the severity of an accident if it does occur, but we also need to encourage fleet renewal, reduce tolls and taxes on euro ncap five-star cars because this is where the risk of injury is the lowest. last but not least, let's educate our citizens. i feel that we are all forgetting this extremely important part of the fight for greater road safety. it may not sound as attractive as building infrastructure or implementing new technologies, but it's very important because most of the young people on the road today are a danger for the reason that they're not aware of how important it is to be educated. commissioner, we will no longer accept any deaths from air accidents. please make this a priority in your mandate and in the car, truck and road traffic.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in extraordinary times, we must have the courage to take extraordinary action. my country, italy, has taken the responsibility to take drastic measures without precedent to try to stop the spread of the contagion. but the alarm about the impact of the coronavirus on the health of european citizens and on our economies needs to be taken very seriously across europe. everyone has to do their part: europe as well. the commission's first steps were necessary. however, excluding the expenditure to deal with the epidemic from the deficit calculation is not sufficient: our already weak economies will not withstand the impact of the coronavirus if europe does not immediately equip itself with the structural investment policies needed to get back on track. but let me be clear: the sooner we stop the contagion, the sooner we stop the economic collapse. the commission shall draw up a joint action programme; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be the european central purchasing body for the procurement and distribution of materials for prevention and treatment, thus avoiding unnecessary and harmful competition between states. the coronavirus is another emergency that tells us that nothing today can be tackled only within national borders. we need more solidarity between states. the most significant image of these difficult days is that of a nurse in an intensive care unit of an italian hospital who, after a grueling shift, rests her head on her desk and still wearing gloves, her mask and gown collapses exhausted. i look at this parliament today, i look at the commissioners, i look at the presidency of the council with that image in my eyes: this is the time for all of us to make bold choices! it's time for everyone to make some extraordinary choices!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus is endangering the lives of many citizens in all european countries. health protection is therefore a top priority: to achieve this, the european institutions must develop a common strategy to combat the spread, support the rapid supply of medical devices for treatment and fund research to find a vaccine that can eradicate the virus. unfortunately, the health emergency is already having a serious economic impact: we must support the productive system, launch a major public investment plan, enable the member states and economic operators to take extraordinary measures to protect jobs, guarantee liquidity, protect national budgets from speculation. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tens of thousands of doctors, nurses and researchers are working non-stop to save lives, working long shifts and without days off. europe, and we ourselves, must live up to the generosity, the selflessness and the professionalism of these women and men.
president sassoli is acting on the best advice from our medical services. this is an evolving situation and we all have personal responsibility to cooperate with the measures.
madam president, hello and hello to all. member states have reacted to the coronavirus in different ways. i don't think we can assess at this point what the good and bad things have been, but we're finding that we're not prepared and we're not equipped to deal with this kind of health crisis. the commission has invested millions of euros in research and has tried to coordinate member states' responses. but citizens remain concerned and have questions. and for good reason: we do not know whether the measures taken are really proportionate, we do not really know what the commission has indicated and we do not know whether the care given to citizens is the same everywhere. what about access to testing and reimbursement in the different member states? this crisis is also an opportunity to question ourselves, to question our health systems, because they are fragile and unable to respond to epidemics of this magnitude. in the name of austerity, europe has not devoted support or investment to coordinated health systems. if this crisis teaches us anything, it is the urgent need for a social europe that invests in access to the best care for all.
madam speaker, fellow members, we are in the midst of an unprecedented campaign of fear. this campaign must stop now. the data on cases and deaths are presented to the citizens of europe and the citizens of the world without comparison with other diseases. for example, four thousand people have died from coronavirus infection so far. every year, according to the world health organization, between 300,000 and 650,000 people die from influenza worldwide, 150 times more than that. i call on you to use common sense, not to close the doors of parliament because it sends a message to everyone, that is to say to the employees in the grocery stores, pharmacies, petrol stations that they too have the right to close their workplaces. that will be the end of the world and europe as we know it. we don't participate in spreading fear, we present the facts as they are.
madam vice-president, first of all, i would like to take this opportunity to express my sympathy to all those affected by this virus, and also my support for all health workers across europe and the world who are fighting this disease. it is a huge humanitarian problem, with more than 500 deaths in europe alone, more than 15,000 infected so far, but one that is already having a huge and very serious impact on the economies of all the member states, some more than others. the european union has done what it could in the circumstances, both the commission and croatia through the presidency of the council. however, what this crisis has shown is that we need a european health policy. the fact that article 168 of the treaty limits european powers in this respect, but i believe that a lot can be done within the framework of the current powers, but also that it is necessary to think about increasing the powers of the european union in the field of health. i'm thinking primarily of the shared protocols. i'm talking about more investment in research and development. also, what was mentioned before the debate, which is the standardization of health care delivery in different countries. these standards are very different today depending on the financial capability, and i think the european union can do a lot through its financial instruments, through the budget, through the european investment bank to help the member states to ensure that all citizens of the european union have the same standard of health care. and finally, what is particularly important is to show solidarity with those who are most affected, both with italy and with other countries that will suffer great damage, including my country croatia, which is already suffering great damage in tourism, which is very important for its economy, so we need european solidarity. let us show that the european union can make a difference and help all the citizens of europe.
madam president, i’m not going to repeat all the wise things that have already been said. what i want to raise is the issue of social security. we are calling on people to isolate themselves if there is a suspicion of the virus, but not everybody can follow the advice. those who live in working poverty and those in precarious working conditions just cannot afford to stay at home. at the end of the day, they will, but at what cost? i believe that we will succeed and in the coming months will get rid of coronavirus, but we have to learn the lesson. decent working conditions and affordable healthcare are not just slogans to win elections, and country—specific recommendations in the field of social policy are not just useless paperwork. we have to push member states to follow them, and to ensure that each european feels safe, even during a crisis, to get real help when needed and not to depend on small amounts of money that they earn daily, while putting their own health and the health of their family members at risk. we have to stand up for those who are exploited right now and who are the most vulnerable, while we are doing everything to protect our own health.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the whole world and the european union today are facing an immeasurable battle, namely that with the coronavirus. the medical authorities, who deserve all our appreciation, are involved to the fullest capacity to treat the sick. medical research is making huge efforts to identify effective treatments to combat it. but we must understand that the answer to combating it is not just in the hands of the authorities. each of us must be aware of the importance of fighting this virus, which knows no borders, and respect the decisions of national authorities. it is important that the public does not panic and that they have confidence in the decision-makers' ability to react. the economies of many member states will certainly be affected. this should not prevent us from being in solidarity with each other and prioritising our health spending, and medical research needs to be stepped up with financial resources made available by the european commission. we are obliged, at the same time, to show our full solidarity with the areas most affected by this virus. today it is italy that is most affected, but tomorrow it could very well be germany, france or romania. whether we are talking about the civil protection mechanism, or whether we are talking about any other financial resource or medical equipment made available to the affected areas, we must remember one thing: nothing can be too much when it comes to saving human lives.
commissioner lenarcic, you are very welcome. i'm not sure. i fully agree with your report and i myself say that we must be responsible, that we must act efficiently and proportionately. we must not panic, we must not look for solutions, and given the health situation in europe, which is alarming in some places, we can expect this virus to spread in others. and we also have to remember our businesses, our economy, which will certainly suffer a lot. as i said, measures must first be effective within individual countries. but we also need an effective, responsible european response, and i believe we will do so in the coming weeks. i think it is right that the european parliament should address this issue and that we should also stand by those who do so much for our people, most notably the health sector.
madam president, i don't want to talk about the health aspects of the coronavirus here today, but i do want to thank all of you who are working around the clock to contain the spread of this very nasty disease. what i want to talk about today is economics. i would like to ask for very concrete action by the council and the commission to save many jobs. and that is, in parallel with the fight to stop the spread of this epidemic, we really need to think about jobs because i'm afraid we're going into another recession. i fear that europe is heading for another great economic crisis. so we need solidarity, we need european solidarity to prevent the spread, but also to help the member states, especially those dependent on tourism like my country, croatia. and that is why i am calling on the commission to very concretely and with funds, but also in words with the prime ministers to resolve this situation.
for the ecr group the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. the european conservatives and reformists group has of course always respected the interests of the member state, including budgetary matters. at the same time, we are interested in the european union's overall strength. and that is why we are working in this debate group and in the contact group in the european parliament. and we will continue to do so. but if we look at the february european council, the fact that there was no result in the first round is not in itself significant. but the question is, on what scale, what signals are being sent to both european citizens and, of course, to global competitors or geopolitical competitors. they see that they cannot agree on a small budgetary share of what the government sells from revenues. that's only 1% of the national product. the 7% brexit gap, it turns out, is so big that it can't be filled either. and money is ultimately what shows the seriousness of the purpose or the priority. and in this case, if we see that military mobility expenditure from the european commission's original figure of 6 billion is now at best one and a half billion, it does not demonstrate the geopolitical seriousness of being responsive and protecting the european union. and then there are the figures for the cap, for the big reduction, the transfer of money from the second pillar to perhaps the just transition fund, and in this case also to the cohesion countries, which in many cases lose minus 20% against the current financial perspective. this is a very, very weak signal, and it shows our weakness. in fact, these technical marbles have a certain symbolism when it comes to the multiannual budget in parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, listening to mr charles michel, who has just left the chamber, and mr šefčovič, i think we have a european leadership that is below the circumstances, because at the time when a crisis is raging on the borders of my country, greece, and turkey, which are also euro-turkish borders, we have heard nothing about the european asylum policy that the european parliament and the commission have been calling for for two years and which is blocking the council, because we see a european leadership that is keeping equal distances from erdogan and one of its member states, greece, and because we have heard nothing about the fair relocation of refugees to all european member states. mr. kurz said , "i don't accept unaccompanied children or women, because if the children and women come, the men will come too". if you, gentlemen of the european leadership, think that with a few million euros you can turn my country, greece, into europe's backyard, so that you do not have problems with the extreme right in your countries, you are being laughed at. that is how you destroy europe and feed the far right. the european budget for the next few years is simple. all the political groups must remain committed to what president sassoli has said: we reject the council's proposal, and you, mr cioloş, must convince mr rutte not to force you to abandon the position of renew europe, and mr weber, who is not here, must convince mrs merkel not to do the opposite. we will not vote on an unacceptable budget with a gun to our head.
madam president, we cannot separate the multiannual financial framework and the budget of the european union from the other side of the story, which is how much each country benefits financially from operating in the common market. the best example is germany. so germany has paid an extra 115 billion into the eu budget over the last ten years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. there has to be an increase in the percentage of spending relative to gdp because that's the fairest. so countries that earn more as a percentage of gdp have to contribute more to the eu budget. it's the only fair and the only just thing to do.
madam president, the european citizens are tired of this game around the european budget. we need a quality multiannual financial framework for the future, we need a budget now that responds to the needs of european citizens. we need to start the next programme quickly, there should be no more delay of a year or even two, and we need, basically, continuity. we need the european institutions to react in a coherent way. on the one hand, the european commission should be more involved, more active. it is not normal that he accepted the proposal put forward by the president of the european council. it is not right that he has not sufficiently defended the european citizen in these negotiations. on the other hand, the president of the european council has come up with an unacceptable proposal and has put on the table a proposal which has not been discussed with the european parliament, which we cannot accept and this is clear from today's debate. we're not talking about money allocated to the european union, we're talking about money that we allocate to, the member states, to develop this european union, to respond to the major crises that we face, and we need to think about this budget in a constructive way, focused on development, focused on sustainable development.
madam chairman, budgeting is never an easy job. i can tell you this as a former mayor and as a former mayor, but if you do something with a lot of sincerity and good faith, then it's possible to reach an agreement, but to do that, you have to calm the different egos, you have to definitely remove the duplicity and you have to believe in clear priorities. that is why i say that the budget must be a cover for both digitisation and the fight against climate change and security and agriculture, and i do not see all of that together in this draft budget at the moment. for that reason, i would like to say that until such a budget is presented, this parliament will say no. but in order to arrive at a better, clearer budget proposal, i.e. a proposal for the activities of the next seven years, please show your solidarity not only in words but also in euros.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. china is not playing by international rules. the single market is constantly being shut down. legal arbitrariness towards foreign investors is pervasive and the country plays a fairly dominant role in the increasingly rampant cybercrime. protection is good, protection is fine, but not enough to restore the old spirit of our business fabric, which is still weighed down by this crisis. i think that two measures or two interventions are absolutely necessary in this area from a structural point of view. one: strengthening of the internal market. without this internal market, it is impossible for firms to compete on the international market. and secondly, the completion of the internal capital market, which is necessary to generate the necessary funds for companies and also to ensure that those funds are used efficiently.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what a waste of time! it was not until 2020 and an unprecedented crisis that the commission and the council were moved by the aggressive commercial practices of certain powers and their multinationals in public procurement of foreign acquisitions in strategic sectors. it took until 2020 for some to discover that at the wto, for example, china or the united states are not really big fans of reciprocity. i saw that mrs vestager and mr breton had said that they had been naive. it's good to admit that, but now we have to stop being and we have to react. i have read your white paper carefully. first of all, i find it complicated: you have three levels of inquiry, countless forms, etc. i think we have to go to the essentials, we have to be clear, simple, pragmatic. we must stop, as you too often do, trying to restore the pure and perfect market at any cost. he never existed and he doesn't exist. let's get to the point: we must protect our businesses, our jobs, our know-how; we need a buy european act. this should not be the rule but the exception when it comes to acquisitions of foreign companies. we must defend european companies and workers.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the right to the truth and the right to the truthful facts is one of the fundamental rights of mankind. to make good decisions, we need to know the facts. on march 10, 2020, i asked that we not close the doors of the european parliament, that we stay here and find out the truth about the virus, about one of the countless mutations of the corona family of viruses and the disease covid-19. instead, we closed the doors of parliament and thereby gave the right to others to close the doors of their parliaments, further, trade, to suspend transport, to suspend the entire economy. what happened? what happened? there's been an unprecedented economic disaster. we're in the middle of a second wave, and we need to get the facts, and we need to get the most eminent epidemiologists and virologists into this house, and ask them questions so we know how we're going to respond in october.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, equality, multilingualism and common borders are one of the foundations of the european union. we cannot allow the declared pandemic of covid-19 to continue to maintain the bizarre situation where four non-eu countries are in the schengen area, while four countries: romania, bulgaria, malta and croatia, which have been together in the european union for 50 years, are outside the schengen area. i call on all of you to do everything we can to get all four countries into the schengen area this year and not to allow the closure of borders that we have seen recently, where some countries have put in place and exercised border controls because it is a blow to one of the pillars of the european union, which is the common borders, the common space and the unity among all the citizens of the european union.
mr president, freedom of movement for more than 400 million people is one of the foundations of modern europe. the global pandemic has understandably temporarily re-erected internal borders, but europe as we know it cannot exist without free movement, which is crucial for both economic recovery, tourism, but also for our european way of life. i am pleased that the european parliament has given its strong support to the further extension of schengen to all member states in a resolution. this is also very important for croatia, which is ready to become part of the largest free movement area in the world, as the european commission also determined last year. today, however, we have had the opportunity to hear attacks on my country because of the effective policy of protecting the longest land border of the european union. however, i believe that croatian citizens, as well as all other european citizens, will soon enjoy all the benefits of croatian membership of schengen, better transport connections, stronger economic cooperation, but also even better protection of external borders.
mr. chairman, we have recently witnessed the emergence of a new and most dangerous category, and that is the category of viral-pandemic profiteers. we are witnessing individuals, in a day, becoming billions of euros richer. twenty-six individuals in this world have as much wealth as the other 3.5 billion people. the virus-pandemic profiteering is exploited by countless paid articles and advertisements that provoke and spread a fear campaign. in this fear, and the closing of the state, those who profit are those who have enormous wealth and can buy big companies, airlines at a tenth of the price. we need to pay attention to it now. we need to see who's funding certain content in the media.
mr president, mr high representative, before covid, the human rights situation was in some respects, and in many parts of the world, in retreat. the pandemic has only exacerbated an already extremely tense situation in these countries and the most vulnerable populations are paying the price. we have seen youth movements, protests by young and old, before covid, but they were prevented or even suppressed during the lockdown. i will only mention, for example, the pro-democracy movements in hong kong, the hirak in algeria, and movements in lebanon and chile. these movements were and are the symptom of deep problems. we've seen it in our democracies, in the united states with the black lives matter movement, and we've seen it in europe as well. it is true that we in the european union have succeeded in developing a sound and ambitious human rights policy. and i welcome your initiative to set up a new sanctions mechanism to tackle those realities that are violating human rights. but our action requires more consistency in all our policies. european policies must respect the treaties and in particular article 21 of the treaty on european union. whether it is trade policy, migration policy, humanitarian policy, development policy or climate policy, all these policies must respect the principle of 'do not harm'. never should a european policy generate, encourage, a weakening of human rights in the world. for this we need more ambitious european regulation, we need more effective regulation and more inclusive regulation with civil society. we also need to fight impunity by supporting the international criminal court.
madam president, high representative, i want to take this opportunity to call on you to appoint a special representative to the syrian conflict. i acknowledge that there is a un envoy, but we are not the un. i acknowledge there’s no clear political path at the moment, but i believe that is the only way to a sustainable peace, because we cannot leave it to the russians, for the fate of the people of idlib. tomorrow, as you know, the cross-border resolution delivering humanitarian aid to two million people comes to an end. it was vetoed by both russia and china who have decided to cut off aid during a pandemic to two million people. i worked for a humanitarian organisation in syria for four years and i cannot express the shame i feel for the international community’s inability to protect the people of idlib. for 10 years the un has been unable to protect against forcible disappearances, chemical attacks and targeting of civilian infrastructure, and now it cannot even deliver aid. so ahead of next year’s 10-year anniversary, i call upon you today to appoint a special representative that can begin the process of developing relationships for a sustainable peace in syria.
madam president, in the annual human rights report, the range of activities and initiatives in the area of business and human rights is certainly to be commended. yet, rights which are not legally enforceable are rights in name only. after many years of hard work here in the european parliament and in civil society, finally, we will see that a growing number of member states and the commission are increasingly accepting that mandatory legislation is needed for business and human rights. at the end of april, there was a milestone event when the commissioner for justice, didier reynders, committed to a legislative initiative on mandatory human rights and environmental due diligence obligations for companies operating in the eu area. the german council presidency now has committed itself to an eu action plan on business and human rights. this is indeed long overdue because the eu has been very diligent about its member states adopting action plans, but as we say, at least in finnish, the shoemaker’s children sometimes don’t have shoes. the eu still lacks this action plan and we only can welcome it. we can also see that now would be a very timely moment for the eu to start to make a meaningful contribution in the international negotiations among the un frame for business and human rights because we have started to act at home, so please ask for the mandate from the member states to start these negotiations.
madam president, the eu is committed to the defence of human rights around the world. however, in order to be effective, the eu must have a moral authority that it doesn’t have. and it doesn’t have this because europe tolerates, for example, arbitrary detentions of social and political leaders committed by member states such as spain. this is why its efforts are not credible to third countries. you mentioned turkey. when one year ago the turkish regime decided to remove kurdish mayors from office – mayors democratically elected – its interior minister justified this with the precedent of the removal by spain of basque and catalan elected pro—independence politicians who were removed without any trial. moreover, i have been unable to find in its report any explicit reference to the persecution of the kurdish people, contrary to what happens in other reports on human rights, like the one from human rights watch. recover europe’s moral authority, mr borrell. dissidents from all around the world will be grateful.
mr president, mr high representative, respect for human rights is a hallmark of the european union and its member states. our foreign policy cannot logically ignore this dimension. i therefore encourage the european external action service to continue its work and its reports to promote respect for human rights in the world. i would also like to remind you that, in general, countries which respect human rights and the rule of law are also those which support an international order based on international law and peace, which is what we europeans want. the foreign affairs council in december last year also agreed to start work on establishing a comprehensive sanctions regime against human rights violations, a subject which is also mentioned in the german presidency's document on priorities, which began a few days ago. i'd like to know more about your objectives, the status of these works... i certainly think it is essential to improve the mechanisms for enforcing sanctions. we cannot repeat what happened in madrid last january.
madam president, i very much welcome this discussion, which once more shows that our union is based on values. i very much agree with what has already been said by the majority of colleagues, but let me make another point. the eu spoke on minority issues several times in 2019. during the human rights council and the un general assembly, the eu spoke with the special rapporteur on minority issues. at the forum on minority issues, the eu took the floor on the topic of education, language and the human rights of minorities. there was a european regional forum on minority issues organised in this house. at all these meetings, it says in the annual report, the eu highlighted its policies on inclusive education, celebration of linguistic diversity and the rights of minorities. but do we lead by the example we are trying to set? the special rapporteur has stressed that statelessness is a minority issue; it is one of his priorities. but have we discussed statelessness in the eu – like the hundreds of thousands of stateless persons in the baltic states? the un also considered it a right of minorities to learn in their mother tongue. as minority schools are being closed across europe, was this issue brought up? what i want to say is that our participation in various minority platforms is based on telling others what they’re doing wrong. our message would be much more convincing if we were able to set a proper example ourselves.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in catalonia, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. furthermore, we have a violation of basic human rights in the quarantine. certain states do this through their governments, while other states like the republic of croatia have delegated all authority to headquarters that have absolutely no legal basis to restrict people's right to work, right to health care, right to freedom of movement.
in writing. the linking of the rule of law principles to the allocation of eu budgetary resources runs counter to the original rule of law intentions of the treaties. this set of requirements was originally defined to improve the democratic and efficient functioning of the eu institutions, as defined in the treaty, and thus to enable them to perform their tasks better within a single institutional framework. instead, eu actors are taking account of the rule of law in individual member states by making their investigations based on purely political considerations, while the rule of law in the functioning of the eu institutions, the original addressees of the system of requirements, is not examined at all. the eu wants to be involved in the member states' own democratic and sovereign decision-making, following the rule of law. article 4 teu provides that any powers not conferred on the union by the treaties are to remain with the member states and that the union is to respect the national identities of the member states as an integral part of their fundamental political and constitutional arrangements. the union may act only within the limits of the competences conferred upon it by the member states in the treaties in order to attain the objectives set out in the treaties (article 5). the current rule of law policy is undermining the delicate compromise between member states on the transfer of sovereignty by forcing the eu to have a say in any member state's political decisions, while failing to fulfil its original role of holding the eu institutions to account in the area of the rule of law.
we now move on to the third round of voting. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. before i begin i would like to give the floor to mr tardino, who has asked to be heard under rule 159 (4) on his report on the conclusion of a negotiated eu-new zealand agreement on the exchange of personal data for the purpose of combating serious crime and terrorism.
the voting will be open from 6.30 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. the vote will be taken as in the previous round. i therefore declare the third round of voting open. you have until 19.45 to vote. the results of the third round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m. the sitting will be adjourned at 7.45 p.m. at the end of the third round of voting and will resume at 9.00 a.m. tomorrow.
member of the commission. – madam president, today we are remembering one of the darkest days of modern european history, and one of the most tragic crimes committed in europe since the second world war. in july 1995, over 8 372 muslim men and boys were deliberately and systematically killed by the bosnian serb forces in the un safe area of srebrenica, a town that they thought to be safe in the war that was ravaging bosnia and herzegovina. their bodies were thrown in mass graves, facing the ground, with their hands tied. as the last victims of srebrenica are buried in dignity, our hearts and thoughts are once again with them and with the survivors, the families and friends. we remember and honour the victims, and we extend our sympathy to all those who are grieving. may they find healing for their enduring pain. europe has not forgotten what happened in srebrenica or our own responsibility for not being able to prevent and stop the genocide. in srebrenica, europe failed, and we are faced with our shame. indeed, the srebrenica genocide remains an open wound at the heart of europe. it continues to haunt us. it continues to remind us of our shared responsibility to prevent genocide from ever happening again. it is therefore our duty to remember srebrenica forever. it is also our duty to ensure accountability. justice must be served, and all those responsible for the massacre must face the consequences of their actions. twenty-five years on, it is more urgent than ever to end impunity for the perpetrators of war crimes. the massacre in srebrenica was recognised as an act of genocide by two different international courts: the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in 2004, and the international court of justice in 2006. these established facts about what happened in srebrenica need to be acknowledged. any attempt at denial and revisionism are unacceptable. political leaders have a great responsibility in that regard. they need to choose the truth, justice and cooperation over fear and hate to overcome the tragic legacies of the past and build a brighter and prosperous future for the next generations. the leaders of the region must take full ownership and lead by example. there is no place in the eu for inflammatory rhetoric, let alone for the glorification of war criminals from any side. political leaders must be dedicated to bring their citizens, especially young people, together around a common vision of the future, built on trust, mutual understanding and respect for one another. civil society’s contribution to such a future is fundamental. it plays a vital role in nurturing a democratic culture of remembrance in the western balkans and throughout europe, especially for the benefit of the young generation. it is up to all of us in europe to learn the lessons of srebrenica. the values so brutally violated 25 years ago – the respect for human life and the respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality – are now at the core of our engagement with bosnia and herzegovina and its citizens. the commission continues to uphold these values in its relations with all of the western balkan countries. implementing the rulings and decisions of international tribunals and promoting an environment conducive to reconciliation in order to overcome the legacies of the war are key elements for all countries in the region to progress towards eu accession. this is essentially actively promoting reconciliation at all levels to secure, for the long term, the daily life of each citizen. it also entails providing redress to victims of war crime, rape and torture, supporting the return of refugees and displaced persons, and allowing the families of missing persons to achieve closure to their grief. the european union will continue to support bosnia and herzegovina to advance on its european path, establishing a society where pluralism, justice and human dignity prevail. through the accession process, the eu will continue to accompany the western balkans towards reconciliation and regional cooperation to build a peaceful and prosperous future for all the people of the region. acknowledging our past will help us to move forward. indeed, without reconciliation there will be no long-term peace, stability and prosperity in the western balkans. this is why i call on the western balkans to work in this direction, to heal the wounds of the past and deliver a common europe. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president. never again! never again! never again! i would like to dedicate this cry, this shout, this desperate message to all bosnian citizens – with no exception of ethnicity, religion or belief – and to all european citizens that in the past have experienced the horror and the hell of genocide. to put it better: to all humanity. the sacrifice of srebrenica is not only the tragedy of bosnia and herzegovina; it is the denial of humanity. whenever and wherever there is a genocide, a massacre, a massive and systematic killing of innocent people, there is the denial of humanity, the refusal of human dignity – there is srebrenica. all genocides, but especially the one of srebrenica, demand truth and justice, which are the essence of human respect. truth is not compatible with denial. justice is not reconcilable with impunity. on behalf of the european citizens, who we represent, i want to show our deepest sorrow and our most profound shame to all the victims of the srebrenica genocide, to all the survivors and families, to all bosnians – i dare say, to all humanity. there were those directly responsible for this massacre, but the failure of the international community and of the european union is unforgivable. survivors and families, you are the witnesses and the victims of the darkest instincts of human beings. without you, and without your thirst for justice, there can be no reconciliation. but you are also the hope of a peaceful and prosperous future for bosnia and herzegovina, for all bosnian citizens.
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, it is with deep sorrow and special regard for the victims that we speak today of the greatest tragedy on the european continent since the second world war - the srebrenica genocide. a full 25 years have passed, but the memories of those terrible scenes are still vivid in our minds. five years ago, the european parliament passed a special resolution on the genocide in srebrenica. there's no comfort for those who have lost loved ones, not even after all these years. but just as it is important to identify the remains of crime victims, it is equally important for their families to clearly identify the crime and the criminals. courts in the hague, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and croatia sentenced 47 defendants to more than 700 years in prison for their involvement in the srebrenica genocide. yes, the crime in srebrenica is genocide and that's how it should be called. we have the judgments of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and the international court of justice. but as time goes on, it will only strengthen our commitment to protect the victims and their families from the programmed oblivion of political engineering. and there have been and will be more such attempts, from the awarding of nobel prizes to genocide deniers to disinformation campaigns sponsored by various authoritarian regimes. we can't let crime triumph afterwards. we owe it to the victims of srebrenica, but also to the victims of ovčara and other mass deaths in areas where the greater serbian project left its criminal trail. only by defending the truth about the past can we open a better future for generations to come. the wealth of bosnia and herzegovina is its multi-ethnic society. unfortunately, political structures created in wartime often slow down the true progress of that country. its specificities, its different nationalities, cultures and religions deserve a lot of respect, and their equality is the best guarantee for a european future in bosnia and herzegovina. we owe the clear prospect of bosnia and herzegovina's membership in the european union to the victims of srebrenica, but also to the young people who, i believe, will live in peace and prosperity united in diversity as citizens of the european union.
on behalf of the renew club. dear chairman, dear commissioner, 25 years have passed since the worst war crime on european soil since the end of world war ii, the srebrenica genocide. no one, but no one, has the right to take and deny the genocide in srebrenica and relativize history. and that is why today i sincerely regret that there was no political will and courage to re-enact the srebrenica resolution on the eve of the 25th anniversary of this great tragedy. this failure to prosecute war crimes is a great civic defeat for this european parliament and the least we owe to the victims and their families is a guarantee that we will do absolutely everything in our power to ensure that such heinous crimes are never repeated. we all have a duty to insist on justice and to reject any politics that divides, that condemns, that excludes. with human lives, pain and suffering, there is no compromise and no speculation. in memory of the victims of the srebrenica crime, i wear this srebrenica flower today, a symbol of loss, a reminder of all the evils of extremist nationalism and the dangers of ethnic hatred, a reminder of the darkest part of european history, and i want this srebrenica flower to be a symbol of true faith in a better present, in a healthier future in which no one will lose their life because of their differences, because of belonging to another religion or nation. that is why i strongly condemn the srebrenica genocide in july 1995 and i call on all of you to do the same.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of unprecedented health and economic crisis, after a dramatic spring, an unusual summer and an uncertain rest of the year, the political agreement of the european council is a positive message. a message and responsibility and togetherness that europe needs today. some countries, sectors of the economy and generations are more affected than others, and it was therefore crucial to avoid widening social and economic disparities. for my country, croatia, but also for much of europe, concrete solidarity represents a great opportunity for faster economic recovery and empowerment. with the digital and green transformation, reducing disparities is a prerequisite for the europe of the next generation. at the same time, it's clear that this is just the beginning. the new generation of europe is only possible through even stronger investment in proven successful european programmes, research, education, digital europe and everything that is future-oriented. the european parliament, as the only elected european body, can negotiate this good proposal with a strong european perspective and make it even better. together we must show that europe is ready for historic steps when they are needed most, for all generations and for all member states.
mr president, massive investments in the digital and green transformation through the historic recovery plan should be a crucial growth engine and hope for next generation europe. in this unprecedented crisis this will not be possible without a credible repayment plan. this is why the reform of the system of own resources is really a pre-condition for the success of the whole package, of the whole concept. a strong message of european solidarity towards those who are most hit by the crisis needs to be followed now by a message of responsibility towards all europeans, but especially towards the youth. we need a swift reaction. a swift ratification so the entrepreneurs, workers, farmers, but also other recipients, can benefit from the assistance provided as soon as possible. at the same time we cannot sacrifice our long-term priorities and investments. three decades since the last introduction of a new own resource, a levy on plastics is an important first step but it is certainly not enough for the sustainability of the repayment. we need a clear and fair repayment plan, because otherwise cuts to the most important and most successful eu programmes will jeopardise the future of europe’s new generation, and that is certainly not the case.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, they hear without understanding and are like deaf people. the proverb applies to them: present, they are absent. that quote from heraclitus, mrs von der leyen, seems to be made for you. you have just spoken of the state of the union, but the state of the european union today is deplorable and its impotence is becoming more evident every day. the european union, we must be aware, is already causing sarcasm on the international stage. it is not only causing distrust among our fellow citizens, but today, exasperation. the legitimate exasperation of the people in the face of the unpreparedness and lack of coordination on the health crisis, and also in the face of this complacency of the european institutions, always as sure of themselves. your european recovery plan is a short-term response, short-lived, largely ineffective and, above all, very expensive. the question is not how much we will get, but how much we will pay and who will pay. again and again, it is the same people who will pay, the net contributors, who will obviously have to pay far more than they receive. you mentioned own resources as the miracle solution, but you did not mention it in your long speech a few moments ago. you have contracted, on behalf of our nations, an exorbitant debt of 750 billion euros. but who can believe for a second that a gafam tax, a carbon tax or a plastic tax would be likely to achieve the repayment of this debt? you do not provide the timetable, the method or any guarantee for the refund. you mention the economic changes that would be necessary, you add burdens, standards, environmental constraints, in particular, for our companies, for our industries, for our farmers. they will therefore be less competitive in the face of fierce global competition, especially if you think of europe as a market that is totally open to all winds. at the very least, we should have implemented market protection measures in return. this is what you refuse to do: even during the health crisis, you continued negotiations towards free trade agreements. we should free up, that is to say facilitate production, creativity, wealth and inventiveness, and protect, including through quotas, customs duties and quotas. you are doing the exact opposite, you are forcing us inside and you are deregulating our borders. the green deal for europe and next generation eu are just words. they will not ensure europe's future, independence and economic prosperity; they will only further weaken europe on the world stage. where is the european union now in the face of the migration challenge? we look forward to your immigration pact next week. here again, the evidence is overwhelming: asylum has become a full-fledged channel of illegal immigration. in the last six years, there have been 5.3 million asylum seekers, the vast majority of whom do not meet the criteria for asylum. that's the same as the population of denmark. they're not fleeing war, they're coming for economic reasons and they know that by your laxity, they can stay. laxity causes tragedy and further increases human trafficking. every humanitarian tragedy has become a pretext for more and more laxity. because you announce today the arrival of many migrants from moria, there will be 100 moria tomorrow. it is the firmness and control of the upstream borders and the systematic expulsion downstream that will protect our nations and above all that will avoid tragedies and deaths in the mediterranean. and where is the european union in relation to china? the pandemic has exposed our dependence, our vulnerability to the asian giant. the summit last monday gave birth to a mouse. mrs merkel has theorised the policy of the millimetre, but meanwhile china is advancing by several kilometres. it is conquering our markets and buying our ports and airports. the european union, on the other hand, gets nothing: nothing on the investment agreement, nothing on human rights, nothing on the environment. you 're making a moral; china, on the other hand, is making policy and giving you some crumbs with the agreement on geographical indications. where is the eu in relation to turkey? turkey illegally occupies cyprus, drills illegally, increases military manoeuvres in the eastern mediterranean, converts the hagia sophia into a mosque and organises migrant submersion. meanwhile, we have paid 50 billion euros over 20 years, through the european investment bank, through the pre-accession funds, through the immigration control funds, not to mention the customs union, which allows turkey to do its foreign trade largely to the european market. in short, erdoğan insults us, despises us and overwhelms us, and you continue to pay. so, mrs von der leyen, you said earlier that you reject europe first, but then you will have europe dead. because the truth is that our competitors and our adversaries on the world stage are going to take advantage of this lack of ambition, this lack of will, this inability to shine. you give yourself a clear conscience with draconian environmental standards, but you're killing our businesses. you are giving yourself a good conscience by wanting to welcome more and more migrants, but you are threatening the cohesion of our nations and the security of our peoples. you are giving yourself a good conscience by giving lessons in the rule of law to member states which have the courage to defend a civilization. you give yourself a good conscience by lecturing china and turkey on human rights, and you let them despise and ruin us. these blows to the chin only lead to collective weakening, to european impotence. george bernanos said that the future is something that can be overcome, but it lacks the will, unfortunately for europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the state of this union today is defined by our failure at the external borders, by the fact that we let children sleep on the streets, that we refuse to give water to those in need, that we send police against those fleeing from war and violence and that we knowingly let people down and drown at sea. this is a very shameful state that we’re in. it was exactly the historic experience of people suffering from war, destruction and displacement that motivated europeans in the first place to build the eu. what a sad moment in our common history that we stand idle in the face of so much suffering on our doorstep. this shameful situation is our collective responsibility as europeans. greece has failed for many years to produce conditions in refugee camps that would at least be acceptable. countries like the netherlands and austria told greece not to allow refugees on the mainland and actively wanted to see terrible conditions in order that it might deter people fleeing from war and terror, and countries like hungary refused to accept anyone in need. but it is also true that the eu itself has turned a blind eye, has not insisted and has given up hope. i urge you, commission president, to take up the fight with the member states, to make it a top priority to help people in need, and not to give in to this disastrous state we’re in. let us demonstrate that we are courageous and that we’re wholeheartedly european, and we have demonstrated that we can be courageous and lead the way forward towards progress. together, the european union will mobilise the means and funds to counter the worst of the economic effects of the pandemic, proof that we can be a strong union indeed. the agreement of july has a lot of shortcomings, but the signal of sticking together and finding a solution was very important. now is the time to bring the recovery fund, as well as the long—term budget, into reality. right now we set the standards for how we will spend the money and what we will spend it on. eu funds have to foster eu values and uphold the fundamentals of eu treaties. there can be no discount on the rule of law, not for hungary, not for poland, not for any other country. i want to thank you for your strong words on the rights of lgbti people and i would like to ask you to follow up on those strong words with a measure that the commission has in its hands, namely an infringement procedure, because zones free of the essence of humanity cannot be accepted. (applause) public money should also not enhance the climate crisis. this sounds obvious, but unfortunately it is still the case that the eu budget subsidises fossil fuels. the common agricultural policy, as well as the trade policy, finally need to align with the green deal and the biodiversity strategy. for the next seven years, we need a european climate budget. it is good to see, commission president, that you have set out a new and higher emission reduction target of at least 55%. we welcome that and i’m sure there has been a lot of pressure to try to prevent you from doing so. these new targets are an important step forward, but any greenwashing with creative calculations would render them null and void. even then, we know from a scientific point of view that at least -55% would not be enough. but luckily we have in this house in our committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) a good climate law that has been prepared. i hope this will come to a conclusion soon as time is of the essence. the climate cannot be negotiated with so we’d better move fast. let me finish by saluting the incredible courage that we see by the people in belarus, who have demonstrated on the streets of the country in these weeks, especially the women. we see you, we see your wish for freedom, for democracy and to define your own future, and your courage is inspirational. from the freedom fighters in belarus to the environmental activists in the amazon, to the democracy protesters in bulgaria, they are all looking at the european union to uphold fundamental rights, to defend pluralism and to enforce the highest climate and environmental standards both in europe and beyond. these are high standards to live by and it is up to all of us to make sure that we fulfil them. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the last decade has been rather turbulent for the european union and the problems will of course continue. the eu today is in a worse shape than it was ten years ago. i therefore find it rather puzzling that every year over the last decade we have heard from every commission president that a radiant future is awaiting us and that the days of eu glory are just around the corner, provided of course that the european commission and the european institutions get more competences. you must be aware, madam president, that fewer and fewer people across europe take this message seriously. the european health agency, the european cloud, the european bauhaus – i wonder if the new european architecture will resemble this building. what a frightening perspective. madam president, the gist of your argument today was that the pandemic crisis is a good opportunity to launch ambitious radical programmes, including the green deal. i’m sorry to say it, but this is a bad argument. this is bad logic and bad logic generates bad policy. what you are proposing is a great leap forward in a situation in which the future is more precarious than ever. the green deal with 55% – why not 60? – is a costly extravaganza, animated solely by a spirit of environmentalist crusade, not by a sober social and economic calculation. now a few words on the so-called rule of law provisions. i say ‘so-called’ because it has nothing to do with rule or with law. the whole idea, as you remember, was an iniquitous trick of the previous commission, in complete disregard of the treaties, with the intention of bullying the governments that dissented from the mainstream. it is not what those governments do, because they don’t do anything objectionable, but what they are. the previous commission let a malignant genie out of the bottle, a genie of political foul play, and they are not interested in putting it back. this so—called conditionality is another step towards complete lawlessness, the prospect of which makes the majority of my colleagues almost ecstatic. madam president, do not be deluded by the sanctimonious rhetoric you hear in this chamber. as usual, behind sanctimoniousness, there is ugly politics and there is hypocrisy. what this rule of politics amounts to is brutal majoritarianism. the mainstream majority wants to crush every form of dissent. do not open the door for more instruments of the tyranny of the majority, as you promised you would do. that was the scariest part of your speech. this is already getting uglier and uglier, wider and more mendacious. the european institutions want to switch off the democratically constituted institutions of the nation states. they instigate internal conflicts by endorsing some parties rather than other parties. this is not your business. you shouldn’t do it. this is political arrogance at its worst. let me conclude. if we continue – if you and your commission continue – on the current course, the course espoused by many of my fellow group leaders here this morning, europe will be wrecked. i repeat, europe will be wrecked, caught in an ideological pincer movement, orchestrated by green and federalist extremists. mr juncker will forever be remembered as the commission president who lost britain. you, ms von der leyen, must make sure that you are not the president who lost the peoples of europe. i urge you to work with the member states, not with the ideologically-driven campaigns masquerading as political groups in this house. save the european union from ideology and return it to reality. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at one of the most difficult times for the economy, health and employment, the european union has responded with a recovery plan which provides for substantial funds to combat unemployment and for the environmental and technological transition. president von der leyen, time is now the enemy of this recovery. we must move quickly to ensure that this recovery is an opportunity for all and not just for the few. as the 5 star movement, we expect the new european green deal to only invest in renewable energy and not to give favors to the fossil fuel lobby. the motion for a resolution tabled by mr glinne and mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne and mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne and mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on own resources so, digital tax, carbon tax, financial transactions do not give up: we cannot increase the contribution of the member countries, already suffering from the pandemic, and ask for more sacrifices from the citizens. finally, on the management of migration flows, a mechanism is needed which is automatic and mandatory and which provides for a fair distribution of responsibilities between all member states. on jobs, the environment, health, economic recovery, the citizens want the facts and we are here for them.
president of the commission. – mr president, listening to the extreme right shows again that there is a fundamental difference when looking at the human being and the individual. we are convinced that each human being has a solemn dignity that can never be touched, independent of where this individual comes from. obviously, the extreme right has a different view, that there are different types of human beings – ‘them and us’, and ‘they’ have to be confronted with hate. but hate has never given any good advice. so we will always insist on the fact that …(in response to dissent from the floor) … this makes him angry because we got him on the point where he sees that we have a different soul where that is concerned. (loud applause) and that is democracy. that is democracy. he has to bear it. he cannot bear the contradiction that they are preaching hate and we want solutions. we want a constructive approach towards migration because it will always be with us. (applause) therefore this is the right moment for a fresh start on migration. just two numbers: every year, about two million people come to europe – two million – and 140 000 refugees. so we should be able to manage that. two million people are coming to europe. there’s a good reason why. it’s because europe is a wonderful continent that offers a lot of opportunities. this is the normality, and on top of that 140 000 refugees last year. we should be able, we have to be able, to manage that. therefore, we will put forward the legislation next week. there will be time to discuss it. the rule of law. with the new report we will put forward before the end of the month, the commission is taking the most systematic and the most comprehensive approach to the rule of law in our history. because never before have we looked in such detail at these issues across every country. the report is not just on the judiciary, which is important, but also on anti—corruption, the media landscape, and institutional checks and balances. the report that will be published before the end of this month will show many challenges and then we will have a broad debate here, to really confront that. if it’s necessary and we do need new instruments, new tools, well let’s address it. this is what we’re here for. that’s why we do politics here. so that is a chance to move forward on that subject. sie haben die nextgenerationeu erwähnt und das thema der arbeitsplätze und dass jeder euro nur einmal ausgegeben werden kann – und das ist richtig. und zu recht die forderung, im digitalen mehr voranzuschreiten. deshalb werden wir von nextgenerationeu zwanzig prozent in das digitale investieren – und das ist richtig. wir haben jetzt einen plan, wir haben klare ziele bis 2030, wir haben klare aufgaben in der infrastruktur – bei den daten, bei der technologie, wir haben gesetze, die wir auf den weg bringen wollen. das ist die zeit, wo wir das digitale, die digitale dekade für europa ausrufen müssen und auf den weg bringen müssen! und es kam zu recht der gedanke, dass wir bei den gewaltigen investitionen, die wir mit nextgenerationeu haben, unserer verantwortung gerecht werden müssen, dass wir diese investitionen präzise, zukunftsorientiert und effizient tätigen. und meine damen und herren, ich habe auch ihnen zugehört. ich teile nicht den düsteren blick auf die welt, den sie haben, sondern ich gehöre eher zu den menschen, die mit der hoffnung arbeiten und die mit optimismus an aufgaben herangehen. meine damen und herren, natürlich sind dieses schwierige zeiten. aber was war in allen schwierigen zeiten meistens das problem, das uns gehindert hat, voranzuschreiten? erstens die trägheit, aus der derzeitigen situation herauszukommen, und zweitens, die fehlenden mittel. das ist jetzt anders! in diesen corona-zeiten, so wie wir sie jetzt haben, wollen wir nicht bleiben! keiner will in diesem stadium verharren. das heißt, die eigene trägheit ist aufgehoben, und wir alle wissen, wir müssen uns hinbewegen auf eine welt nach corona. und jetzt ist die frage: wie stellen wir uns die welt nach corona vor? ich habe meine vorstellung der welt nach corona dargelegt, und ich glaube, viele in diesem hohen haus teilen sie. und ich glaube, wir haben die verantwortung – jetzt mit der tiefen überzeugung, dass menschen wissen, dass wir uns nach vorne bewegen müssen –, europäische führung zu zeigen, europäische visionen zu entwickeln, die die welt von morgen auch zeigen, und wir haben die investitionen. und diese investitionen vertrauenswürdig, effizient, zukunftsgerichtet zu investieren, einzusetzen – das wird unsere gemeinsame aufgabe sein. viele unterschiedliche meinungen sind hier sichtbar geworden – das ist das schöne an der demokratie. lasst uns miteinander darüber streiten! aber ich habe auch sehr viel breite mehrheit für eine gemeinsame überzeugung gespürt, diese welt nach vorne zu bringen in eine grünere welt, eine sauberere welt, eine gesündere welt mit einer kraftvollen wirtschaft, die in der lage ist, den weg in die zukunft mit modernen technologien zu führen, wie wir sie brauchen, damit dieser planet auch überleben kann. wir wollen die zukunft gemeinsam gestalten. wir sehen nicht den untergang, sondern wir sehen eher den fortschritt, die möglichkeiten, die sich uns eröffnen – und lasst uns daran gemeinsam arbeiten!
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in a world in crisis, where nationalism and populism are showing their ugly face, where democracy is under pressure and authoritarianism is growing, the issue is nothing more and nothing less than europe's self-assertion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. madam president, you certainly did not expect the council to agree with every one of your proposals. but it is important that we show a clear signal of cohesion and solidarity in these difficult times of crisis. and that, of course, includes arguing, and we're ready for that. each institution - the commission, parliament, council - has its responsibilities, but in the end it must be clear that we are moving in the right direction, that we are able to agree on the essential principles. madam president, i can assure you that we will give you all our support in the rapid completion of the largest financial package in the history of united europe. we are also in favour of the creation of a european union of the people, and we are in favour of the creation of a european union of the people. help must reach where it is needed most, and it must be delivered immediately. but, madam president, and you have our support, it is not just about investing in old-fashioned things. it is about further development, it is about the reconstruction of europe, it is about a social and ecological reconstruction of europe. and that's why we're here to support you in strengthening digitization and climate action. climate change in particular shows that there are still great fears and worries in our societies. that's why we need a socially just climate change. and that is why we are here to support you, madam president. the social cohesion of a united europe must be strengthened. the german presidency will support you in making decisive progress on the eu-wide framework for a poverty-free minimum wage. because the line that nationalists and populists keep trying to tell us is that climate change is a job killer is not true. climate action is a way of securing future-oriented jobs. but it has to be a fair climate change, and we support you in that, too. the european union, as you have said, madam president, is not primarily a single market. we are first and foremost a community of values and a community of law. and this community of law and values applies to all. and here we are helping you build a stronger community of law and values. we support the introduction of the rule of law conditionality. we will support you in building a rule of law mechanism on the basis of the report we are already looking forward to and eagerly awaiting at the end of september. you have our support, madam president, in speaking with one voice in this crisis-ridden world. you've addressed the big global players -- russia, china, others. the most effective remedy against the poison of division is cohesion. the fact that we are always able to achieve a synthesis between different positions is difficult in the council, it is difficult in all the institutions, but we are ready to do so. and, madam president, you have our support in building a migration and asylum policy which is committed to shared responsibility, solidarity and humanity, because migration and flight are not a national test but a global and european test. europe is the place where we can all be different without fear. it doesn't matter what religion you have, where you come from, who you believe in. the only thing that counts here is that you are committed to the values that europe stands for. and that is the only way europe, our europe, will survive, and we will support you in that endeavour to the best of our ability.
mr president, madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are in crisis mode. covid-19 is not dead, it's still affecting our lives, our economy. many of our citizens are uncertain, our economy is under enormous pressure. i think in times of crisis like these, it's important -- you mentioned it -- to build trust and, above all, to set the right priorities. the first priority for me is the health of our citizens, and i must compliment the european commission on that: to mobilise 16 billion euros for the development of the vaccine, madam president, i think that is great, as do your efforts to ensure that the vaccine, once developed, is also made available to our citizens in europe. the second priority, in my view, must be our economy. we must guide our companies through the crisis, our jobs depend on our companies, our social systems depend on our companies, our prosperity depends on our companies. the figures i have from my home region, which are reflected throughout europe, are alarming in my eyes. places are being mined without end. in my region man employs 10,000 people, schaeffler, continental, ... airbus is shutting down, airports are largely paralyzed, trade shows are empty, creatives are out of work. we're really in the middle of it, and everything is running on a very low budget, and i'm finding that it's just the tip of the iceberg. i believe that europe has made a powerful contribution with the reconstruction plan, but it is important to me now that we refrain from further regulation and from further burdens, especially for our companies, and above all for our mediumsized family businesses. i agree with the ambitious climate protection objectives, but the implementation of these will depend on the details, and i would simply encourage you, madam president, and the whole commission, to use the mechanisms for implementing the green deal, the climate protection programme, which are the key to our success in europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. covid-19 is a crisis, and in this situation, i think we need to adapt our policies to this big crisis mode.
in this time of crisis due to this pandemic, our role is to rebuild our economies to be resilient and future-proof. it is therefore positive that i heard you mention the priority to the digital and environmental agenda this morning. it is more urgent today than ever before. if we really want to achieve our carbon neutrality targets by 2050, we have to start acting today. i am pleased that the european commission has presented its plan to reduce pollution by at least 55% by 2030. we know that science requires much more of us. therefore this political group is committed to seeing that no loopholes are introduced to reduce and weaken that target. the second point concerns the health sector. we must make sure that we have more competences in the field of health. so we will see to it that there is no cutbacks on such a vital and important programme. and the last point: immigration. i expect to see a much stronger pact on immigration in the near future. we need innovative solutions. yesterday's solutions are not working today, nor will they work tomorrow. and if we really want solidarity to go from words on paper to deeds, we must see that we really have the measures and the tools to tackle this challenge.
mr president, we have been through difficult times this year and still difficult times lie ahead of us. so many challenges overlapping. you mentioned them. that’s why it is so important that this time the eu, contrary to the 2008 crisis, stands by its citizens, that the eu shows it is useful for fighting against a pandemic, for helping the economies recover, for taking care of people and businesses most affected by the crisis and useful for transforming these economies into greener and fairer ones. but the eu also has to deliver when conflicts on democracy and self-determination arise inside the union. madame president, it’s not me who should be addressing you right now. it should be oriol junqueras, elected mep and one of the catalan political prisoners, shamefully behind bars for now almost three years. yes, here europe must deliver too, because this injustice is a stain not only for spain but for the whole of europe. so help them and the exiles be back home and demand that the spanish government, once and for all, be brave and negotiate a solution for catalonia based on respect and real democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have now heard the speech, the line taken by the president of the commission. for me, it was strikingly similar to that of an extreme leftist representative, who clearly and unequivocally shows that it is our views that are the right ones. if you dare to dissent, you will be branded as hateful and extremist. and that's when i ask myself as a swedish citizen standing here today: why should we be part of paying for this? why should sweden borrow money to give away that money to other eu countries without getting anything in return? this is a modified truth, since we get the debts that we pass on to our children and grandchildren, which they have to pay for many years. we have a big problem in sweden with constant shootings and bombings, just like in other countries, germany for example. i think we all remember chancellor merkel's speech entitled 'we are creating that'. no, you didn't! you have problems at least as big as sweden's, and the longer you persist in building the united states of europe, the faster there will be more referendums on leaving the european union.
mr president, the greatest economic crisis of our time has been knocking on our doors. tens of millions of people are being threatened by poverty, hunger and civil unrest. it’s high time we do something. you have left over 100 million people, after the last crisis in 2008, in poverty. how many do you intend to leave in poverty after this crisis? i am hereby inviting you all to implement a universal basic income in all of europe. i am ready to do whatever it takes to prevent my fellow croatians and other nations of the european union from going bankrupt. if we fail at this, if we don’t make this step, then europeans will be on the breadline, stripped of everything. i am asking for no charity, i am asking to give people back what was taken from them by unjust crisis, by artificial crisis, and by bad policies. many lives have already been ruined. let us not ruin the lives of our children. let us take this historic responsibility.
mr president, in 2016, sinn féin meps warned this parliament about the threat brexit was to the good friday agreement. little did i realise that, four years later, i would be saying the same thing. we have a long experience with the british establishment. we know that they don’t care about ireland, north or south. we know that they renege on their commitments. they have continually reinterpreted, misinterpreted and ignored the good friday agreement to suit their own domestic political agenda. now you are learning what we have known all along. they cannot be trusted. the british legislation is not only a breach of the withdrawal agreement, it is a full frontal assault on all aspects of our good friday agreement. so, again, we look to you all in europe to help protect our agreement, our peace process and to help us escape from british misrule.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. it sounds to me like the world's greatest athlete lets others win every race. the european union has all the capabilities to be a world leader in all areas and we must strive for this and we must achieve it. you spoke of the rule of law, but it is terrible that it is the european commission that is violating and not respecting the regulation on the visa scheme. for seven years, therefore, no visa is introduced for citizens of the united states of america in the event of reciprocity because the united states of america has a visa regime for four members of the european union. this is unacceptable! we're acting like mice, and we should be acting like lions. and we have to follow our rules.
madam president, the moria fire is just the latest indicator, a symbol of the flaws in the european migration and asylum system, but we can no longer turn a blind eye. we cannot avoid tackling the difficult issue of migration and we must do so seriously, responsibly and comprehensively and without any improvised solutions. the precondition for all this is simply effective protection of the external borders. it is therefore encouraging that today, unlike five years ago, we have protection at both the greek and croatian external borders of the european union, but also that the european union clearly supports a policy to prevent illegal, uncontrolled and unwanted migration. the new migration and asylum system must be humane to those in need of support, decisive for those who do not have the right to asylum, to international protection, but also completely uncompromising towards traffickers and smugglers who profit from the suffering of others.
mr president, we cannot support this proposal because it means that the forest will be progressively financed, and this financing of the forest leads not only to a productivist logic but to a short-term productivist logic. this proposal should aim at a strategy to combat climate change, with forests being a key element in reducing carbon dioxide emissions. it should aim at preservation, conservation and biodiversity at a time when only 15% of forests are in a favourable conservation status in the european union. it should aim at afforestation and reforestation. it should be aimed at fire and pest resilience, and it doesn't do any of this. we therefore call for a vote on amendment no 2, which is the one that allows for a strategy for forests that really responds to the fight against climate change, and that is a strategy for our times and not a strategy of the past. i therefore appeal to all colleagues not to let this recommendation pass. what we need is, as the name suggests, a strategy for forests in the european union.
mr president, no forest strategy in europe can succeed unless the problem of illegal deforestation is tackled. i have spoken and done much against the so-called wooden mafia that exists in croatia, romania, and some other countries. it's about organized crime, the massive felling of the best trees for profit. but besides this organized crime, there are our fellow citizens, people who have no choice but to engage in illegal deforestation. it's about people who do it because they have no way to survive the winter, because they have no way to close the household budget. in europe, we have 100 million poor people. that's why we need to introduce a universal basic income for all of europe to eradicate poverty, to give these people a life of dignity that they don't have to go to illegal deforestation to survive. universal basic income will solve this pressure on forests, the devastation of the environment and nature.
madam president! in recent decades, there has been exponential population growth, and consequent consumption of energy, food, raw materials. that's why we have environmental problems today, because emissions are outpacing the capacity of our continent. europe has been a leader for decades in the drive to green our continent, and so climate legislation is part of that drive, which i hope will be followed by as many countries as possible, the rest outside the european union, those that produce 90% of the greenhouse gases. we can pass very ambitious legislation. today the commission is proposing to increase the reduction from 40% to 55%, and in parliament we have proposals 60, 65, 70. but, colleagues, we will not save the environment by passing tough and ambitious legislation, but in the economy, among the population, in the real world, among farmers. this is where we need to make decisions that will enable the development of new technologies that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we must prevent job cuts and job losses caused by too hasty action. we need to prevent energy poverty for those people who have the lowest incomes. the transition must be fair for all countries. and in the future, we're going to have to make some bold decisions, even when we're putting in place, i don't know, wind farms or even deciding to go nuclear. and for those of you who are most ambitious today, i hope that you will support such decisions, which will require courageous decisions, in real life.
madam chair, our planet is not well. he is sick. young people, and all responsible people, are afraid, aware that the future is uncertain. that's why we need to pass this remedial exam. we need to do it right, because today we are creating a climate-neutral europe, a leader in a healthier, better world, but on that path let's not get lost and entangled in commas, percentages and statistics. let's put the human at the center, because we have a lot of change and behavior ahead of us, in investment, but also in cost. and therefore, whatever it costs the budget of the european union and the member states, it must be paid for because we have no alternative. and the fight against climate change should and must go hand in hand with budgeting. for this reason, we hear all too often that every crisis is an opportunity for a new beginning. let's show it now by voting for this climate act.
madam chair, we in croatia have a big problem with money laundering. recently, the zagreb bank scandal and the laundering of large amounts of money was revealed, three members of the board resigned. the central bank, the croatian national bank, was supposed to protect it all, control it all, but in the old way, it covered it all up and maybe even participated in it. and what the croatian citizens and all of europe have got from these bank criminals, is actually nothing. while they are laundering billions, we in europe have 100 million poor citizens. many of them are children. we have millions and millions of poor children, in croatia alone we have more than 200,000 poor children. children in poverty are stressed, malnourished, stunted, have poor learning and a high chance of being poor themselves one day. we can do all this by taking the wealth of this continent from these unfortunate banks and giving it to those who really need it. let's give these people, let's give these kids a chance at life. this is not just an economic issue, this is a moral and civic issue of this world in the 21st century.
your honor, almost a year after the pandemic campaign was launched, we are still allowing the death toll from covid-19 to be determined in a completely unscientific and illegal manner. people who have died of heart attacks, strokes are declared dead from covid-19 only because they tested positive for the coronavirus 28 days before, even though they showed no signs of illness. if we applied that to colds, we'd have tens of millions of deaths. what did that lead to? it led to an extreme campaign of fear. we quarantined our oldest people. in croatia, as in the rest of europe, half the people died in nursing homes. on the other hand, hundreds of thousands of senior citizens were this summer on the croatian coast, croatian bathing sites, and almost no one got sick or died.
mr. chairman, as i've been researching the subject matter of this debate, i've been left baffled. up to 66% of covid-19 deaths in individual countries have so far been in long-term care facilities. and that's awful. then, what is even more frightening, and what has been seen through this debate, is the differences between individual member states in this respect. differences in standards, in the availability of service, in the ways that service is delivered. we have heard many times from colleagues here that the european union has no competence, no ability to act. that's partly true, but not all of it. there's a recovery fund that's funding, or will be funding, the recovery from the pandemic. there is a european social fund that can help finance the training of the workforce in social care institutions. we have the european regional development fund, which can finance health infrastructure. there are therefore financial instruments through which the european union can contribute to reducing these differences in the quality of long-term care. and finally, there is the european semester as a mechanism to check that countries are meeting the standards they have committed themselves to. so the european union can do a lot to level the playing field in long-term care in the european union and thereby show that the lives of all eu citizens are worth the same. and i'm very pleased that the european commission, and through vice-president schuice's portfolio, is showing that this is a priority, and i believe it will continue to be so, because at the end of the day, we're all going to get to that year, and we have to show that the lives of all citizens in the european union are equally important.
mr president, we have had a very high-quality debate today and we have heard many arguments on many aspects of digital market regulation. one of the most important, and this is something that has been mentioned many times, is the issue of hate speech and freedom of expression. i would just like to mention that in addition to the crime, which has been mentioned several times, which occurred in france, we were, unfortunately, last week witness to an attack on the building of the government of the republic of croatia in zagreb, where unfortunately, a 22-year-old man shot at the government building and seriously injured a policeman who was on guard, that is, in the security of the government building. unfortunately, it is clear that this 22-year-old was motivated by hate speech and fake news on the internet, and what is worse, unfortunately, after this act happened, we could see a series of outbursts glorifying his act, right on social media. this shows how dangerous the spread of hate on the internet is, it shows how dangerous the spread of misinformation is, and how much we have to fight against such phenomena. of course, that doesn't mean we need a "ministry of truth", it doesn't mean we're for censorship, it just means we have to strike the right balance between freedom of expression on the one hand, and hate speech, which is very dangerous and can lead to tragedies like this in the future. i am glad that the commission is working in this direction, i am glad that the measures announced are precisely aimed at achieving this balance, and i believe that we will succeed in achieving this balance and in protecting all those values which constitute and protect the european way of life.
mr president, less than a year ago frans timmermans presented his green deal here. but how green is europe really? when this european parliament is going to give 383 billion euros in subsidies this week for more poison, more mega-stalls and more pollution? many citizens do think about the climate by eating less meat, by putting solar panels on their roofs and by leaving their cars on the road a little more. yet brussels continues to give billions of dollars in aid to the livestock industry, which is a disaster for animals and a disaster for biodiversity, and which emits more greenhouse gases than all the cars in europe combined. in addition, europe also continues to subsidize the breeding of bulls for bullfights and meat promotion campaigns. and to top it off, the meat lobby has also managed to get us to vote on banning names like vegetarian burger and vegan schnitzel. we've got better things to do here! i would say: meat industry, you're meddling with your own sausage! i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, common agricultural production, or policy, is one of the foundations of the european union. the common agricultural policy and consumer protection must guarantee healthy food for europe's citizens. but they must also guarantee a number of jobs in agriculture. the current system of incentives does just the opposite: it is shutting down many family farms across europe and enabling individuals to earn enormous incomes and material benefits. in the republic of croatia, 80% of all funds go to just a few individuals. so where does that leave us? that they would be able to buy back most of the agricultural land of individual states with that amount of money, which takes us back a few centuries, and leads us to feudalism. furthermore, some regulations are poorly written, as is the regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products, which allows products to be labelled in the following way: country of production - croatia, and then we have a fishing area and you think it is a fishing area in the republic of croatia, but it is an area in africa and asia. we are encouraging fishing in africa and asia, not in croatia and the european union.
in writing. the current system of direct payments is far from a level playing field for all eu farmers. a large proportion of farmers receive very generous benefits ranging from 100 to as much as 209% of the eu average. at the same time, in some other countries, benefits are only 77% of the eu average. the direct payment scheme is not based on production costs and this shows that discrimination against certain farmers is carried out on a targeted basis. we have to stop this now. the next opportunity will not be until 2028. members of the greens, regardless of their country of origin, are prepared to work towards a fairer and more equal distribution of direct payments, while at the same time allowing farmers to survive and compete in the common market. are you ready to do that? liberals talk about protecting the market all the time. here's your chance. show that you do not approve of market distortions. socialists talk about the need to make sure that people are not discriminated against and that there is at least a minimum income. you can do that by voting for the amendment we have prepared. it would prevent the collapse of farms and help to restore social justice. conservatives are always talking about the need to strengthen communities - here's your chance, otherwise they won't stay in the regions. i urge you to be brave and make a change. the vote will soon show whether our words are the same as our deeds.
written. the importance of this act is evident, as is the impact of the cap on all member states, given that the value of the cap is about 1/3 of the eu budget (eur 365 billion over 7 years). while i welcome some of the provisions that have been identified in the cap, such as the intention to reduce pesticides by 50% by 2030, the need to increase agricultural land for organic farming to 25% and the preservation of biodiversity, the negative sides are much more, so as one of the main reasons for not supporting these acts, pointing out that the benefits will be mostly for corporations that will get the most money, while for small farmers, especially the pgi, which account for over 90%, the crumbs remain. they are still neglected in the context of support and the cap is only advocating them in principle, without strong and effective solutions. for example, the areas of the croatian karst pastures are neglected. although the text includes greater protection of animal welfare, it does not do enough to move away from industrial farming. the content of the cfp is unacceptable to me and considering that many good amendments did not receive support, i decided to vote against the cfp because in the end it brings much more harm than good for croatia and europe. supporting the opposition to the zpp is the fact that it was essentially a rotten compromise between three big establishment clubs.
the economic and social future and the present of the european union depend, above all, on our response to the covid-19 pandemic. this spring, we started using lockdown. the lockdown and its policies have led to the loss of millions of jobs in the european union. now, slowly, some states are re-introducing and implementing lockdown policies. we're going to lose millions more jobs. if we continue this way until spring, we could be talking about tens of millions of jobs lost. it took decades to create those jobs. the states will be in tremendous debt. now in the republic of croatia, the prime minister said yesterday that due to the consequences of the lockdown and the financing of entrepreneurs, we are unable to pay one billion euros of debt to drug companies, which means that we are unable to pay for medicines. one billion euros in croatia means one sixth of the total state budget. we need to re-examine, in this house, the lockdown policy, whether there is another way to fight the covid-19 pandemic.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the social and economic consequences are once again being felt particularly strongly by young people, as they were recently hit particularly hard by the financial crisis. mass unemployment meant that for millions, especially young people not from western or northern europe, marginalization, low income, later self-employment and more difficulty in starting a family. crises affect all generations, but for young people in their formative years, their effects are deeper and last longer. this fall and winter, the priority must be to protect the lives and health of vulnerable groups. every life is important. every life is priceless. full intergenerational solidarity today means above all protecting the most vulnerable groups. medically, it's the elderly these days. economic and social, it's because of the aftermath of the crisis without any dilemma young. that is why we need a strong employment policy today and why we must not allow any more lost years, any more lost dreams for a new generation of europeans.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the pandemic, with its violent second wave, is sending a loud message of danger and a signal to the european union. we need more and better europe to be able to achieve public health support, a sustainable and strong economic recovery in 2021 and to deliver on the goals that have been set. the european parliament is therefore calling for a budget for 2021 that is stronger, more ambitious and more socially oriented than the commission's proposal and much more so than the cuts that the council is making in the commission's proposal. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000. i hope that the adoption of the larrouturou and chastel report by a large majority will also give a boost to the tripartite dialogue, so that the commission and the council can take steps towards the european parliament's views to support cohesion policies, farmers and gender equality, together with the necessary effort on climate objectives and the digitisation of the economy. to support employment and to work effectively 'in action, not in words' to combat growing inequalities.
mr. chairman, when we talk about the 2021 budget, we're talking about the first of seven years that we're going to have in the seven-year financial envelope. when we talk about the 2021 budget, we are talking about the return of funds that we have paid into europe, into the european budget. the budget is not good. i would like to mention, for example, the horizon 2030 programme which was supposed to have up to 140 billion euros over seven years. you cut it to just 85 billion, and that, ironically, yesterday, on world science day for peace and development. but let us also mention how money is spent, or controlled. i had the personal honor of being in bulgaria for a few weeks in its capital city of sofia where i had the opportunity to speak. i had the honor of speaking to tens of thousands of protesters who had been protesting against the bulgarian government for four months. citizens were outraged that the european union, now 13 years since bulgaria joined the european union, is funding the bulgarian establishment. at the same time, bulgaria is, unfortunately, one of the poorest countries in europe. and my country, croatia, is right next to bulgaria, one of the poorest countries in europe, and in croatia, the people are outraged at the way the money from european funds is being spent. in croatia, there is de facto no effective control of european funds. when irregularities are detected, they are reported to olaf. olaf is handing it off to the national authority, afcos, which is part of the ministry of finance and according to their own claims, they have no mechanisms to control how that money is spent. they send a request to the croatian public prosecutor's office, which is traditionally ineffective, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to the body itself that announces the tenders, to control itself. so, the thief asks himself if he's a thief. he replies that he is not a thief and concludes that there is nothing wrong with the money. instead of wasting money like this, it would be better if we opened a universal basic income program and distributed that money to the citizens.
madam president, authoritarianism did not come to europe with covid, but, of course, in many countries covid is being used as an alibi to curtail fundamental rights and freedoms. ensuring that covid measures are applied in a non-discriminatory manner is crucial. we therefore support any proposal that fights against a classist, racist and sexist application of these measures and, therefore, we denounced the class confinements that were applied in the community of madrid. but just as important, this classism, this racism, this sexism was already present in access to basic rights before the pandemic: evictions, the commodification of health care, the precariousness of education, the keeping of thousands of people in irregularity, the sale of homes to vulture funds, energy poverty. let's not make the mistake of thinking that covid has created these inequalities. it is urgent to focus on the underlying problem: the neoliberal and ecocide policies that have been imposed for years in the countries of the european union. we must get out of this crisis not by cutting rights, but by gaining new rights. that's how we're gonna get out of this crisis.
madam chair, the lockdown has devastated many sectors of the economy. we see the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. that's not right. that is unacceptable. some countries have tried to help their economies by having central banks release large amounts of money. that money would then be lent to the commercial banks, so they would then have to lend that money to businesses and citizens. however, if you are facing bankruptcy, if you have no money, why would a commercial bank lend money to you or your company? of course they won't, and if they do, they'll borrow on very rigorous terms and at very high interest rates. you should have done the opposite. helicopter money was supposed to help central banks directly and without charge to businesses and individuals, and in this way, the money would not be stuck in the financial system. the long-term solution is a universal basic income that aims to redirect the wealth of an economy to its citizens, irrevocably and unconditionally.
mr. chairman, this week we witnessed potentially historic news that a vaccine against covid-19 is almost ready. on wednesday, the commission received another contract to buy up to 300 million doses of coronavirus vaccines that will be available to all member states and especially, initially, to those at risk groups that we need to protect the most. on the other hand, let's remember, the world health organization has declared vaccine resistance one of the top ten global health threats of 2019. anti-vaccination refers to the late acceptance or refusal of vaccines despite the availability of vaccination services. the question of the importance of vaccination should not be a controversial one in the 21st century. however, certain groups and politicians make it complex and questionable by using incomplete, false, and even dangerous information. that's why this kind of opposition to vaccination is a challenge we need to focus on. these contracts have provided europe with a wide range of vaccine candidates, most of which are in advanced trials, for its citizens. as for transparency in the procurement of future vaccines, i have to say that we all want a solution that is fast, safe and transparent. the negotiations and contracts concluded by the commission are fully in line with the rules and are an excellent example of concern for its own population. the right balance has been struck between protecting public health on the one hand and speed, transparency and accountability on the other. i regret that some politicians oppose this practice just to secure cheap political points, but i am glad to see that they have not succeeded, nor will they. europe is united and will remain united.
mr. chairman, the european commission's survey has shown that consumers are more inclined to repair products. of those, 77 percent would rather repair than replace a defective product. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. it is therefore clear that we must work on better consumer information. when purchasing, consumers must be informed of the details of the product, including, inter alia, information on the availability of spare parts and the possibility of repairing the product. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the advisory committee on plants, animals, food and feed, according to this survey, published in march of this year, in the european union, only 32 percent of respondents said they repaired a product. this is a worrying figure that shows a trend of consumer interest in repairing products declining. this information obliges us to make further efforts to establish the right to repair the product and to guarantee our consumers that they will be able to repair the product in a fast, efficient and affordable way. when we talk about consumer protection, in the context of a sustainable single market, attention should also be paid to the issue of early product obsolescence. and, of course, deliberately designing and building mechanisms into products to shorten their lifespan is unacceptable to us. however, what i would like to stress is that we do not need an ideological debate here, we do not need things based on individual extremist positions, but we need to make decisions as meps, based on facts and concrete data and information. and it's a special responsibility of all of us to have this kind of public debate. i would also like to stress that in addition to all the measures we take to protect consumers, we must also take into account the consequences of such measures for the single market. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union clearly states that the policies of the european union ensure a high level of consumer protection. it is therefore time to use the achievement of a sustainable single market as an opportunity to strengthen the rights of our consumers, in cooperation with businesses in the common market.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course we are debating this evening, right after a very important sustainability report, here is an intention of the commission to find new measures to increase consumer protection. of course, as vice-president of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i have always said that we need to strike a perfect balance between consumer protection and the development of businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses, and i am glad that you, commissioner, in your statements, which you have made on several occasions in the debates in the imco committee, have said that you intend, through the regulations you are making, not to impose administrative burdens, additional costs on smes. but we have to acknowledge that this covid crisis has shown us that they are vulnerable in terms of consumer protection. and if you, the commission, have proposed five directions for increasing consumer protection - in one of them you have explained that there is a shared responsibility for the member states, obviously - but, commissioner, you have answered many of my questions and perhaps you will answer them again tonight, the member states are no longer able to make bilateral agreements, trade agreements are signed, negotiated by the european commission. and so, commissioner, do you intend to include in this programme to increase consumer protection more concrete measures in these trade agreements, so that we can ensure that citizens are safe in consuming products or services, while at the same time ensuring fair competition in the internal market with european union companies? and i would also like to congratulate you, commissioner, on the fact that you have thought of proposing a directive on collective actions, because, yes, both consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises have very high costs to bring each action. i would like to know if you have a deadline, a deadline, when you think this directive will be, because on the one hand it is very costly and time-consuming to take legal action, because in many member states, as in my country, we do not have specialised commercial courts. that is why i believe, commissioner, that we need to have traceability - and that can be done through labelling - and we need to have control - and that can be done through a customs union put in place and through the national authorities who have to control what we decide here.
the new strategy for consumers, presented by the european commission, is a strategic document aimed at ensuring a high level of protection of consumers and their rights. in the circumstances of an unprecedented crisis, that is no easy task. the european consumers, 450 million of them, as the weaker party to the legal relationship with traders, must enjoy qualified legal protection. it is thanks to effective legal protection and a comprehensive consumer protection policy that the single market can function properly and effectively. empowering consumers and protecting their safety and economic interests are the priority objectives of european union policies. during the covid-19 crisis, consumer protection policies have proven to be key to guaranteeing the reimbursement of the cost of cancellation of services, combating the spread of disinformation and unfair trading practices, in particular by those selling fake or non-compliant medical equipment. however, while the european union has a long tradition of protecting consumers' rights, the crisis has shown us that there is room for improvement in the consumer protection system as well. in this context, the european commission has correctly identified the key priorities it wants to achieve in the next five-year period, in particular those relating to the green transition, the digital transformation, the level of legal protection and the protection of vulnerable groups. i would certainly like to highlight the issue of digital transformation and the new challenges that are emerging on the european market, such as the issue of the sale of defective products, the spread of fake news, which we must combat with all the instruments at our disposal. in this connection, i would point out that the legal protection that consumers should enjoy should be uniform throughout the european union so that consumers in croatia, germany, italy or the netherlands enjoy fully equal rights. in this sense, the european union needs to continue to build a consumer policy based on science, with the consumer at its core, and which sees business as partners in the implementation of that policy, not as enemies. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i welcome the new strategy and at the same time call for the lessons learned from the crisis to be used to guarantee a high level of consumer legal protection.
madam president, a fantastic achievement of the european union has been the development of a robust consumer law acquis, providing rights to consumers and also empowering them to make the right decisions. eu consumer law should largely be based on the principle that well-informed consumers make the best choices and that they can trust in an effective law enforcement. commissioner, like my s&d colleagues and many others, i welcome the update of the consumer agenda. i would like to highlight two specific issues. first of all, the notions of ‘average consumer’ and ‘vulnerable consumer’ which are used in eu law. i believe that, in the digital world, these notions need to be called into question because the consumer is faced with constant monitoring and manipulation. consumers are in a state of permanent digital vulnerability, or ‘vulnerability by default’. therefore, we need a shift away from the average consumer to the principle of ‘protection by default or by design’. this would be a clear and real reaction on the information asymmetries we face. i also believe, like many of us here, that legislation without effective enforcement puts at risk consumers’ trust and confidence in the single market. and here i arrive at my second topic. according to the regulation on air passengers’ rights, passengers should be reimbursed in seven days for cancelled flights. we all know that. even if we intend to help airlines overcome the extraordinary circumstances of the covid-19 pandemic and protect the employees – there are hundreds and thousands of employees in these companies – this can only happen without harming consumer rights. i believe that the recommendation of the commission on reimbursement for cancelled transport services in the context of the pandemic was necessary. however, on my written question, commissioner vălean answered that the responsibility of enforcement is linked to the national enforcement bodies and that the commission considers appropriate actions only in case of a systematic failure. well, i think there is a clear systematic failure in this case, but we do not see an effective reaction to that by the commission, so we should avoid such situations. if we want to keep consumers’ trust and confidence in the single market we have to do that. i hope that these examples help to clarify how we can develop our consumer agenda beyond 2020. consumer rights are in the dna of our socialists and democrats, and together with many colleagues and you, commissioner, we will advance and protect them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europeans want to consume more locally and more sustainably. they see the long-term benefits for their portfolios and the planet. the planet's health is its biodiversity, the fertility of its soil, its clean air, its clean drinking water and, of course, the living environment of its inhabitants. but let's face it, when you're buying, you have to be very clever to find your way around the information. who can claim to feel enlightened about the ecological and social impact of what they buy or consume? the past century has been one of consumption in all directions and at any cost. now let's move into the era of conscious consumption, responsible consumption, more social, more ecological, more "climate sustainable". this can only be achieved through clear and transparent information on the origin and composition of products. how much natural resources are consumed to manufacture such a product? what social practices in the production chain? what carbon footprint? what are the possibilities for redress? how long does the product last? what is the actual recycling rate? and for food: beyond the source and nutritional value, what chemical processes go through the production process? what is the residual dose of pesticides in food? ladies and gentlemen, our consumption patterns must change urgently. it is by relying on the intelligence and knowledge of consumers, through transparent and accessible information, that we will ultimately produce more locally and more responsibly.
president, commissioner reynders, thank you for explaining this ambitious agenda. but the desired result is in the making and we expect something from you. without consumer confidence, there is no market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i believe that consumers should be better protected online than offline. offline, you see what you buy. you can feel it. you can see it. online, you don't know where your store is. is it in china or is it on the corner? a survey in germany shows that one in four consumers is exposed to online fraud, and 30% actually lose money by falling victim to it. i think we should provide fantastic protection. i do not know exactly how, but perhaps by delaying the banks so that the money can be reclaimed later, because if you lose your money, you have very few rights as a consumer, because go and make a small purchase with a seller in china or anywhere. we hope that you will then come with proposals, which will be embodied in a regulation, full harmonized legislation in a single internal market, and not that member states will have to transpose the directives, which will give us a kind of scottish blanket with all kinds of different levels of legislation, which will leave the consumer not knowing what he is up against, but also the companies. so regulations are good for business and good for consumers. promoting safe products is very important. but what's also very important -- and we've seen that with covid-19 -- is to promote healthy lifestyles. and perhaps we can encourage that with the proposals you are going to make, and we are counting on that. secondly, there must be reciprocity, in the sense that companies from outside the european union that offer products in the european union and make money there must comply fully with all the european protection laws that we know. i would also like to point out that large companies do not have any influence on democracy, and a great example of this is that after ten years the universal charger has still not been introduced because apple does not want it, and that is actually a disgrace to democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that online consumption has increased considerably in recent years and that more and more european citizens are relying on the internet to make their purchases. in addition, the restrictions resulting from the measures necessary to contain covid have pushed consumers further towards this commercial mode, increasing online purchases, which have even doubled from 32 to 60% since 2009. the new consumer agenda is timely, as we must recognise that existing legislation is no longer adequate to fully protect our consumers, just as businesses cannot be fully satisfied with their access to the digital market. at present, the goods we buy online are not subject to comparable controls to those that traditional distributors have to comply with, and this often causes great dissatisfaction for many goods and services purchased online. in the case of food purchases, the greatest risk is that of low quality or counterfeit products, with potential health risks. we must be careful about initiatives to modernise digital services, giving priority to both consumer and producer protection. the role of digital platforms, which has increased significantly in recent years, must be more accountable for the services they offer and we must pay the utmost attention to vulnerable users to protect them from fraud or misconduct. unfair commercial practices that violate consumers' right to make an informed choice by abusing their behavioural inclinations or by altering their decision-making processes through hidden or misleading advertising must be combated. finally, i welcome the fact that global producers, such as china, are providing full cooperation in guarantee checks and that therefore foreign products entering the european single market are not harmful to buyers or to our companies operating and producing in europe.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen of the house, i would like to thank you again for this debate and for the previous one and i am pleased that your assembly is fully committed to the implementation of the new consumer agenda. as i mentioned at the beginning of our debate, your role in the development of the priorities and actions set out in this agenda is paramount and i would like to return to a number of aspects, first of all by welcoming the fact that you are looking not only at the policy we could pursue within the european union, but also at how to pursue this policy in international agreements, i am thinking in particular of trade agreements. a number of policies will indeed have to be used to achieve our objectives and not just specifically consumer policy in the european union. there are of course other frameworks to be used in the same way. i would now like to return to some of the questions raised. eu harmonisation has brought solid progress for consumer policy. many eu consumer laws follow this approach, such as the directive on pre-contractual information and rights of withdrawal for online contracts. however, when proposing new legislation we need to carefully consider the level of protection in the different member states. sometimes minimum harmonisation is chosen so that member states have a possibility to go beyond common eu requirements in certain areas. therefore, the commission will decide on the level of harmonisation of its proposal on a case-by-case basis. we need to work on concrete enforcement of the rights enshrined in eu law for consumers, and for protection of consumers. for example, the commission opened 11 infringement proceedings against member states that adopted national measures contrary to the package travel directive during the pandemic. four proceedings are still open, and in addition i wrote on 30 october to 10 member states that are now back in compliance with eu rules but that had adopted national legislation contrary to the package travel directive. i urged them to take measures to remedy the situation created by their past legislation which ran counter to union law and to ensure that consumers actually get their rights in accordance with the package travel directive. i also reminded them of the primacy of eu law and some will continue to work, to organize, of course, consumer protection, but more than that, to go to real enforcement of consumer rights. and we will pay attention to some categories of consumers, vulnerable ones like children, but we will also pay attention to other kinds of people i'm thinking about people having difficulties to use digital tools, like people with disabilities. for them, we need to organize better accessibility. the geo-blocking regulation was adopted in 2018. as explained in the consumer agenda, the commission is evaluating its impact and will publish a report. this report will include an assessment of the possible application of new rules to certain electronically supplied services which offer copyright protected content, such as music, e-books, software and online games, as well as of services in sectors such as transport and audiovisual. the commission is of course strongly committed to tackling all kinds of unfair commercial practices, including practices that suggest to consumers that goods have the same composition and characteristics when this is not the case. in this context, the commission will continue to work with the member states and their competent authorities to ensure the correct and timely transposition of the new rules in the unfair commercial practices directive. these rules have been introduced by the better enforcement and modernisation directive that will apply across the eu from may 2022. moreover, as dual quality cases are cross-border cases by nature, the commission will facilitate and support the work of the competent authorities of the member states under the new consumer protection cooperation (cpc) regulation. as announced in the agenda, the commission will come up with further concrete proposals in the following months and years, and in the second quarter of next year three legislative proposals will be tabled: an initiative to empower consumers in the green transition, a review of the consumer credit directive and a review of the general product safety directive. so i'm looking forward to working further with you in the preparation and follow-up of these proposals. our goal is to build a real trust in consumers in the good functioning of the internal market and in the safety and sustainability of all products offered in the eu, offline and online, and of course, i am sure that we will work together to build such a trust within the european union. so thank you again for this opportunity to present to you the consumer agenda. thank you for your attention, and thank you for your proposals.
in writing. the covid pandemic and the economic crisis it has generated are affecting consumers in an unprecedented way. we need an ambitious european strategy that protects consumers and empowers and gives them confidence in making decisions, as consumers in turn will be key to economic recovery. we also need to protect our consumers in the digital realm; following the principle that what is illegal offline is also illegal online, we must ensure security when shopping online. it is something we have already addressed in the report with recommendations to the commission on the digital services act: an improvement in the functioning of the single market, but which we must continue to develop in this new strategy. finally, we must emphasize that this process must include everyone, and that special attention must be paid to consumers who are minors or who have a disability.
the european commission published the new consumer agenda on 13 november, which aims to put consumers at the centre of the digital and ecological transitions as the driving force behind the recovery from this crisis. the covid-19 crisis has brought to light the vulnerability of consumers to counterfeit products, cancellation of trips, online scams, etc. this agenda takes note of the situations that have occurred during this pandemic and sets out the roadmap to be followed during the next five years. consumption accounts for 50% of europe's gdp, so it is essential to safeguard consumers and to try to give them a high level of protection. the new consumer agenda covers five key areas. these are: green transition, digital transformation, respect for consumer rights, protection of the needs of vulnerable consumers and international cooperation. with the rise of electronic commerce, we must protect citizens who shop online. the commission therefore plans to develop an action plan with china in 2021 to improve the safety of products sold online.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, a warm greeting to god, dear mairead mcguinness. i think this is the first time in your new role that you're not up there as vice president, but you're up here with the commissioners. welcome, and i look forward to working with you in the future. let me say a few words about what we are debating today. there are just a few things that go into the mifid adjustment that we're talking about. the mifid itself is a very large, very complex body of legislation, and the commission has rightly identified a few points where we now have to give answers, also in view of the situation in 2020. i just want to make a few points. firstly, i am glad that we can now speak in plenary. i would like to make it quite clear that at no time was it possible for the committee to discuss this dossier even briefly, for the commission to present its topics, or for us to have a conversation. i don't think that's acceptable, and i'm not going to do it. the way the european parliament is working at this point is very, very unsatisfactory, to put it very clearly. i do not think it is acceptable that we are making legislation permanently without even having a debate. and i even had to fight to have this debate here today, otherwise the whole thing would have gone through without debate. this is not the way. secondly, we have to think about this. is it covid-relevant or is it not covid-relevant what we're doing here? i think what the covid pandemic has shown us is that companies that were well-positioned before the crisis have done very well so far. but when companies start to adapt to new challenges, they have a very difficult time. the commission's proposal is aimed at this. how can we facilitate access to capital for companies and access to companies for investors? and that is precisely the challenge that we are facing, that we must address at this time. so the question is, in a very concrete way, how do we better match supply and demand? i would also like to say quite frankly that this is not about undermining investor protection, as some people claim. yes, sorry, if we stop overwhelming a professional investor who really does nothing else day in and day out, who knows what it's all about, with information - i can't say it any other way - then it's not a softening of consumer protection, but then the challenge is to give professional investors the opportunity to make a decision, but not to overwhelm them by constantly being overwhelmed with new information. this is not deregulation, this is adaptation. the same applies to the admission of new smes to the capital market. i don't know what the problem is. i am surprised that, for example, a dossier from esma is not accepted here, which clearly states that our regulations make it difficult for new companies - in particular the excellent midcaps, which are world leaders in their segment, although they employ only a few people - to access the capital market. the commission is taking what esma says and suddenly esma is no longer relevant. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of the free movement of capital, which is the basis for the free movement of capital. i'm wondering where we are. i was in chicago in 2008 looking at the commodity futures markets; i have looked at the mifid commodity futures markets in london in preparation so that we can get the best out of the people of europe, which is no speculation in food. and now there are even organizations like finance watch, which we fund from the budget of the european union, who are sending emails around here claiming that we are allowing food speculation. the commission proposal clearly states: no! the council's decision clearly states: no! the resolution of parliament clearly states: no! what's the matter? it is about us wanting to move forward with the transformation of our energy supply in europe. we must give new entrants to the market - a small cooperative running its wind farm, a small group running a solar plant - the opportunity to survive in the market. the transactions will take place either in the european union with the euro, with european partners, or they will be hedged outside europe, with investors from other countries outside the european union. is that what we're trying to do? if we want the green deal to succeed, we have to allow it to succeed. i understand that some of my colleagues have ideological problems. but my dear friends, this is not about ideology. it is about preparing europe, making it operational, strengthening the euro, making our business here in the european union attractive to investors from the european union. i therefore ask you to support the econ committee's decision in this plenary.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank you very much madam vice-president, thank you colleagues and thank you mr ferber for your warm welcome back to my old home. it’s very hot in here and perhaps this debate will be a heated one but a very necessary one. and as it is my first return to parliament: i do miss you somewhat, but i hope that i can do good service for europe now as commissioner. you’ve dealt with some of the issues, but i want to just say that this debate is important because we need clarity, and therefore i hope i can provide that to you. i want to thank mr ferber for his work and for this report. it is a very important part of our capital markets recovery package, and this was proposed in july. and we want it to help the recovery from this covid-19 crisis and we want it agreed as soon as possible, because time is of the essence in terms of getting capital flowing to where it’s needed. there are some concerns, and i’m sure i’ll hear them spelled out in detail this evening and i will listen very carefully to them. but first, let me address some issues, which may help our understanding. the first point is that our recovery from this crisis has to be green: i’ve made that statement in every comment i’ve made publicly since becoming commissioner. the green energy transition needs to be accompanied by greater liquidity and transparency in the markets for energy derivatives. producers of green energy, electricity from wind or solar, need to negotiate forward contracts. these contracts secure a minimum price for energy produced from renewable sources, and these forward supply contracts are derivative contracts. they secure a certain price for green energy. these forward contracts serve the real economy by providing some certainty to investors in the growing renewable energy sector. this is not about price speculation; it’s about certainty for those who are investing. second, to be effective, forward supply contracts need to be liquid and available on a new generation of energy exchanges. if we maintain the current low position limit of 25% of market participants, these energy exchanges simply will not take off. and this is particularly important for energy contracts in smaller member states, as contracts for forward delivery of green energy are still in their infancy. at most, there are often two or three market participants offering such hedging tools, and this means that all of these market players would be in breach of the 25% position limit even before the market takes off, and i’m sure you agree that is not what we want to see. my third point is that there is a clear link to the covid pandemic. energy prices have been volatile due to the more erratic demand for energy. production capacity has ebbed and flowed in line with covid restrictions. it is crucial that we protect the income for renewable energy producers when demand for energy is volatile. fourthly, i want to be very clear that the commission is not using the covid crisis as a cover to introduce opportunities for food or energy price speculation. the proposed amendments do not apply to agriculture derivatives or derivatives for food for human consumption. the proposed amendments also do not apply to mature energy derivative markets. these markets will remain subject to the rules agreed with parliament in 2016. securing a decent price for the delivery of green energy is not price speculation. so in conclusion, inaction on energy derivative reform means that there are no transparent energy exchanges offering derivative contracts for electricity produced in smaller member states. in our preparatory work we have presented evidence to this effect. some will argue that there is no rush in reforming energy markets and that volatility is not going to last. i would just say that the covid-19 crisis hit us harder and over a longer time period than any of us expected, and indeed, when my staff started working on this, this was not the case. so we are living with a more prolonged situation. therefore, we cannot afford to postpone this important reform of energy markets for another year. the proposed measures are more important than ever. they should be adopted by the end of this year to make it easier for capital markets to support european businesses to recover from the crisis. thank you, and i look forward to what i hope will be a very stimulating debate and where there is better understanding of the issues that may be in play at the moment.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i would like to congratulate mr ferber on his excellent report, which is aimed at re-shaping the future, and on his passionate speech. we must turn many screws to help citizens and businesses to get out of the crisis. the nextgenerationeu investment plan, the green deal, the eu long-term budget and our monetary policy measures must and will be followed by the financial market with this report, and we want to put it more fully at the service of our common future. because unlike the 2008 financial crisis, when a few banks were the source of the problem, the financial sector is now part of the solution. we have already successfully tightened the first screw in the banking sector. at record speed, banking rules were revised to mobilise €450 billion in additional credit. we have preferred the extended sme support factor to make loans, pension loans and infrastructure financing easier and more widely available. we have relaxed capital rules for software investments to respond to digitization. the second screw is being turned, namely the package of measures for the recovery of the capital markets. we adopt this ferber report in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens, to promote the recapitalisation of companies and to strengthen the international role of the euro by supporting the development of the energy derivatives market. we are working on the right dosage of the financial instrument of securitisations, which i am negotiating with paul tang, to increase support for smes, to further stimulate lending and to create new investment opportunities. we are developing an eu reconstruction prospectus to help companies raise capital in the form of equity rather than going into debt. we've been working on a lot of screws, a lot of areas. we are not done yet, but we must use this time to reduce risks, eliminate problems and actively address challenges. we can't waste any more time. it takes confidence and commitment.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, madam commissioner, welcome and good luck at this first appearance in the european parliament's plenary. you inherit a dossier which is not easy in this house: there are many groups who do not like the quick fix which the commission has put forward. i think you are aware of this, because we have the impression that we are on a path which is going to dismantle everything that we had worked so hard to build up from the g20 after the last financial crisis and some of these measures are clearly going in the direction of deregulating finance, in a direction which seems to us very dangerous. i went into mifid, first of all, the position limit regime that was introduced to prevent commodity speculation in the energy sector. we cannot forget that this measure was introduced precisely after the food price crisis in 2009 and in 2011 to avoid a repeat of this issue. the commission maintains, and today reminds us, that the proposed changes to this system are carefully calibrated, because they will not apply to agricultural commodity products; this is true, but what is completely ignored is the strong interrelation between energy markets and food markets. obviously, if there is a speculative attack on energy prices this will affect food markets, something that oxfam and finance watch have reminded us of, and they are right, mr ferber. i should also like to say, commissioner, that the mifid directive states very clearly that before you touch on this scheme you should have submitted an environmental impact assessment, which you have not done. i know we have the esma study, but the mifid directive doesn't mandate esma to do this, it mandates you, and this impact assessment study we don't have yet. so this reform does not satisfy us in any way. but there are also other measures which are added to these - as i said before - and which are very worrying, for example: how is it possible for the commission to introduce, in another reform, preferential treatment to synthetic securitisation, where the transfer of risk is achieved through the use of derivatives, when we know that derivatives on the financial markets were at the heart of the financial crisis? or, for example, what is the rationale for the proposal that securitisation of non-performing loans should be given better treatment in terms of capital requirements? we have the impression that we are giving a covert subsidy to the banks in exchange for increased systemic risk, and that is a profound mistake. these measures do not help finance the real economy of families, they only increase risk and financialization, and i think what we have to ask ourselves is: when the next financial crisis comes - and we know that we have very important risks ahead of us - will these measures that we are taking help us deal with the financial crisis better or will we be in worse condition? we certainly do not think that we are going in the right direction and, in the specific case of mifid, it would be reasonable, sensible, to postpone this partial reform, to wait for the overall reform that we have to make, so that you can do your environmental impact assessment, and, with that, to face a global reform of the directive. these reforms, rushed and rushed in this way, of regimes as delicate and important as the one on the limits of positions, i think are not taking us on the right track.
madam chair, we are in the midst of the greatest crisis since world war ii - both economic and social. as in every crisis, the rich get richer, the poor get poorer. today in the european union 700 000 citizens live without a roof over their heads, living on the streets. we have 700,000 homeless people. only a few citizens in this world have more wealth than half the population. when it comes to entrepreneurship, the most important thing for any entrepreneur is the means. the funds can come from the commitment, however, what's the commitment, what's the funds if you don't have anyone to sell the product to. we live in the age of the greatest campaign of fear. fear is the greatest enemy of consumption. if we don't stop the campaign of fear, citizens won't spend, and if citizens don't spend, businesses fail. if the entrepreneurs fail, there are no jobs, there are no more consumers. we must stop the campaign of fear immediately and allow businessmen and citizens to start living normally.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, after the fall of totalitarian and undemocratic regimes, europe has come a long way in the protection and promotion of the fundamental rights of all citizens. our human rights standards are today, with little doubt, the highest in the world. violations of those rights, however, still exist in many different areas, especially among vulnerable groups such as women, children in poverty, and people with disabilities. our responsibility is to clearly address this and suggest ways to improve their protection 10 years after the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this annual report is meant to monitor the progress of fundamental rights in europe, showing how the charter has been taken into account, but also identifying current trends and areas for further improvement. the protection of universal human rights should certainly not be a point for ideological battles. personal political convictions should not overshadow an inclusive and objective evaluation of human rights in europe. a good example of this need for a universal and comprehensive approach is the issue of migration. we need to strongly support the fundamental right to seek asylum, but we cannot ignore the need to fight human smuggling or the need to comply with international and union law. the protection of human rights should not be a topic for divisions on policy differences. on the contrary, this should be an opportunity for a strong and broad commitment to inalienable human dignity, otherwise we risk undermining the importance of human rights protection systems.
mr president, when we talk about fundamental rights, we are actually talking about protecting and preserving democracy. every democracy must have the tools to prevent an individual or a small group of people from taking all the power, must have the tools to prevent a dictatorship. in the past, dictatorships were mostly military; today we are threatened by a potential financial dictatorship, so in the world, and so in europe, you have from america to china a small group of extremely rich people, billionaires. they're getting richer as time goes on, and we see this crisis has made them even stronger. an individual is richer than entire nations, so you have an individual who is richer than entire nations in the world, a few of them are richer than billions of people. these people didn't just get it from their skills, they got it from the society in which they worked and developed. so i propose that we limit these people's wealth and use it as one of the sources of funding for the universal basic income program.
mr. president, the record 200 million voters who voted across europe gave us the confidence to represent them here - in the only elected body of the european union. we therefore have a special responsibility to face the challenges that need to be addressed at european level. this is probably more evident than ever in the circumstances of a global pandemic. in addition, digital, climate and demographic changes are still present and accelerating, and require a common response. it is therefore encouraging that european citizens, and especially young people, are becoming more aware of the importance of participating in the democratic life of europe. europeans have different perspectives on key european challenges, depending on their generation, their member state of origin, but also on their personal political beliefs. all these perspectives must be represented in an open, free and constructive european political debate - both here in the european parliament and at the conference on the future of europe, but also in our member states and local communities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching a decisive council that is awash in too much, too much hypocrisy. the words of the leftists and the fratricidal ones from the benches of the epp, those of many governments and the mainstream media, all telling us a prepackaged and self-consolatory truth, which sees the supposed enemies of europe blackmailing everyone else from warsaw and budapest. unfortunately, the opposite is true. it is the left in this parliament, blinded by ideological hatred, that is slowing down the recovery funds, and it is the governments of the frugal countries which, it must be admitted with a certain consistency, have never wanted the recovery fund, and they do so by introducing a conditionality on the rule of law which is outside the treaties, in order to blackmail today orbán and morawiecki and tomorrow iohannis and any other government which does not accept their diktats. now stop the hypocrisy, respect the treaties, go back to the july rule of law agreement and unlock the recovery funds, or millions of europeans who are suffering will be holding you to account.
madam president, mr orbán happens to be an important leader of the epp. his abuses have long been tolerated and he knows that the council and the commission will eventually find some, perhaps messy, way out. as long as member states can exercise with power, grand statements from this parliament about the rule of law are mostly hypocritical. speaking is easy. this parliament really needs to support the rule of law in a concrete and credible way. to start with, this parliament should not tolerate the fact that concern for human rights is applied selectively, turning the internal affairs attention switch on and off depending on what member state we are looking at. for catalans, the european institutions keep attention turned off. our human rights are not their concern. so, for example, the commission can report on the rule of law in spain and have the nerve to ignore amnesty international and the united nations group on the tensions. please stop hypocrisy in this parliament.
madam president, we are 36 days away from brexit and the recovery fund is blocked, and the european council is not allowed to be present in this debate. i think that is a clear expression of what is happening to us in the european union. i would ask the presidency not to hold a debate like this again, feeling the council's contempt for parliament. we have not had such a need to be united and to work together since the wars as we have now, but we have not made such a great effort since the wars to provide ourselves with funds, to provide ourselves with european money to save europeans. that's why i want you to think about the united kingdom, because by being outside the european union, you're going to be outside the recovery fund. next year, for the first time, the europeans will give each other money that will not come from any state but from our joint debt; but the united kingdom will not, because the united kingdom will be out of the eu next year. family is there when you need it and so is the european union, and now you're going to see how bad it is when you're alone. without a recovery fund, without a single market if we don't reach an agreement and without donald trump, the uk can become a true economic island. that is why we must make an effort, not only because we feel connected to them, but because they are our neighbours, to try to help them so that the coming year is not the blackest in their entire history. and that is why it is little understood that, from within the european union, some countries are trying to block the recovery fund. we can discuss euros, we can discuss money, but we cannot discuss principles and we cannot act against our own interest. almost 300,000 europeans have died since the pandemic began, and millions are losing their jobs and their connection to the world. these victims do not deserve that we should be playing illiberal political games here.
madam president, i too want to start by remembering the women who are victims of gender-based violence, because it is the worst aspect of the inequality, discrimination and machismo that women in the world suffer. and we have been fighting against these violations of rights and against many others for years in this parliament. and we're not going to back down one bit. that is why i want to send three messages to the next european council. firstly, that the agreements on the financial framework and the rule of law, negotiated by this parliament with the german presidency, are balanced, sensible agreements and supported by a very large majority in this house. and i want to be very clear: the negotiations are closed and the agreements with this parliament are not amendable. secondly, i think we can all agree that a solution of 27 is the best of all solutions. if there is one thing that characterizes the european union, it is negotiation and agreement. i believe that we are in time to close this chapter with complete success and the german presidency has our full support in this. my third message must also be very clear: the ultimate objective must be to put in place the conditionality mechanism, the long-term budgets and the recovery plan, and to be able to issue debt to finance them. and we're not gonna let anything put that in question. if we can't do it by the usual procedure, we'll do it with alternatives. and, in case it is not clear, whatever happens and whatever happens, citizens will have a rule of law mechanism, budgets and a recovery plan.
madam president, the first thing is to pay tribute today, 25 november, to the victims of gender-based violence and their families and promise them that we will continue to fight to get ahead, so that it ends with the ratification of the istanbul convention. with regard to the blockade of hungary and poland which we are dealing with today, some would prefer that this parliament should take the option that, because the recovery fund is so essential, we should put aside the rule of law mechanism. that's not gonna happen. this parliament is not going to reopen any of the agreements that are already closed. and that has to be clear to everyone. mr zanni also tells us that we may have to abandon the community method of unblocking it. we do not have to abandon the community method. we have perfectly good mechanisms, as has been said here, to carry out the recovery fund without abandoning the community method. i would like to pay tribute to the mayors of budapest and warsaw, who have raised their pro-european voices from hungary and poland. and i also want to tell the friends of the people's party that orbán is acting the way he is acting because he has been protected for too long. it is time to take decisions, because if we do not, the credibility of this parliament in defending the rule of law will be undermined as long as orbán remains in the ranks of the european people's party.
i would like to take this opportunity to ask you, madam president, why there is no effective system in croatia for checking the european funds? why is there no effective system in bulgaria for verifying the european funds? if you're going to fund programs like the universal basic income, you have to make sure that money doesn't flow everywhere. why is it that throughout europe money is allowed to go into the pockets of thieves who are closely connected with the authorities in their countries instead of the citizens who paid for it? in croatia, the body that is supposed to control this is called afcos - it just claims it doesn't have the authority to do the control. now, why is this mess there? why does this mess and this crime suit anyone? is it because there's no competition from those countries, is it because you don't really care? and for croatia, is it because the croatian prime minister is your friend?
madam president, in these uncertain times for millions of europeans finding concrete solidarity in health and economic crisis should certainly be on the top of the leaders’ agenda in december. there is another topic however that deserves our utmost attention and that is the fight against violent extremism. the recent islamist terrorist attacks in vienna and across france have once again shocked europe but also shown that the need for a stronger european fight against terrorism and radicalisation is really necessary. this is not only a french or austrian tragedy, but this is also an attack on europe. only last year there were more than 100 prevented, failed or completed terrorist attacks across the eu, and more than 1 000 individuals were arrested on suspicion of terrorism-related offenses. this shows that fights on multiple fronts, including on online platforms, coordination and appropriate funding can prevent such attacks. freedom requires security and protection of citizens – from the pandemic from the economic crisis – but also from brutal terrorism.
mr. chairman, the pharmaceutical industry has organized several hundred conferences, symposia, meetings - everything over the past decades. there hasn't been a single conference, a single symposium on covid-19, on a vaccine, in the last year. what's this about, how is this possible? the main man speaking, the main authority speaking about covid-19, and vaccines and the number of people on the planet, became the person who assembled computers in his own garage. people are saying, is this some kind of conspiracy theory? what's this all about? no, this is a carefully crafted business plan worth several trillion euros. who contributed to this? they've been contributed by the media that have become fake news factories, by the quasi-scientists -- their profession has nothing to do with immunology -- and so on; they've been enabled by cheap politicians. what is to be done? we need to stop this, we need to talk. we in this home need to talk about vaccines, about treatments. also, they have to organize professional symposia, doctors have to say. we don't know what the doctors are saying today because they're silent.
the pharmaceutical strategy for europe is based on a holistic, patient-centred approach, which will ensure the supply of safe and affordable medicines to meet the needs of all patients and guarantee the sustainability of health systems. drug shortages have been a problem for years. the 2019 survey, which covered 24 member states, showed that one in four countries did not have a system for reporting drug shortages and that their pharmacies had problems with drug shortages. the main challenge is that almost 80% of the active ingredients for the production of medicines are imported from third countries. in this context, i believe that the european union needs to create the conditions and reduce bureaucracy and regulatory obstacles in order to bring the pharmaceutical industry as much as possible and enable its development in all parts of the european union, including those less developed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work. one concrete model for future european cooperation concerns access to innovative medicines. they're not available today primarily because they're expensive. there is a model that would allow for greater availability of expensive medicines, and that is the common european public procurement. the math is simple - if the european union negotiates as a whole, the negotiating position of the member states is much more favourable, and the final price of medicines for health systems and citizens is cheaper. it is time that we, through joint procurement, enable lower prices for expensive drugs, primarily for rare diseases and childhood cancers.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam vice-president, in the most difficult moments for europe, in a time of deep uncertainty and in the run-up to christmas that will be different from previous ones, it is encouraging that agreement has been reached on the multiannual financial framework and the european recovery package. in this context, the first annual budget since the start of the pandemic and the first budget without the united kingdom will be an important and necessary step towards europe's recovery. we are expected to show concrete solidarity with the most affected countries, economic sectors and generations. sadly, it seems that once again, young people will be the hardest hit by the economic crisis. that is why we must not allow another lost year for generations of young europeans, and that was one of the principles that guided us in drawing up this budget. the recovery will only be possible with dynamic smes, which are the engine of the european economy, and with further investment in the modernisation of europe - investing in health, digitalisation and infrastructure. in this crisis, an unprecedented health and economic crisis, we must continue to transform our economies, but this is not possible without a smart, high-quality use of european funds, without the use of the european budget, and so i congratulate everyone on the successful agreement on the 2021 budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy we are discussing today will be decisive in supporting smes in the dual transition to a digital and green europe. i would stress three areas where the european union can make a difference: simplification, by drastically reducing the administrative burden on smes and by setting a binding target to reduce the bureaucratic burden by at least 30%. this implies constant monitoring of all legislative initiatives covering these companies. secondly, by promoting innovation and digital transformation, for example through programmes to support science, innovation, training in smes, as well as other measures that make the innovation ecosystem in europe stronger. finally, barriers to investment and access to finance must be removed. recovery measures should be linked to national and regional initiatives in order to maximise opportunities for smes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the present crisis is likely to make small and mediumsized enterprises pay the heaviest price. this is why it is essential to ensure their liquidity and allocate resources to make them protagonists in the challenges of the future, such as the green and digital revolutions. the report we are voting on has the merit of recognising the role of smes as the real backbone of the community economy, of highlighting the importance of ever greater administrative simplification and of adequate support for the search for innovation. the need to create a favourable economic ecosystem enabling smes to realise their full potential. smes are also a pillar of european exports. this should be supported by raising awareness of the opportunities offered by trade agreements and by including dedicated chapters in trade agreements to negotiate preferential conditions for access to foreign markets, to remove non-tariff barriers and to improve regulatory cooperation.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner thierry breton is right: if we are to learn from the crisis and finally achieve strategic autonomy, we must help european champion companies. but we do not have the same definition of what these famous european champions are, and we do not share the same priorities in terms of strategic autonomy. when the commission thinks of the large companies in industry, defence, aviation and the carbon-intensive automobile industry, i think of smes, which provide a social link, short circuits, ecological regeneration and employment in our territories. the real strategic fabric for europe is not the 40,000 or so multinationals and large companies with no territorial anchorage and capitalizing on the crisis. it is the 24 million smes that feed us and create jobs. unfortunately, these are the ones who have suffered the most from the crisis. i do not want to oppose smes and multinationals here, but i want to show the unequal treatment of state aid in europe. to date, less than 10% of the 3 000 billion in state aid goes to small and medium-sized enterprises. the remaining 90% is taken up by large companies. this disproportion is unacceptable. so yes, let us invest in our strategic autonomy, let us support our european champions, but let us do it in a fairer, more balanced, more proportionate way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, smes are not only the backbone of our economy, they are also the legs on which europe runs. the european union is a community of 25 million enterprises, employing 66% of our total workforce, over 100 million europeans. 99% of all european businesses are smes and they alone account for over half of gdp, but they are in trouble today and in this terrible pandemic we must not leave them alone. europe has mobilized enormous resources for recovery, but it is not enough to allocate funds. the billions from the recovery fund, the eib investments and all the european funds in the next financial cycle absolutely must reach smes, especially those hardest hit by this pandemic in the tourism, catering, creative, mobility and beyond sectors. we must also strengthen our smes for the future, and we must focus on digitalisation, training and innovation. these are the points made by the rapporteur, and i thank him for presenting a balanced and acceptable document, which we shall therefore support.
the commission has already done so. parliament is recommending a strategy for smes today, yes. a special thanks to those involved, including jens gieseke always on the move towards better regulation and sme definition. yes, we recommend cutting red tape today. we must recognize that the opposite is true. we are looking at a supply chain law, as proposed by the european parliament. this will not be possible for an sme, a small enterprise with 250 employees and 90% of exports. but there are hundreds of these in europe. we have a taxonomy that prescribes ecological criteria for loans and corporate governance - that is a significant intrusion into the sovereignty of companies. do not the factories already have to comply with the most stringent environmental and climate regulations in the world? why the complicated environmental proof now when you need funding? ladies and gentlemen, the energy transition and sustainable production can only succeed if we take farms with us and do not put them at risk. that is why the commission must now take action. the additional administrative burden must be relieved elsewhere. one in, one out is the rule we were promised at the beginning of the legislature. you're not serious?
mr. chairman, we've had a very difficult year. it's hard for everybody these days. with the health crisis that we're hopefully going to beat soon, we have a very, very tough battle to fight to get the economy back on track. there is a fight to stay in the market, both small and large, and now is the right time for coordinated european support to the economy because of the pandemic, but also because of the need for a digital and green transformation of our economy. of course, this costs and burdens must not fall on the shoulders of the farmers alone. and so, remember, there are projects and investments that can be delayed, but the economy needs help now and right now, and at the same time, states need to make many necessary and too long overdue reforms to relieve the strain on our economy. then it will lead to competitiveness in the economy, then it will lead to new jobs, to gdp growth. and let this new strategy be the guiding thread for our 2021-2027 budget, a permanent and solid foundation for our economy to preserve and strengthen for all that awaits us tomorrow. good luck with that.
mr president, this strategy and the measures we are proposing on behalf of parliament will be able to help many businesses. unfortunately, for a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, in the hospitality sector, in the tourism sector, this measure will not help. what can help them the most? it may help them to limit pcr tests to a maximum of 25 cycles. currently and since the start of the pandemic, pcr tests are being conducted at 45 iterations. above 35 repetitions, the false positive test is 100%. this has been established by numerous scientific papers. this has now been confirmed by judgments of the portuguese courts in the cases brought by german citizens. we limit the tests to 25 repetitions. we'll have a disproportionately lower number of both sick and dead.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you guys! that water is vital to all of us is pretty obvious - it's vital to us humans, to the animals, to the plants, to the ecosystem, to our entire environment. clean drinking water is something that we all need to have access to in our daily lives. that is why we believe that we must strengthen the right to water. the citizens' initiative which got so many behind it, which demanded just that, shows that this is important to people all over europe, and it put such pressure on the commission and the council and on us in parliament. there will be public water fountains, of course with free water. but we all know that's not enough. the right to water must be strengthened in other ways too, and we must continue to work together on this. water also needs to be better protected. we're making some progress in that area. if the water contains too many dangerous chemicals, microplastics and other things that have been discussed here, it is clear that it ultimately affects our entire living environment. water affects us, both directly and indirectly, and in every, every chain. we have heard here ourselves how we really need to reform agriculture so that it also contributes to a better protection of water. the eu framework directive is an important step in protecting water. therefore, it is important that it has not been opened for audit. instead, we must ensure that it is properly implemented in all member states. because of course resources are needed, and we in the european parliament will be watching to see that both the council and the commission and the member states do more.
madam chair, water is the source of life. for decades, it has been promoted that bottled water is healthier than tap water. but what the public doesn't know is that most of the water in those plastic bottles is being filled up in the city's water mains. you're so responsible for yourself. look at the label on each bottle of water, and if the source is not indicated, it is the city's water supply. city tap water is extremely acceptable and healthy in most cities, but what is polluting our tap water? it's micro plastics, it's food that's, like, grown in a genetically modified way, it's antibiotics that our food is filled with. we have to stop this and we'll have clean water.
madam vice-president, in this christmas season of deep uncertainty for millions of families across europe, after an exceptionally difficult year, the most vulnerable deserve concrete european solidarity. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the european border and coast guard agency. the additional funding for employment measures, small and medium-sized enterprises, job-preservation support, but also for business working capital will be particularly important for the less developed member states to recover as quickly as possible. the possibility of 100% european funding and funding of projects already implemented or planned will be additional assistance. for the most affected sectors, such as tourism and culture, for the most affected generations, in economic terms, it is the young, but also for the most affected areas, rural, less developed and demographically vulnerable areas.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (record). the suspension and slowdown of economic activity has caused enormous economic and social damage, and cohesion policy is a key instrument in combating these consequences. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the context of the union's climate change strategy. the commission should be able to use the resources of the react-eu budget to support the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is used to support the union's macro-financial assistance. i am thinking primarily of those countries that are heavily dependent on tourism and the service sector that have suffered the most from the pandemic. of course, i would also mention the border regions which have also suffered greatly during this epidemic due to the restrictions on mobility. i particularly welcome the fact that the amendments adopted by myself and my epp colleagues will allow €47.5 billion to be used for investments in health products and services, including cross-border health services and care homes, for infrastructure to provide basic services, for people living in rural, border, less developed island, mountain and sparsely populated regions, and in particular to foster stronger cooperation and coordination in health through the construction and development of centres of excellence specialised in the development of specific interventions for new health needs. finally, i welcome the european union's co-financing rate of up to 100 per cent, because it is precisely this solidarity that underpins the european union and guarantees that aid reaches those who need it most.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation we are discussing today is intended to define what part of the cake will be left to olaf, the european anti-fraud office, after the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. it also seeks to remedy the sometimes serious dysfunctions observed in recent years in the operation of olaf. those who are most attentive will remember that the main actors in the fight against fraud in the european union have not spared their criticism of the office, whether it be the european commission, our parliament in its various discharges, the european court of auditors or the supervisory committee of olaf. while olaf is supposed to carry out its investigations in complete independence, the court of auditors has not failed to remind us, for example, that the european commission is responsible for the professional promotion of its staff. it's a strange independence, really in an excellent report, the french parliament had also concluded that the office could in no way claim to meet the strict criteria required of an independent administrative authority. i will spare you the names of birds exchanged between the office and its monitoring committee in recent years. the office's lack of consideration for its supervisory committee bodes ill for the future relationship between olaf and the european data protection supervisor. it is promised, sworn, spit: olaf will stop making illegal wiretaps as in the case of the investigation against commissioner dalli, which led to the removal to correctional in belgium of its former director. no more secret night raids on the offices of certain members without their knowledge. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, while clearly demonstrating a renunciation of the sovereignty of national states, is also presented to us as an important improvement in the rights of defence for the persons concerned. nothing is less certain in view of the totally disproportionate prerogatives granted to the future office: recognition of anonymous denunciations, possibility for the office, outside any preliminary investigation or any judicial information, to access the private telephone lines and bank accounts of agents and elected representatives, actors of the union - which disgusted the highly respected mrs grässle, former chair of the committee on budgetary control. where's the rule of law? before we teach poland, hungary, the whole world, let's start by sweeping our front door! some states refuse to go through the european public prosecutor's office. the citizens of these countries will have fewer rights, in defiance of the union's fundamental values. we're looking at some big legal battles.
i'm opening the first votes of the day. we shall vote on the items on today's agenda and the vote will be taken at 9.45 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous votes and all votes are cast by roll-call. so i declare the first ballots to be in order. you can vote until 11:00. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by marian-jean marinescu (a90263/2020) on the recommendation of the committee on budgets for second reading on olaf's cooperation with the eppo and the effectiveness of its investigations (10008/1/2020 c90393/2020 2018/0170 ((cod)).
madam president, when we talk about this regulation today, we are actually talking about the division of labour between olaf and the european public prosecutor's office, or eppo. so far in many european countries, for example in croatia, bulgaria, the money has gone to save the political regime that is ruling there and there is no effective control, nor was there. we can only hope that this time will be different. in croatia, for example, this is seen in the research and development competitions. the criteria for awarding money is pure luck or the fastest-finger method. it's not about quality, it's not about ranking, it's about whoever presses enter first gets the development money. it doesn't matter if you have patents, if you brought them, it's all about "mommy, yes, i have, i'll bring one one day". and that's how it's awarded. this creates a murky water in which those close to politics and government swim very well. the way the prosecutor is chosen is very important here. he will be chosen from croatian cadres, will be integrated into uskok, cases will be filed, indictments before our courts, the county court in zagreb and money will be hard to pay. we can only hope and believe in the moral integrity of laura kovec because we will return to the croatian judicial cadre as in the case of the european court of human rights in strasbourg, i'm afraid.
...crimes against humanity, cultural genocide, concentration camps, forced sterilization, forced labor in many economic sectors, including cotton. so, yes, the icc. yes, sanctions against the chinese leaders involved. of course, the embargo on all companies and products from xinjiang. but a few hundred metres from the european parliament in brussels, we are currently negotiating an investment agreement with china, as if all this dramatic reality, as if all the values of the european union, weighed nothing against business, against chinese investment in our economy and european investment in china. in the name of european values, in the name of the fight against these genocides, in the name of democratic values, in the name of fundamental freedoms, i call on european leaders, i call on emmanuel macron for france, to suspend all negotiations with china as long as absolute violence, as long as repression, as long as the camps persist in xinjiang and in other regions where minorities are mistreated, repressed, tortured. so, emmanuel macron, like all the european leaders, stop the massacre, stop the negotiations with china until the fundamental freedoms are properly implemented.
your honor, human rights and china are like croatian justice and law. in china, ethnic, political and religious minorities are systematically persecuted. besides forced labor, confinement to concentration camps, torture, perhaps the worst is forced organ harvesting, sometimes live. one of the groups, or minorities, that are most exposed to forced organ harvesting is falun dafa or falun gong because they are generally very healthy people, both mentally and physically. and the persecution has been going on since 1999 when they fell out of favor with the chinese communist party. why is this done? to eliminate a political enemy, to profit from trade, and to provide support for china's health system. data shows that two-thirds of all transplant tourists go to china to get an organ. organs in china wait weeks or even days, while in europe it takes years. it turns out that the chinese communist party not only knows about this, but it's directly benefiting from it all. there's even a list of european institutions and american companies that are tied into this and making money off of this. and all this will continue because europe is afraid of china's economic power.
madam president, we should go back to the beginning here, why the united kingdom left the european union in the first place. because they are disappointed in the functioning of this organization and they are not the only ones who are disappointed in the functioning of the european union. in croatia, when citizens see the way money from european funds is spent they are also shocked and disbelieving and embrace them with disappointment. they are disappointed when they see the way in which tenders for european funds are conducted. i'll mention, for example, one of the many projects, it's the babin gora waste management project. inside, in these contests, you have these old methods of prescribing the exact size, color or certain properties of something you're acquiring to narrow the circle of eligible, so that someone there who's predestined wins that contest. there are other filters that exclude domestic companies. in croatia, especially in the economy, it is not uncommon for money to be distributed on the principle of the fastest finger rather than on the principle of quality. all this without any effective control of the european funds. instead of being a means of development, funds have become a means of environmental and social devastation. if this organization doesn't get its act together, brexit will be just the beginning.
