madam president, members of the house of representatives. the initiative to standardise mobile chargers has been on the agenda for more than ten years, but has so far not produced any results. i welcome the fact that we are debating this very important subject, which is in the interest of both consumers and the environment, at the first plenary session of the year. i think consumer costs would be reduced if the single charger was not just for mobile phones, but also for tablets, e-readers and other portable devices. i also think it is important that consumers are free to decide whether to buy a new charger for their new device. this can only be achieved if the introduction of the single charger is accompanied by the end of the sale of the device and the charger together. finally, i would like to stress that the new provision would also be beneficial from the point of view of environmental protection, since it would also significantly reduce the amount of electrical waste.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are at the beginning of a new year, a new decade, a new presidency. it's called "every beginning has a magic". every start is also accompanied by high expectations, and especially in the direction of the croatian presidency, expectations are very, very high. we are very, very pleased with the programme you have just presented, mr president-in-office, that you are also taking up the great challenges and the great questions with courage. i would like to return to the subject of migration. we've been working on joint solutions here in the european union since 2015, and i can tell you this: many events are taking place at the beginning of the year in my region of bavaria. people have high expectations that we will solve the migration issue together here at the european level, that we will get the situation under control. please work to ensure that under your presidency we succeed in making the breakthrough, that we reach common asylum rules, that the member states also take responsibility for the great challenge of migration. we need a combination of secure european external borders, orderly migration and tackling the causes of flight. i am glad that you have also responded to the first comments made by my colleagues on the schengen issue and the question of migration. the situation is still critical when i hear only from my greek colleagues what the situation is like on the greek islands. so please, with all the other challenges, the mfr and the green deal and many others, have been addressed. the issue of migration is still burning and i really ask you to continue to work on solutions, particularly among the member states, with full concentration during your presidency of the council.
madam president, prime minister, it is very good to see you in this house again. the crisis in libya and the escalation of the conflict between the us and iran underline how the strengthening of our role in the neighbourhood and beyond are more crucial than ever. we must back our calls for diplomacy and multilateralism with clear commitments, and this is why we welcome the croatian presidency’s commitment to a strong europe in a world of challenges. but prime minister, being a global player, as you know, is not possible if the eu fails to deliver on its commitments, and this is even more crucial for our closest partners: the western balkans. we must guarantee the credibility of the process and open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania in march, before the zagreb summit. finally, our union cannot be strong if we allow our democracies to fail. poland and hungary require firm and unified action by the council, and so does the threat to disinformation and election interference posed to our democratic systems. on all these issues, my group stands ready to work with this presidency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is absent from the libyan crisis and from the crisis between iran and the united states, it is an oasis. we are an economic giant but a political dwarf. mr plenković, if we want a stronger europe on the international scene, a europe which plays the role of a factor for peace, with political and diplomatic solutions, many things must change. your presidency will not be judged by the fine words you speak. it will be judged by the result at the end of the semester. will you be able to help to get the new multiannual budget adopted on the basis of the european parliament's proposals, so that we do not have cuts in cohesion funds or funds for regional development or innovation? will you help to launch accession negotiations for north macedonia and albania in march? will you be able to approve the package of reforms to asylum policies which parliament and the commission have been preparing for two years and which has been blocked in the council? that's how you'll be judged.
madam president, i wish good morning to ms von der leyen and welcome mr plenković back to the european parliament. mr plenković, we listened very carefully to your priorities and we endorse your ambitions for there to be a stronger connection to promote the role of the european islands in the clean energy transition. i would really appreciate a general major focus on the mediterranean islands during this presidency. you previously mentioned the importance of encouraging digitalisation, investment in research and innovation, with the development of new skills adjusted to jobs. this is one of the most important challenges and opportunities for us in this new green era and in this context, speaking of the green era and therefore of the european green deal, why are we not pushing for a real exclusion of green investment from fiscal constraints? we all know, of course, that setting ambitious targets is only part of the job. the real job is transforming those targets into concrete and effective measures that start to change life for european citizens right now. good luck with your first ever presidency.
madam president, i will speak about enlargement because i am truly happy that the council president put this topic so high on the agenda. the task is enormous and twofold. first, you need to convince the opposing member states with a new, fresh approach. second, you need to rebuild the trust in the western balkan candidate countries that joining the eu is not just a distant carrot on a very, very long stick. in all of these countries, the public polls show that a huge majority of the people are staunch supporters of eu integration. people love and support the european idea, in spite of the fact that recently the eu behaved like a mean stepmother. hopefully, with the new commission and with you in the council, this will change. the hungarian delegation of the epp is ready to help you as much as possible because hungary, and we hungarians, we want a stable and prosperous neighbourhood with the new eu member states as soon as possible. because i am convinced that without them europe cannot become strong enough to bear the pressure of global politics. so all our eyes are on you now, mr president.
madam president, i welcome the prime minister to the parliament once again and wish him good luck for the presidency. i want to start with praise because of your strategy on the connectivity of the european union. this is of crucial importance – i think this is clear. we still have areas and regions in the european union with a limited connection or even no connection to the internet. we have the situation that this is affecting, in particular, rural areas and regions suffering from depopulation. european citizens should benefit from safe and accessible digital infrastructure and 5g is not just a buzzword. i think 5g is the basis for applications and, in particular, business models in transport, health and energy, and so the current patchwork that we have for the moment in the european union is not acceptable. therefore, ms von der leyen, i want to look into your side as well. we have to do something in order to prevent and to avoid this patchwork in the european union and we have to design a strategic and united approach to roll out 5g, an approach which leaves nobody behind and which avoids a race to the bottom when it comes to labour and social standards. once again, good luck and thank you very much.
madam president, dear croatian friends, we often say that the eu is at a crossroads and now is your chance to decide which road we collectively take. as you take on this massive role at such a crucial time, your decision could not be more important. the climate crisis, burning inequalities, brexit, our long-term budget and also the growing problems with the rule of law in certain countries are all issues that have long-term consequences for our european family. i urge the croatian presidency not to underestimate the importance of the ongoing rule of law procedures, because it’s not about poland or hungary, it’s about us as a community and whether we, as the european union, have the self-respect to do something when our rules and values are being neglected. i wish and i hope that you will give us back our self-respect because right now, very often, it is painfully missing. i hope you have the courage and confidence to act as a true champion of the rule of law and also progress with the article 7 procedure that has been deliberately halted in the past. please use this unique opportunity to lead by example and to leave a legacy that we can all build upon in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the subject of the green deal at the level of the national budget, because we have heard several times from both the european commission and the ecb about the fiscal space that is allowed to governments, and this means that there are governments, those with a low public debt-to-gdp ratio, that can make investments, while those governments with a higher debt-to-gdp ratio cannot make investments, much less green investments. this is a big macroeconomic nonsense: first, because all countries must contribute to eliminating their emissions. secondly, because it is precisely those countries which are in the most difficult economic situation that need to invest in this direction and their investment multipliers are most effective. if we invest one point of gdp in these countries, we get the effect of three points of gdp on their economies and therefore on their ability to cut emissions. our solution is to uncouple green investment from budgetary constraints, in the expectation and hope that we will eliminate budgetary constraints and the whole policy of austerity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union has set itself ambitious climate targets. but these climate goals are not going to happen by themselves, they require a lot of investment, and that money has to come from somewhere. it is therefore right that the commission has put forward a proposal today and is considering this issue. the sustainable investment plan is not the first investment plan we have discussed in this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to mention three key words very briefly: first, we have to make sure that there is a balanced distribution. we have seen that in the juncker fund money has been disproportionately directed to the most resourceful applicants. secondly, we must be mindful of additionality. we do not need to redefine or redefine investment, but we need to trigger additional investment. it is no use if a lot of projects end up with the label 'sustainable investment' so that the commission can meet its target, but we have not done more. and the third, which is also very important to me, is that the private sector is making a difference. it's also about being so attractive that private investors are willing to jump in. and that is what we as a parliament want to ensure in legislation.
madam president, if there is one thing we have to make absolutely clear about a just transition fund is that citizens need to be in the centre of it, not governments: not large and polluting companies, but ordinary people. we have to ensure that a just transition reaches the poorest and neediest regions of europe. we need to concentrate funds where eu assistance means a difference between being warm and freezing to death during winter. solidarity has to be in the heart of a just transition process. there is, however, one thing that i am not a fan of and that is corrupted and greedy governments. some eu member states will see this new fund as another opportunity to rob beneficiaries of eu money while enriching a small circle of loyal cronies. we cannot repeat the mistakes of managing the cohesion fund. a just transition fund has to operate in the most transparent way, equipped with the right tools to prevent mismanagement of money. solidarity and transparency must guide the implementation process. turning a climate emergency into climate neutrality won’t be easy, but with the right tools it can just be made possible.
mr president i welcome the decision of the european council in december to make the eu climate neutral by 2050. however, it is necessary to be prepared that this transition will entail significant economic and social changes with high costs and investment requirements. support should be given to lower-income member states, in particular the least developed regions and sectors where the transition will lead to job losses. the transition fund should be set up in a fair manner so as not to increase energy and food prices as a result. no member state or region should be left behind. the conditions for a socially just transition must be created. i would like to stress that the creation of a fair transition fund should not be based on the support of traditional eu policies such as the cohesion fund or the common agricultural policy. it should be built up from financial resources outside the multiannual budgetary framework of the union, from fresh money. finally, i would point out that the scope of the aid cannot be limited to member states where the extraction of coal is a major problem.
madam president, distinguished colleagues. we have a very good report on the csdp, thanks to mr danjean. and as a result of the joint work of parliament's political groups, a truly excellent material was produced. as shadow rapporteur, i think we have struck a balance, because i believe that the report includes elements that are important for all european democracies, such as the need to implement qualified majority voting and the strengthening of the role of parliament. furthermore, the whole report emphasises the need and the intention to achieve deeper integration. we consider them to be so important because we believe in the idea of a united states of europe, a strong europe, and that we can only respond effectively to security and defence challenges by responding unitedly and swiftly. only a strong and united europe can act against increasingly aggressive populism and cyber-attacks and disinformation campaigns. with this report, i feel we're one step closer to not only achieving our goals, but our dreams. so i ask you to support this report.
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs montserrat, i think you should respect the rules that this parliament has adopted. and you should know that there is a directive that prevents public officials, especially if they are members of that parliament, from attacking the presumption of innocence. exactly what dooms do you mean? what trial are you referring to? what crimes do you mean i have committed to make such a statement in this house? that said, i think states should follow the law, yes. and the spanish state is the first state in the european union, the first, to receive sanctions for not complying with european laws.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing to do to protect europe's interests is to return to politics. the real great reform is to have a europe which is able to meet the great challenges, both internal and external. we need a different geopolitical balance, we need a europe with a single foreign policy, with a single defence policy. we have seen the weakness of europe in the middle east crisis, in the libyan crisis, the absence of europe in the great crisis in venezuela and south america. there is a chinese offensive to which europe has a duty to respond. strong and coherent action is therefore needed. strong and cohesive action does not mean giving up national identities, giving up national states, nor must europe be the pretext for destroying national unity. there are no small countries, there are countries and as such they must be defended and developed in the context of a politically stronger europe. i do not believe that the problem can be solved by illegitimate referendums, i do not believe that the problem of european unity can be solved by a kind of non-representative democracy which goes against the will of the people, that is, the people who have chosen their elected representatives. that is why i believe that the role of the european parliament must be strengthened, that it must finally be given the power of legislative initiative as is the case in all parliaments in the world. we must also give voice to the citizens in this conference, but we must also give voice to the elected representatives, including the mayors and the regional presidents who sit on the european committee of the regions.
madam president, the conference on the future of europe is a good opportunity for citizens to reconnect with the european project, but three conditions must be met. first, it must be a truly open and participatory debate, where all citizens and representative organisations of civil society can make their voices heard. secondly, it must be a debate centred on the real expectations of citizens and aimed at building viable political commitments. we have nothing to gain from institutional squabbles, from a confrontation of sterile utopias or an anarchic debate where everything is discussed and nothing is decided. thirdly, we need a conclusive debate, which will enable the democratically legitimised european institutions to take decisions and take concrete steps in the right direction towards a fairer europe, a more democratic europe and a europe that offers more prosperity to its citizens.
blue-card question. – mr boeselager, you mentioned that we need a strongly worded resolution on this topic, i completely agree, but just let me remind this house of a later debate we are having about a very strongly worded resolution on hungary and poland. this house voted on this and nothing is happening so far. how can we guarantee that this resolution we are voting on will not lead to a similar talking shop, that we can finally achieve results and that this parliament actually stands up for what has been voted on?
madam president, let us be brave. let us talk bravely. let us start building the united states of europe. (applause) europe has achieved a lot in the past decades, but it’s not enough. the world is changing, so europe must change too. the threats, the challenges, became global, so the european union has to become a global player. i do understand that changing – especially changing ourselves – is always frightening, but i would say that fear is a bad advisor. so that’s why i say: let us start to build a stronger, more federal and more democratic europe. i call for an alliance of the brave. let us build a united states of europe, and i promise that the next generation are going to be proud of us in exactly the same way as we are proud of the founding fathers of the union. (applause)
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the conference on the future of the european union is an opportunity for the european union to take steps to restore the shattered confidence and thus give new impetus to the construction of europe. participatory democracy is important, but let's be careful not to impose ideological views on each other. so let's be careful that ideological missionaries don't take over the conference. we must be concerned with both tradition and renewal. we must not forget the preservation of the spirit of the founding fathers and of christian democracy, but we must also seek answers to new questions such as the definition of the european way of life. european identity can only be built by recognising and respecting the identities of the member states. the conference can only succeed if we accept that the european union is a community of values and interests, with pillars that arch from the bottom up and a motto: unity in diversity. that is why the idea of a united states of europe is unacceptable.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am proud that the european parliament has taken a stand on the issue of developments in hungary; that we have taken a stand for the rule of law, for democracy and for human rights. under fidesz's rule, we have seen how media freedom has been restricted. we see the persecution of ngos and civil society and the attack on academic freedom - it's the first time a university has had to be relocated. we see the government attacking the rights of migrants and banning homelessness and cultural institutions being taken over and re-established. we are also seeing how the freedom of the courts is being restricted by the new law that came into force this year. i also think it is worth mentioning the ny times investigation which shows that hungary's use of eu agricultural aid is rife with corruption and profiteering oligarchs, and is being used by fidesz to strengthen the party's power. you might ask, what's the goal? well, let's get this straight. it is to stifle any form of opposition, to stifle the involvement of citizens, and this is, as has been said here before, a completely unacceptable development. that cannot be called democracy and it cannot be called respect for the rule of law. there are many citizens in hungary who want a different development. those who stand up for human rights, for migrants' rights, for the rights of the homeless, for women's rights, for lgbtq people and for democracy and the rule of law. and with all of them, we fight side by side. but this is also a european issue. will hungary, as a non-functioning democracy, sit down and make laws for the rest of us in the council, laws that will apply in our individual countries? no, we can't have it that way. we are grateful that the finnish presidency has taken up the article 7 procedure against hungary. but as in the case of poland, it is not moving forward. on the contrary, it is moving in the wrong direction. we want to see the commission do more. we also want to see an effective mechanism for monitoring the rule of law, and not least now that we are negotiating the multiannual financial framework, we are going to have to make the tough demands. not a single euro should go to those who do not respect democracy and human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, among the common values on which the european union is founded, the rule of law is the bulwark of respect for civil liberties and fundamental rights in a context of separation and limitation of public powers. a government that attempts to preserve and strengthen its power by undermining the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression or academic freedom cannot hide behind the justification of having been democratically elected. when this happens, it is not only citizens who suffer, their rights are curtailed: the credibility of national and european institutions and confidence in cooperation between states to achieve common objectives are also being eroded. the commission has been working on the issue for years, and it is clear that the procedure under article 7 is far from being an effective remedy. the difficulties in obtaining the required majorities for the adoption of sanctions make this procedure essentially ineffective and unsuitable for the purpose for which it is intended. the orbán government knows this too, so confident of its impunity that it continues its authoritarian drift. as has been repeatedly called for, i therefore hope that an impartial european mechanism will be set up which, on the basis of objective indicators, will be able to offer effective and appropriate monitoring and intervention arrangements for each country, both for the prevention of serious breaches of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights and for the application of effective sanctions when breaches have already been established.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i am deeply sorry that the debate on hungary has become a permanent item on the agenda of the european parliament. not only because, from a procedural point of view, parliament would have no role in the article 7 procedure, but also because the whole debate is not about real facts but about a political witch hunt. parliament is an independent co-legislator. i do not see how we can question the independence of the council in this way. they make accusations, but hardly anyone wants to know the facts. the accusers are not interested in the fact that the hungarian constitution guarantees the institution of judicial independence. they don't care that we have a zero tolerance policy against corruption in hungary. he doesn't care that hungary gave the eu its roma strategy. he doesn't care that most of the members of this house are informed by the left-wing media. from the left-wing media that the government has supposedly disabled. they don't care about the 160 pages of legal facts compiled by the government. we are in the midst of another debate on a decision which is contrary to the letter and spirit of the eu treaty. aggressive political attacks are not the way to settle a legal dispute. we learned that under communism. thank you, sir. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – dear colleague, first of all, a small correction. we’re not actually having a debate on hungary; we’re having a debate on the attitude of the hungarian government, which is not the same. the title is very precise. i was referring to the statement by a colleague. i have a question, though, if you’ll allow me. you keep repeating the same thing, saying that we are making allegations. dear colleague szájer, can i ask my question? can i? you keep repeating the same allegation, namely that we are informed by the left-wing media. i’m not really sure what left-wing media are, but never mind. do you include in the left-wing media three successive epp-led european commissions? the venice commission? the oecd? need i go on? they’re all independent institutions – they’re not left-wing or right-wing – if anything, they are indeed epp-controlled – the council, the european parliament, in the majority – left-wing, right-wing, part of your group: where are the left-wing media you’re referring to?
blue-card answer. – only about five ngos have been giving you information. i know this because i worked with you on the sargentini report. that’s why you took out the roma parts from it, because you realised that it was all lies. these media are giving you wrong information. i invite you all to come to hungary and see it with your own eyes.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. as we have heard from several of our colleagues, the hungarian government has been stealing eu funds for a decade, destroying the unity of the european union and undermining the rule of law. the eu has not taken any real steps to stop this. he then passes on eu funds, which they then use to enrich themselves and build their power, instead of schools, hospitals and jobs. the procedure we are talking about has so far failed to pacify the hungarian government, and viktor orbán even considers any unconsequential action by the eu to be encouraging. anyone who has been paying attention to hungary knows that since we started debating the procedure, at least one more sargentini report has been destroyed in my country, and it's not just about the rule of law. they're so used to the lack of consequences that the prime minister is no longer afraid to make racist comments about hungarian gypsies. it will not, he says, and he can say that as long as the performance of the eu leadership shows otherwise. they are finally confronting european values while we are holding our fourth debate here, without the european council of heads of state having made any substantive contribution to the proceedings against the hungarian government. it is not the severity of the punishment, but the inevitability of it, that would be the deterrent. i'm asking you to do something about this. thank you, sir. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
as we've heard from so many of you, the table is full of facts. we know exactly what's going on from various reports. you can come to hungary, you can feel what's happening on your own skin. it is impossible to separate what is the facts and what is the policy, because the hungarian government does nothing but over-politicize the issue, and points to different laws from different member states, that it exists here and there, but in the whole, from which a system was built in hungary, it does not exist anywhere. the rule of law is being gradually dismantled, and you have to really live in it to feel that freedom is getting smaller and smaller. sorry, it is politics as long as the two-thirds majority is maintained, it cannot be a non-political decision, ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
blue-card answer. – mr biedroń, it’s not my job to solve your dilemmas. you can do that yourself, i think. we are discussing this in our group, we are discussing this in our family, and we will discuss this in the future. this is all that i have to say to you about it. you take care of your group. good luck with your maltese colleagues. we will discuss it in our group.
mr president, it was almost one and a half years ago when the european parliament asked the eu member states to launch the article 7 procedure against the hungarian government, and all we have seen since then is one and a half years of hesitations in the council, pushing the hot potato from one presidency to the other. prime minister orbán is not hesitating. he continues to undermine judicial independence, to destroy media pluralism and to incite xenophobic sentiments, and as a european union, we let him do it. the council continues to block progress on article 7. i urge the croatian presidency to take the article 7 process forward seriously and make it a strong priority. and colleagues, i wonder whether the fidesz delegation, by the next plenary, will be sitting at the far right where they actually belong. sokan, sokan magyarországon hisznek még demokráciában, hisznek még az európai unióban, és mi mellettük állunk.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. thank you so much for the word. my fellow members of the house of representatives! first, let us look at why the issue of hungary and poland is on the agenda for now - for reasons that are not entirely clear. because the left-wing factions have made it a condition for the murder of a maltese journalist to be discussed here in december. the malta murder led to the socialist prime minister, but shamefully, the european left only agreed to discuss it if hungary and poland were on the agenda in january. the charges against hungary are false. the judiciary, the scientific and educational worlds are free and independent in hungary. freedom of speech is alive and well, and the press is distinctly diverse. it must be said clearly: hungary has a political debate with the left-liberal forces. this political debate is about the future of europe, about the sovereignty of nation states, about immigration and about protecting european christian culture. and the left abuses the rule of law when it wants to punish those who take a different view in a political debate with legal proceedings. thank you very much. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
thank you very much. what a rare moment for a fidesz politician to take the floor. in hungary, it hasn't worked since you took over. i have a very simple question for you: if viktor orbán and fidesz think that everything is fine in hungary with the rule of law, then why are they so opposed to tie eu money to rule of law guarantees? don't you think that's a little like a confession? thank you very much.
blue-card question. – mr jaki, i know you are really good – like your hungarian friends – on pinpointing other member states, but let’s get back to the polish issue. today, as you are well aware because you were there, the polish judges presented in parliament the changes to the polish court system. elements of these are against eu law, as confirmed by the european court of justice – such as the disciplinary courts. my question is this: what public consultation preceded the adoption of the law? according to the judges, there was none. will your government amend the law according to the european court of justice decision, or will you follow your hungarian government friends and ignore the court’s decision, like always?
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. every day we have seen the tragic events, the losses our planet has suffered in the australian bushfires. in addition to human tragedy and casualties, it is said that about a billion animals died in the fire. and drastically diminishing habitats may even lead to the extinction of new species. and the disaster has an impact on the entire world. the smoke from the brush fire has covered the entire earth. in new zealand, it has darkened the snow covering the mountains, and the atmosphere may be affected all over the planet. this should be a warning to us europeans. wherever the world is suffering from the ravages of climate change, we can all be affected, including europeans. it could be a threat to our lives and the survival of the european species. only in australia... (the speaker withdrew from the house) is a species in danger of extinction. it is our responsibility to prevent and preserve the biodiversity of our planet. our diversity is a value that we must protect at all costs.
and we would like to thank you.
thank you very much. i'd like to point out that the blue card is a real question mark. the opinion may be expressed during the 'cathc the eye' period, where appropriate.
i'll close this discussion. the vote is coming up. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments until the vote at 11.43)
i adjourn the meeting until 3:00.
our citizens are concerned and have a right to know that everything is being done to protect their interests. you mentioned 132 people who lost their lives, over 6000 people infected. we do not want to cause panic but we must remain vigilant because the numbers are changing at a rapid pace. they mentioned four confirmed cases in france, four confirmed cases in germany and now also a case in finland. and this is a virus that is worrying the whole world and so yes we need common european measures for all countries in the european union to limit the spread of this virus. because our citizens, in whatever country of the european union they are, must be protected and feel safe, particularly if they are travelling. and we are asking you, commissioner, for urgent measures to identify and isolate infected patients and for any person travelling from an infected country to be followed for the necessary period even if they do not appear to have symptoms on arrival in our country. and i also appeal to the member states, because the member states should have information campaigns for their citizens.
well, if we as meps ever needed a reminder that we are dealing with matters of life and death, this is it. i’m a physician by training and there are three aspects i want to stress. europe needs to be calm, united and prepared, because in a crisis situation trust in our institutions is paramount, and i’m very worried to see the legitimate fears of the public being manipulated and geared towards hate-mongering. descending to xenophobia against chinese, europeans, visitors and immigrants leads absolutely nowhere. if there is an irresponsible way of dealing with a crisis, well, this is it. and this challenge highlights also how interdependent we are in europe, because pandemics know no borders and, unfortunately, there are great inequalities between the healthcare systems of our member states. we have to help each other. less developed regions need european help to take the necessary precautionary measures. if one member state is overburdened, that has an impact on every single member state. so a crisis like this makes it crystal clear that solidarity is in the interest of all of us.
mr. president and madam commissioner. in recent weeks, there have been very worrying reports of the spread of a coronavirus with severe pneumonia recently identified in china. i consider it of the utmost importance that member states have up-to-date and real information and that they follow the recommendations of the world health organisation and the eu's specialised agencies and take their decisions on precautions accordingly. as our airports are the gateway to europe for chinese passengers, in the event of any official action being ordered, our airports must have all the necessary facilities and equipment to meet the requirements applicable to them and to support the work of the authorities. i believe that protecting our citizens comes first. coordination is very important now, which is why i ask the european commission to keep analysing the situation and make the necessary proposals to the member states.
madam president, mr commissioner, i was glad to see in your work programme the implementation of the social pillar identified as a top priority. as we all know, the european union was founded on social solidarity based on economic cooperation. now there is a growing concern in member states of the periphery that benefits of the single market are severely uneven and that their single role in european cooperation is to serve as a source of cheap labour for old member states. the functioning of the single market is in danger. economic and social tension will only increase if we don’t face up to the challenges, and this will worsen with digitalisation, which you have identified as one of the mega trends of our times and of our era. the solution can only be a determined fight against wage differences and against geographical differences across the european union via a reformed cohesion policy based on social solidarity among member states. if we don’t deliver then incompetence will feed into anti-eu populism. the recommendation that you have made that through social dialogue we try to draw in civil society in finding a solution is a correct one, but please let me put forward one recommendation. you should also consult regional and local municipalities because they are the ones that are closest to our citizens, they should be consulted in the decision—making process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for your question. i think it is a valid point. the european union does have an instrument which is there to close the differences between the member states – it is called cohesion policy. my only problem is that cohesion policy is misused. much of the cohesion funds that are received by member states are either going to corruption channels or they are misused into projects which don’t help competitiveness. i think that the eu has a very important responsibility to oversee the management of the cohesion funds so that they go into research and development, into education, to improve the use of these funds, to improve the economies of these member states.
in writing. i welcome the commission's work plan, but i also think it is important to stress that the elements of the european green deal and the work programme should be designed so that no person or region is left behind in the green transition ahead. i welcome the proposals you have made so far to our citizens and businesses in the transition towards sustainable societies, but i believe that a truly equitable transition should not help the big polluters. the commission's programme has many ambitious elements, but there are also areas that have been less well thought out. a good example is the just transition fund, which unfortunately is too little detailed and well-supported. these shortcomings need to be addressed by the commission. the devil is in the details, and we will be watching closely to see that every decision the commission has taken puts the environment, climate and justice first.
madam president, i say to the commissioner: welcome to parliament and i would like to congratulate you on the new enlargement methodology just proposed. i was especially glad to see that you proposed on multiple occasions an objective criteria to evaluate the state of the rule of law in these accession countries. i am wondering, do you think this criteria could be used to evaluate existing member states as well? i know a lot of your colleagues in the commission are already working on this project, maybe you could be helpful on that? unfortunately, ms judit varga, the justice minister of hungary, dedicated an entire opinion piece on euronews to claim that there are no such objective criteria to evaluate the rule of law, but maybe if you have a talk with her, maybe you could convince her otherwise. i have two questions for you: in your opinion, what would happen if existing member states scored lower on the rule of law evaluation compared to candidate countries? also, do you have a proposition on how to safeguard the rule of law once member states have accessed the european union in order to prevent democratic backsliding?
mr president the digital single market creates new opportunities to boost the economy and improve the quality of life through artificial intelligence and, within that, automation. mobile and automated platforms are becoming more and more important due to the development of digital services. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. i think that consumers should be given adequate information about how to make a good decision without human intervention. to give just one example, it is increasingly the case that decisions in the medical, legal, or engineering fields are not made by professionals alone, but are made by automated means, without human intervention. ultimately, all consumers should be given the opportunity to have recourse to professionals to review the correctness of the decision. it is important to note that technological progress alone can never fully replace the human factor. the potential of the internal market is still not fully exploited and i believe that further measures are needed to ensure effective digitalisation by putting citizens, consumers and smes at the heart of the single market.
mr president, as the report quite rightly points out, the euro is more than just an economic and monetary instrument. it is a symbolic issue, hence a political project too. but if we want to see the euro as a global reserve currency and stand competition, then we have to deal with the root of the problem, and the root of the weaknesses that are mentioned in the report. the long-term stability of the euro as a currency depends on whether the european central bank can tackle the geographic differences and the structural nature of differences that persist between member states of the european union and that manifest themselves in extraordinary wage differences between old and new member states. these imbalances have a detrimental social effect, not only in growth and in competitiveness but in youth unemployment and in extreme labour migration across the european continent. as you quite rightly pointed out, ms lagarde, not only monetary instruments but fiscal instruments and cohesion policy must be taken into consideration and the fight against corruption must be taken on board to close the wage gap across the member states of the european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. (the president's speech begins with the microphone off) ... of course, gross nonsense, which my colleague here has just said, by hacking around on the left here. given that synagogues are again the targets of right-wing attacks, that heavily armed guards must be stationed to prevent this from happening, that jews are being attacked in the streets of europe, that there are parties in this house who call hitler's fascism the worst in history, it is high time to act. and action is not just about finding the right words at commemorations or at attacks. we must resolutely combat the spirit and actions of the new and old nazis - indeed of racists of all kinds - in the state, in society, on the streets, in the judiciary, in parliaments and in everyday life. it is also a clear rejection of the history-making in this house, because you cannot put fascism and communism in the same pot. we are committed to the truth, and so are you, who are sitting there. we owe it to the victims of fascism and racism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, phenomena such as anti-semitism, racism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance are a matter of great social concern in several member states. they feed on prejudice and hate, which are alarmingly prevalent both online and offline. protecting individuals and social groups from all forms of discrimination and violence on grounds of colour, religion, personal opinion or sexual orientation means not only ensuring the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, but also a more cohesive and inclusive society. the european union and the member states need to take initiatives and measures to prevent, educate and raise awareness, especially among young people, about hate crimes and hate speech. most of them are still not properly reported and prosecuted. several conduct remain unpunished, with serious repercussions on protection in support of victims. it is therefore in europe's general interest to reverse this trend.
mr president, vice-president jourová, this debate against anti-semitism, racism and hatred in europe is full of meaning. not because the eurobarometer indicates that discriminatory attitudes against individuals and entire categories of european citizens whose fundamental rights are protected by european law are increasing, but because hate crimes are increasing, because real violence against these individuals and entire categories is increasing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we adopted on 1 june 2007 our resolution on anti-semitism and our commitment to combating holocaust denial. but that is also why we have followed up on the decision adopted by the european council in december 2018 to provide the necessary instruments to act in a twofold field: that of education against hate, but also legislation against crimes that directly incite violence. and that is where the correct transposition of the 2008 framework decision comes into play and the need for the commission to have the support of the european parliament to provide all the necessary instruments. first, training of the competent authorities. secondly, the registration of hate crimes and, thirdly, the protection of the victims and the guarantee of the safety of those communities threatened in europe, not only the jewish community - of course - but also the roma community and anyone who uses hate speech as a scapegoat for attitudes of intolerance and contempt for others which cannot be tolerated because they are profoundly incompatible with european law.
mr president, recently, in hungary, an anti-roma governmental campaign has been launched. the prime minister approves of the segregation of roma children in the countryside, discourages the payment of compensation for the segregation of these children and enrages others by saying that roma people get this money without doing any work. hate speech and openly racist politics are on the rise in many eu countries. they have always been present in society, but in recent years they have been spreading instead of receding. populist and racist movements have a strong role in this as they build on people’s fear and designate scapegoats: others towards whom to channel negative emotions and fears generated by the changing world. if we don’t act now this can cause a domino effect, as extremists learn from each other. for example, with the spread of exclusionary law-making practices and propaganda methods. if we do not speak out and take decisive action now they will keep undermining eu values and principles which, like solidarity, respect of human dignity, human rights and non-discrimination will have no role to play in the future of europe. we must act now. (applause from certain quarters)
in writing. the illegal trade in pets is huge in the european union, does not stop at national borders and causes the death of many animals every year. in most cases, illegal trade in animals is said to lead to the breeding of domestic animals. breeders often separate puppies and kittens from their mothers at the age of up to four to five weeks and sell them from one member state to another without registration or vaccination. furthermore, businesses that breed dogs or cats for commercial purposes are taking unfair advantage of the union rules on the non-commercial movement of pet animals. in addition to the risks it poses to public health, animal welfare and consumer protection, such illegal trade in animals has also become a significant source of income for international organised crime. that is why the illegal trade in animals must be stopped immediately! but eliminating the phenomenon is a very difficult task. i believe that the only way to solve this longstanding problem is to introduce a regulation at eu level, which will save the lives of thousands of pets and ensure a better life for us. there is a need for tightening and introducing penalties.
madam president, i would also like to start off by expressing my regret that the president of the council is not present in this debate. i was extremely happy to see the priorities of the commission last year, especially the ones that were designed to improve european competitiveness through strengthening european solidarity via the social pillar. it would be a disastrous message if the adoption of the budget were to be delayed or if there were not sufficient funds to cover the implementation of the objectives. ms von der leyen said that it is extremely important to get the balance right between all the new priorities and all the new objectives. however, new objectives, especially the ones that seek to improve the eu’s positions in global competition, can only be achieved if the old objective of cohesion is completed. europe cannot function with economic and structural differences. they have to be eliminated or reduced. we cannot possibly look bravely into the future if a social and a wage gap exists between member states. therefore, we must strengthen our cohesion instruments and the epp ought to fight corruption.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of discussion in this house about gender equality and women's rights. but let's be honest and admit that there is no equality between men and women. we are actually allowing it to be degraded and humiliated. there is no equal treatment, there is no equal pay. in europe, prostitution is legal in many countries, and instead of fighting this social scourge, people prefer to turn the other way. in europe, slavery still exists for many women, who are considered commodities to be sold. in europe, women are killed and mutilated by men. we can impose rules, but they are only a palliative because they are based mostly on penalties for those who break them. we must train the new generations, and here i am addressing mothers: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to the question of the european parliament's right to vote in the european parliament.
madam president, we have finished the european equality strategy 2016-2019. we are now facing a new 2020-2024 strategy. it must be a priority for this parliament, the commission and the council to move forward with determination and a firm commitment to do what europe demands: equality for all citizens. it's a democratic issue. there is no democracy without equality. there is no prosperous and future society without human rights. equality is a human right and that is why we must combat the wage gap, the pension gap, and support the directive on pay transparency announced by the commissioner or the directive on reconciliation. there are still stereotypes that must be fought to achieve that true equality. there is also no equality in decision-making, which is why specific measures that are inclusive and accessible will have to be taken. there is gender violence - the latest statistics tell us that two out of three women have experienced violence. we need to talk about artificial intelligence for the issues of cyberbullying and, above all, we need to get this strategy to talk about disability and women. it has to have age indicators, disability indicators, female indicators. we shall thus have achieved what european values demand.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your active position in bringing forward a concrete gender equality strategy as soon as possible. i wish you the best of luck in getting that strategy adopted by the commission. but we have a very clear position on what needs to be reflected in it. my colleagues have already mentioned that we must first of all have concrete measures to combat violence against women, to implement the istanbul convention in the member states. how can we finally combat female poverty? how can we implement the directive on reconciliation of work and family life, which we adopted in the previous term of office? this requires specific measures and controls in the member states to ensure that they correctly transpose the provisions of the directive. finally, we really need to ensure that the pay and pension gap between women and men is not as bad as it is now. this requires concrete decisions. i wish you every success in making the strategy not just a paper document but a real reality in the european union.
(start of the speech off the microphone) ... this strategy of equality between men and women is very important and today it is more important than ever, when totalitarian ideologies emerge in europe that 'as they have always done', to destroy the rights of all, they start by attacking the rights and freedoms of women. the worst expression of inequality between men and women is violence, and the worst expression of gender violence is murder. the murder of women does not stop in europe. so we have to be clear: we are stuck in the istanbul convention and because of the six countries that refuse to ratify it. but they can't stop us. so, in this strategy we have to move forward. and we have to move forward on two fundamental elements. one is data - commissioner, it cannot be that we in the european union do not have data - that we know the figures of the reality of violence against women in the european union. we have limited data; we have data that are not homologous. so, according to article 11 of the istanbul convention, we have to move forward to have data that can be verified and tell us what the reality of the figures of violence is, in order to put an end to it. and so, along with the data, we have to give a name to this violence and the name of violence is called a crime, a crime that should be in the treaties of the european union. i am convinced that we will move forward on this path, and this parliament is your partner in that.
madam president, it is extremely good news that we will finally have a strategy. somebody said before that the last strategy came to an end in 2019, and i hope so, because there was no strategy at all in the last mandate. this was extremely shameful, and now we will change that. we will have one, and i hope this will be a truly feminist drive, which is what a lot of people are expecting in the streets i would also like to urge you to be extremely ambitious in different fields. in the socio—economic area, we are very much looking into the proposals for the tax transparency directive. this is going to be extremely important in the first weeks and months of our legislature. we need to continue working on violence; this stopping of the ratification of the istanbul convention is absolutely unacceptable. we have a lot of work to do together here. i would like also to urge you to focus on the mainstreaming of all the policies of the commission. this is extremely important. in the different consultations within the services of the different initiatives of the commission, we want a gender equality footprint there, and this is also your responsibility. so, commissioner, we stand behind you. let’s make this strategy something different and important for the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rita levi montalcini said: 'the european union is not a political force, but a political force.' "women have always had to fight twice. they've always had to carry two weights, the private and the social. women are the backbone of societies". in spite of this, we say, or because of this, there are many women in europe today who are not fully guaranteed their rights in an effective way. figures provided by the commission: in the last three years, the difference in the employment rate between men and women has remained at 11%, 78% for men and 66% for women. and there's still a 16% pay gap between men and women. not to mention violence against women. the social change that women need to see their rights fully guaranteed concerns all of us, women and men. if we men do not change our roles, whether in the public sphere and in the business world or in the family sphere, it will be impossible for women to get rid of the situations in which their rights are so often violated. change of roles, i say from personal experience. feminism is not a women's cause, it's a society-wide cause.
madam president! i think it's a shame that in the 21st century, women in europe and around the world are experiencing so much inequality. i am pleased, commissioner, that this subject is one of the european commission's major priorities. i believe that the strategy should take into account the needs and experiences of women from different backgrounds. i think of the women in rural and remote areas who have to face every day the difficulty of accessing day care, kindergarten, information, health care, and in old age, they have to face poverty. i think about the women who die of cancer because they're too late to get treatment because they're too late to get access to a specialist. i think of women who, despite having a better education, lose the battle for high-paying jobs or receive lower pay for the same job. i think about women who are experiencing hate, sexual violence and domestic violence because they have to face the challenges of economic independence. i think about the women with disabilities who have to face barriers every day. and i hope that we women in the european parliament, despite our many differences, will be able to speak with one voice on this important issue for millions of european union citizens.
madam president, i’m very glad to hear that the eu is working on a gender equality strategy: it’s very important for me. let me just highlight one aspect of this very broad and important topic – violence against women. when we talk about violence against women, we usually talk about numbers: one in every three european women, right? i would like to talk about people. (speaker holds up a photograph)for me, she is the face of violence against women. she is bernadett orosz, a very brave woman who was brutally assaulted in the privacy of her home by her ex-partner. afterwards, she was denied proper medical care, she was denied proper police protection, and later on, the justice minister of hungary repeatedly said that ratifying the istanbul convention is political hysteria. well, bernadett is a brave woman. she has been to the european parliament; she will be back. she’s advocating for protection of females, and i’d like to echo her voice. i’d like to call on the commission to act upon their promises and to add violence against women to the list of the eu crimes in the treaty and also for the european union to join the istanbul convention.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following is the commission statement on the better internet for children debate (2020/2547 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the commission statement on the coronavirus: a debate on ensuring fundamental rights and a coordinated european response (2020/2565 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, it is more apparent than ever that our greatest challenges, from the rise of antimicrobial resistance and the spread of communicable disease to the climate crisis, are collective ones. the coronavirus outbreak is clear evidence of this, and it highlights the urgent need for close collaboration and coordination across the eu and beyond. the european parliament is a crucial partner in these efforts, and i am glad to have an opportunity to discuss the eu’s response with you this evening. the commission has mobilised its services and agencies, notably the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecde), and is working on all fronts to support efforts to tackle the outbreak. this includes ongoing coordination with member states to share information, funding vaccine research and offering support through the eu civil protection mechanism. i will share some more specific examples of our efforts and some ideas for an improved response, but first i think it is important to salute the commitment of all frontline medical personnel, who are operating in very difficult circumstances. last week we expressed special condolences for the death of dr li wenliang, who was among the first to warn us about the coronavirus. a few words on the importance of cross—sectoral coordination at eu and member state level would be in order here. on 28 january, president von der leyen triggered the commission’s crisis coordination mechanism. my colleague commissioner lenarčič, in his role as the european emergency response coordinator, has convened meetings of the crisis coordination committee with the participation of all relevant services, from health, civil protection, through research to transport, but also development cooperation and communication, to name just a few. he repeatedly emphasised that this challenge requires a joined-up collective effort and using all the tools that we have at our disposal. relevant commission services and the european external action service are constantly assessing the situation and deciding on the actions needed for a swift and coordinated response. consular coordination and cooperation between eu member states is ongoing in order to address repatriation and other consular needs. thanks to the eu civil protection mechanism and on the initiative of some member states, such as france and germany, hundreds of eu citizens have been repatriated from hubei province. commissioner kyriakides has been in regular contact with the ministers of the member states where cases have been confirmed. under the cross—border health threat decision, the commission coordinates with member states through three key mechanisms: the early warning and response system, the health security committee, and the communicators’ network. effective cooperation is key to their success, and i assure you that these mechanisms are active, sharing information and building preparedness and mitigation strategies. at the same time, the commission has provided eur 10 million for research on the virus, and the eu-funded prepare project has been activated. this will launch clinical trials across a network of 3 000 hospitals and 900 laboratories in 42 countries. currently, member states are implementing a variety of measures at points of entry to the eu. however, we should work with member states to develop a common position on external borders in line with international recommendations, whilst protecting freedom of movement and the health security of all eu citizens. we also need to coordinate with key partners like the world health organization (who). the commission is planning to mobilise funding to support the who’s strategic preparedness and response plan in order to tackle the outbreak, to contain its spread and to foster research and investigation. capacity reinforcement is especially important in countries with already fragile health systems. access to personal protective equipment is a critical part of the wider response. the commission is looking at the needs of member states in this regard. in parallel, the commission is reviewing country capacity for quarantine and isolation. understandably, there are varying levels of capacity across member states, including around personal protective equipment. should eu transmission of the virus greatly expand, this may require cross—border solidarity and cooperation. it is important to contain the outbreak to reduce the risk of it spreading further. in addition to ensuring preparedness in the eu, we need to focus on assisting china. this helps the chinese, but it also decreases the risk for the rest of the world. the commission is working closely with china, both at technical and political levels. the eu has already provided 12 tonnes of protective equipment to china. this is a clear sign of our solidarity. we have been in contact with member states and private companies to identify stocks of protective personal equipment that go beyond eu needs and could be shared with china. yes, we need to make sure that stocks at national level are sufficient, but we also need to focus on where our support could have the greatest impact by tackling the outbreak at source. we are also looking into setting up a joint working group between eu and chinese experts on public health aspects of the virus, which regards the potential for indirect consequences of the outbreak. one issue of particular concern is the potential for xenophobia, both online and offline. discrimination against asians or persons perceived as asians or any other race or ethnicity is contrary to eu law. the commission will not tolerate any racial discrimination in whatever form it takes. the commission is in contact with the european medicines agency and networks of member state authorities to assess the situation of the active pharmaceutical ingredients (api) and of finished medicinal products available for the european pharma industry and the european market. so far, the outbreak is not affecting the availability of medicines in europe, but obviously we will remain vigilant. however, the outbreak highlights the need to examine the domestic production of apis and finished medicinal products. this is something that we are currently reflecting on, and it will form part of the pharmaceutical strategy to be launched later this year. the commission has mobilised all the assets at its disposal in order to meet this challenge inside and outside the european union. our success depends on rapid communication, information sharing, political will and close coordination. all of these efforts are underpinned by european solidarity with all eu citizens and with others who are vulnerable to this virus. i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on the eve of the meeting of the ministers of health tomorrow, i think it’s only fitting and thank the commissioner that we are discussing this subject tonight. and let’s be clear, there’s no need for panic in europe, but people are quite rightly looking towards their national authorities but also towards the eu for answers. i want to, first of all, compliment the european commission for their coordination efforts. i’ve seen previous outbreaks that were less coordinated but here, for example, the initiative taken for the coordinated approach about the repatriation of people deserves our compliments. but i also want to express a warning. ministers of health tomorrow will be very inclined to underline that health is a national competence, and they will be right, but people at the moment don’t want to talk about the lisbon treaty, they want to see solutions. and, therefore, for the epp, we expect a number of things: first of all a capacity check as to the preparedness of all member states and i honestly get a bit worried when i hear the commission say we might have to organise solidarity for the protective equipment in member states where they have less access. no, we need to do that, actually, now. we need this capacity check. we need a common approach on people entering from the region into the eu, a clear communication strategy that avoids conflicting advice, which we’ve seen between member states in the past, cooperate the vaccine – you’ve said enough about that – but also, that’s my last point, up—to—date data. how come, officially, we have data saying africa has zero cases? that either means they have zero cases, which i find highly unlikely given their contact with china, or they just don’t check and that would be a worrying thing for a neighbouring continent like the eu. therefore, we are, as the eu, as strong as our weakest link, and what the ministers need to do tomorrow is to make sure that there are no weak links at all.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, commissioner, for your important introduction to this debate. with 40,000 confirmed cases worldwide and more than 1,100 tragic deaths, we must take the coronavirus seriously. we should be well aware that the number of cases in europe has not been that high, but preparedness is important to manage and protect the population. the work of the world health organization to understand the outbreak and the impact of the virus is extremely important, as we do not yet know exactly how it spreads. that is why i am pleased that you mention the eu's efforts in research on the virus. i think that's very crucial. similarly, the work of various expert groups to identify the source of the outbreak is very important to ensure that we can prevent similar outbreaks in the future. we do not yet know whether we are doing enough, and unfortunately it is impossible to know until we have a better understanding of the virus, its origin and how it works. i call on the health ministers of the various eu member states to be vigilant and ready to deal with any new cases and to disseminate all information and help each other in this. measures to prevent infection are of the utmost importance and must be given priority, while the isolation of persons and quarantine, etc. must be carried out in a proportionate manner and not violate fundamental rights. we also need to ensure that the coronavirus does not contribute to the suspicion of people or lead to the spread of false information. all that said, it is good that the commission is on the move, that you, madam commissioner, are here today, that you are showing that you are very alert and that we are working together to spread all the knowledge we have, to invest in research and to ensure that we have the correct information to protect the citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, there is hardly a day that goes by without new breaking news about the coronavirus, and as we are more connected than ever the world is holding its breath anticipating the outbreak of a truly global pandemic. that’s the wrong approach, i think. this global attention has a very clear downside: deliberate misinformation; fake news; misleading reporting about the coronavirus are all around us. in hungary, two people were detained who were spreading fake news in social media about a disease reaching hundreds of thousands of people according to investigators. that’s nonsense. and other internationally wide-spread posts claimed that more than 60% of humanity will get infected in the near future. let’s face it. europe has not done much to address this issue of the spreading of fake news and hysteria. there is certainly of course a global crisis unfolding, nobody denies that, but in the face of the crisis, europe must remain calm and composed. this is why we should not ignore the rising misinformation campaigns that spread fearmongering and mistrust. a coordinated european response must include fact-checking and providing regular and credible information to our citizens. we must never forget that their trust is our most precious asset, and misinformation is sometimes even more contagious than the coronavirus.
the debate is adjourned. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the coronavirus is spreading spectacularly in europe. the number of sick and dying is increasing day by day. the spread of the virus is unpredictable, varies from country to country, from hour to hour. as we speak of the epidemic, new cases are being reported in many eu member states. we politicians have a responsibility to these people, and their lives and safety come first, so we have to act! in general, the sense of security of the citizens has been weakened and will only recover if we address this challenge correctly, if we contain the disease. the answer would be a vaccine, but unfortunately, we don't have one yet, but i'm hoping we will soon. i also want to emphasize the importance of having authentic, up-to-date information. in my country, hungary, the government has created a website and a 24-hour, free-of-charge call center. i think this is a good example of effective coordination. if the epidemic continues, further adverse processes may be initiated. prolonged uncertainty, a deterioration in business confidence, can reduce consumer and investment demand, leading to an economic downturn. it is therefore very important that we support our businesses and i ask the commission and the european investment bank to provide assistance to the sectors most affected by this emergency.
in writing. truly, we are living in unprecedented times that go back generations. we all see the enormous burden that the coronavirus pandemic is placing on all eu member states. not only does the health emergency require enormous efforts, but also the challenge of ensuring people's daily livelihoods and the survival of businesses poses a serious challenge to all of us. it's good to see we're not alone in this fight. the european union is doing its job and taking action. it will provide €37 billion of eu development funding to address the health and economic emergency. we support the idea that member states can use eu development aid to urgently strengthen health systems. we, the dac meps, will support any measure that provides real short-term help to small and medium-sized enterprises to survive the crisis. we also agree to extend the european solidarity fund to crises arising from public health threats and to increase the solidarity advance that can be granted in the event of such disasters. we know that we need everyone to overcome this crisis. the virus has paralysed many things, but the european union can demonstrate what solidarity can do in this emergency. europe is strong and does not let its citizens down. the health and financial security of our citizens is at stake, and it's not a small one. the virus that threatens them is global and unified. in defense, we must be more united than ever!
in writing. this amendment will allow us to mobilise eur 800 million from the eu solidarity fund to fight the coronavirus. as we have seen in the case of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, we can now see the solidarity of the eu come to life in the fight against the pandemic. the coronavirus knows no laws, no boundaries. the coronavirus has only one law, its own. he doesn't pick and choose. it infects the old and the young. only by working together, watching out for each other, supporting each other, can we defeat this epidemic. european solidarity is reflected in our everyday lives. we show solidarity with each other when we enforce curfews, restrictive measures. we show solidarity when we wash our hands, when we help the needy with their shopping, when we don't visit our grandparents. we show our solidarity when we applaud and sing our respects to the doctors, nurses and other health workers who have performed beyond human ability. and the european union is also showing solidarity when it helps the economies of the member states with subsidies and eu funds. when he mobilizes his budget to research a vaccine against the virus, when he tries to get protective equipment for health care workers. we all have a role to play in fighting this epidemic. together, we can defeat this epidemic!
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has fundamentally changed the daily lives of european citizens. of course, at this stage, the first and foremost priority is to protect human life, which means effective disease management and the highest possible level of health intervention. unfortunately, the coronavirus has proven to hit the european union's most vulnerable areas: healthcare systems, highly complex production chains optimized for low inventory levels, a booming global tourism industry, and hospitality, which is basically a consumer-driven economic model. the eu was late in taking action to protect this traditional model, and the slowness of coordination required a series of measures by the member states. what we can say for sure is that the european union will never be the same again. but even these extraordinary situations create extraordinary opportunities. economies that are able to adopt new development trends in times of crisis can gain a serious and lasting competitive advantage. my country, hungary has already taken the first important step, it has taken the primary measures to mitigate the negative effects of the epidemic. i hope that the delays in these measures at eu level will not be repeated, as there is a lot of work to be done by the eu institutions. i ask the commission to give priority to the short term as well as to the long-term development opportunities and to do everything possible to mitigate the impact of the crisis at eu level.
mr president, firstly, i would like to thank ms von der leyen and mr michel for their presence and thank them for their service and leadership in tackling this extraordinary challenge that we are facing. it is in times of crises that we are realising how limited and narrow the scope of our institutions actually is. both of you have addressed the issue of the future of the european union and the future depends on how we manage this crisis. unfortunately, the eu does not have a great track record in crisis management. unfortunately, the 2008 financial crisis continues to have long-lasting effects and the eu has made a mess of that. the repercussions are unbelievable and devastating, especially in the periphery of the eurozone. the migration issue was also mismanaged. crisis management at the time of migration was a disaster, with lasting effects even today. we can only hope that the management of the coronavirus will be different. mr michel, you referred to pressure from the citizens to reform our institutions, and you are quite right. in the wake of the crisis, reform of the institutions is necessary, because if no reforms are going to be made, european citizens will write the european union off and they will turn to solutions that appear simpler, clearer and more efficient. so, if the eu can’t learn to adapt, its adversaries will be very quick to point out the problems and to capitalise on them. the post-covid era must be built on cooperation, on the principle of solidarity – as we have heard so many times today – but also on subsidiarity, which entails dealing with issues at local level as much as possible. certainly there are issues where the nation states are better positioned to act efficiently and effectively, but more and more of our challenges require broader cooperation, which require action at regional, continental and global level. full institutional reform is inevitable, and whatever we do now, it has to prepare us for the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. a year earlier, i said that we should create a united states of europe, because europe and the world are facing global challenges that we can only solve together, in unity. it took a tragedy like this to make us realize that the global crisis doesn't stop at borders, it affects everyone. that is why we need common solutions, common crisis management. the pandemic has shown us where we need to work together more closely to help the citizens of the european union as quickly and as effectively as possible. it has also shown us the solidarity that member states can show and the enormous resources that the european union can mobilise to mitigate the health and economic damage. unfortunately, it has also become clear how some member states are abusing their power, how they are invoking the emergency. for example, in hungary, viktor orbán, under the law of delegation, as you know, is making decisions that have nothing to do with the emergency and the coronavirus. it denies that there are eu funds that want to remedy the crisis, while leaving hundreds of thousands of hungarian workers on the side of the road. all the lessons of the virus show us that we need a stronger, more united europe, able to protect its citizens from environmental, health and economic damage. but it can defend its member states even against its european enemies.
in writing. i thank the committee for its report and especially for its frank, sometimes self-critical words. i also hear the critical comments from the member states - i am not talking about the hungarian government, which always and everywhere criticises the european institutions as a reflex - and i must confess that i myself have more understanding of the commission. this is not only unprecedented for 460 million european citizens, but also for the commission. although the member states would sometimes be self-critical, as the president of the commission was today. however, the commission soon recovered from the initial uncertainty and put some excellent proposals on the table. it is not the commission's responsibility that it has no more serious responsibilities in the field of health in the face of such a global epidemic. all responsibility lies with the member states and it saddens me that some member states go against the recommendations and then blame their own failings on the european union. and it is already clear that it is not possible to effectively combat global epidemics by different methods in different member states. the main conclusion of this current dramatic situation is that we must join forces. we need to create a health union that puts the fight against major epidemics beyond individual and local diseases in the hands of the european union and creates the material and institutional conditions for this. this pandemic and the crisis show us more than anything how much we depend on each other. we are stronger together!
in writing. everything has changed. it's not just about gdp or economic growth anymore; it's about our lives and our lifestyles. we're putting a lot of energy into defeating this virus. for this reason, i am very sorry that my initiative to set up a special covid-19 committee, which was proposed by the hungarian people's party delegation and supported by the european people's party, was not finally included in the european parliament's motion for a joint resolution. i still think it would be important to have a more effective dialogue between the economic operators and the ep. it is essential that we can stimulate investment and job creation in the long term. and the debates on this should be held through a specific platform! in order to avoid permanent damage to our way of life, we need to learn to work together in the current situation and think about how we can defeat the coronavirus and shorten the duration of the economic downturn. although the extent of the damage is not yet clear, it is already clear that the negative effects will be long-lasting, and the ideological debate that some of my colleagues have had in recent weeks has unfortunately not advanced the common cause: the importance of effective and rapid protection. the european union should step up its efforts to provide the fastest and most effective assistance to countries in need.
in writing. in these days we have remembered the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration and the first steps towards european integration. but we must not forget that the declaration not only united but also divided the idea of europe from the beginning. it has sown the seeds of conflict between the idea of a europe of transnational inspiration, fusing nations, and the idea of a europe of strong and independent nations. seventy years of european unity, the age of the emergence of the federalist idea, is being hit by a series of crises. it lost a member state for the first time since the terrorist attacks and the immigration crisis. and in the midst of the current pandemic, it's facing the biggest shock in its history. the eu institutions have failed to recognise and anticipate crises. they were unprepared and by leaving the member states defenseless, they questioned the meaning of their existence. just as it did 70 years ago, europe needs renewal and fresh impetus, but above all, it needs a soul. if the idea of europe continues to be held captive by ideologies, the political and economic weight of the european nations will diminish in the new century. the millennial nations of europe do not need to be reborn. so instead of an increasingly self-serving unity, we need an alliance that makes our nations stronger and more competitive in the world. the anniversary and the conference on the future of europe are an opportunity for intellectual renewal.
mr president, orbán did not avail of the opportunity to speak up in this house, but i am equally disappointed that judit varga, minister for justice, was not given a chance to explain a law that is truly exceptional and a law one of a kind. no other law has been adopted without a time limit and by restricting freedom of expression. the fears of the hungarian opposition and of international critics were justified, as in the past two months viktor orbán has abused his powers in hungary. by decree, private businesses have been placed under state control, while orbán’s family and circle of friends received billions of state funding. opposition-led municipalities were deprived of their revenues, namely local business tax. opposition political parties, including opposition parties, have been stripped of their state finances and funding, and citizens have been recently arrested for expressing their opinion. orbán is not only a coward for not having come here to defend his law, but he is also an opportunist. he tramples on european values and builds his autocratic regime from european funds and from eu money, and will continue to do so while german business and other western investors find themselves comfortable in hungary and get preferential business treatment in hungary, and thereby i mean low wages, a flexible labour law, state benefits and low taxes. values versus profits, this is the dilemma. i think it is time for the european institutions to get their priorities right.
in writing. this is not the first time that we have had to discuss the activities of the hungarian government in this house. in ten years, i've had many opportunities. we need to talk about it now in the context of the authorization act. an act that gave the government absolute power over the pandemic. everyone can see the orbáns' hypocrisy, even though they try to convince everyone that there is nothing wrong with the hungarian rule of law. yes, there are, and let me give you some examples of what we call epidemic measures. the government has deprived municipalities of revenue, causing them to be in serious trouble in many places. many municipalities are preparing to lay off workers because they simply cannot manage their salaries. there's sports sponsorship, for example. it's impossible to understand how, while you're giving something to people who lose their jobs, you're spending billions on stadiums, on swimming pools. during the pandemic, thousands of people were stripped of their civil service status. and of course, during the emergency, it was important to screw the coalition government with the istanbul convention. tell me, what do these measures have to do with the management of the epidemic? i'm not worried. it's more about expanding the power of government, further eroding the rule of law.
in writing. – in response to the covid-19 pandemic, contact tracing and warning apps can be essential tools to support the gradual lifting of confinement measures. to that end, i warmly welcome the digital initiative of the european parliament, aiming to develop a common coordinated approach. whether the contract tracing app is a pan-european system or a decentralised approach, it should, in all circumstances, be reliable, safe and effective. before launching an app for broadcasting the ‘digital handshake’ of nearby phones, there should be clear guidelines on the protection of personal data and privacy. in particular, i firmly believe covid19-related health data should be encrypted, i.e. anonymised and solely shared with public health authorities; both are cornerstone for strengthening citizens’ trust in using eu-wide digital tools. furthermore, whereas ‘digital handshake’ remains decentralised, there should be one app per country - all of which are interoperable - to boost the effectiveness of tracing the circulation of the virus. in addition, the app should be dismantled as soon as they are no longer needed. finally, in my opinion, an unreasonably complex solution may hinder reaching our common aim, thus we should come up with a solution as simple as possible.
mr president, regardless of substance, it is quite appalling that the european union once again, in such a critical time, hammers out a deal behind closed doors. everyone that criticises the european union for a lack of transparency is quite right. and i think if the eu wants to appear democratic it had better start acting like it. i can only hope that, unlike the last merkel-macron deal back in june 2018 about the fiscal union, that this deal will fare much better. that one vanished into thin air, and we haven’t heard anything of it since its announcement and declaration. i can only hope that this package will deliver, but however, i have certain concerns. i am concerned that this eur 500-billion fund is not acting like a eurobond. it is not going to transfer debt from member states to the level of the european union. and it is only going to add to the unbearable debt level of certain member states, which will bring about austerity in the upcoming years, which will be crushing for these economies. also, i can only hope and seek that i will see guarantees in this recovery package that the funds don’t go to the big multinational companies and corporations, but to smes – small and medium-sized companies, which are the backbone of the european economy.
in writing. from a hungarian point of view, it is a success that the new recovery facility is not proposed to be set up at the expense of regional development programmes and the common agricultural policy. however, the previous criticisms of the mff by two thirds of member states, including hungary, were also justified in the light of the new proposal, which was almost unchanged from the previous proposals. hungary has achieved remarkable economic success in recent years and is also at the forefront of the management of the epidemic. it would be unjustified not to benefit from the recovery resources because we have managed the epidemic successfully and have reduced our public debt over the years through a disciplined fiscal policy. as in the case of cohesion policy, it is important for the recovery facility that the allocation of resources also takes into account differences in economic development between member states and the state of the economic sectors affected by the crisis. we cannot have poorer member states financing richer ones. the €750 billion in the recovery facility will be raised by the european commission through the use of long-term loans. the loan will be repaid by the member states over 30 years in proportion to their contributions to the eu's general budget. hungary has to repay eur 7.5 billion of the 750 billion debt at a rate of 1%. it is unacceptable that, in comparison with this debt, our country should receive a non-repayable aid of only €8.1 billion, which is just over the amount of that debt.
in writing. i agree with my colleagues that the launch of the conference on the future of europe is timely. since the economic crisis of 2008, the long 2010s have been a series of crises - economic, financial, migration, the increase in terrorist attacks and the current epidemic situation. europe, the european states, must become more resilient and more effective in managing crises. we must work to solve problems that benefit european nations and european citizens. the ideological principle of 'ever closer union' must not be allowed to limit thinking about the future of europe. european countries are currently facing a number of challenges. they must be competitive on the world market and provide security for their citizens. they will have to respond to the demographic challenge of ageing societies. they must say no to mass migration that denies the values of european culture. they have to rebuild their economies, which are destined to cooperate. we need a union that can help the nations of europe to do this. the conference provides a good framework for discussion, but it can only be effective if no one takes it for themselves. the free exchange of views requires that national parliaments be involved in this thinking. the national parliaments are the bearers of popular sovereignty on the one hand and the masters of the european treaties on the other, and without them there is no hope of a successful european vision.
in writing. after the coronavirus pandemic, the market value of many european companies has decreased, and their weakened liquidity situation may require investors. unfortunately, european technology companies have long been attractive investment targets for companies from non-eu countries, for example. interest in the far east has now been renewed. these companies also seem to be taking advantage of the situation due to the coronavirus pandemic, especially as they can access advanced technology. i believe that in order to be able to defend ourselves effectively, a coordinated european response is absolutely necessary and that member states should consider the introduction of anti-acquisition measures as an element of measures to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, taking into account local specificities. i am convinced that the action taken by the hungarian and polish governments has been the right one and that they are setting a good example. one of the objectives of the crisis management measures adopted by the two visegrad countries was to prevent foreign takeovers of strategic companies. eastern european policy-makers are thus increasingly concerned that state-backed companies from non-eu countries may gain too much influence over key companies and thus over sensitive infrastructure on the continent, while these same countries continue to protect their own economies from similar foreign investment. i urge the commission to monitor ambitious acquisition plans with due care and to take the necessary steps immediately to establish the necessary eu toolbox to eliminate the distortive effects of the internal market.
before we begin the vote, i would like to give the floor to mr vincze lóránt, who, pursuant to rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, wishes to make a statement on the report on the european citizens' initiative: provisional measures relating to the time limits for the collection, control and inspection phases in view of the covid-19 pandemic (2020/0099 ((cod)) , for the purpose of interinstitutional negotiations and in order to refer the matter back to the commission.
the request will be put to the vote after the final vote on the commission's proposal. the first round of voting is now open. the vote will take place from 9:00 a.m. to 10:15 a.m. the voting system is the same as yesterday. all votes will be by roll call and members can check their votes and the results of the votes in the document published on the plenary session website. the grounds for voting may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, only explanatory votes of up to 400 words are accepted. i now call the first round of voting. you can vote until 10:15. the results of the vote will be announced at 1:30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 9.04 a.m.)
the following point is attached to the commission statement on large-scale land acquisition and deforestation in the amazon (2020/2689 ((rsp)). i'm informing the house that there will be no "catch the eye" procedure and no "call the shots" questions at the end of this debate.
mr president, madam president of the commission, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. welcome to the house of european democracy. i'm glad you came. your programme is full of talk about digitisation and climate change. i think one thing is clear: without technology, there is no green deal. i think that transformation has great opportunities, and we have to look at those. the franco-german initiative gaia-x, for example, can finally give us the opportunity to break oligopolistic tendencies worldwide. i believe that our aim must also be to tackle global technological leadership, particularly in the field of hydrogen technology and in the field of the battery cell industry. the hydrogen strategy has been presented today - thank you very much, mrs von der leyen - and 10 billion euros are planned for it over the next 10 years. but the battery cell industry is also crucial and, maroš šefčovič is here with us, thank you very much, maroš, this is your baby, we know , but here too, in my view, we must seize the great opportunities. this european battery market is expected to be worth 250 billion euros by 2025, creating five million new jobs, and the european industry has already announced 100 billion euros of investment. the european commission will make the proposals, and, madam chancellor, the german presidency of the council has the opportunity today and now to support this. today, 30 years ago, germany became world champion in football, and with this good omen, we wish you well.
mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as the agricultural policy spokesperson for renew europe, i ask you to support agriculture. in the covid-19 crisis, european farming families have produced high-quality, safe and affordable food and ensured uninterrupted supply to the population. we owe this to a european agricultural model. large and small farms, family farms and cooperatives, organic and conventional farms all work under the umbrella of the common agricultural policy. the future is to introduce a new cap model that rewards and makes performance transparent, rather than just rewarding compliance with rules. payments are linked to objectives such as environment, climate and animal welfare. chancellor, we need you on our side. please support the free internal market. please support a strong agricultural budget. ensure a level playing field in global competition and legal certainty for farmers. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy.
madam president, madam chancellor, madam chairman of the commission, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, the impact of the pandemic-induced recession may further deepen economic imbalances in europe. the fear is rightly expressed that stronger member states will become even stronger and weaker ones even weaker. the recovery fund is an attempt to prevent this dangerous trend, but unfortunately, the same is true of the green deal, especially in times of recession, and we don't know how long the pandemic will last. it is clear that some countries cannot, for historical, geographical and economic reasons, achieve the national climate targets set at union level without major economic problems, without hampering the development of their industry. the just transformation fund can mitigate the effects of this transformation, but it cannot solve the problem. we expect the german presidency to make a realistic assessment of the climate targets and to initiate a pragmatic strategy to achieve them.
madam president, madam chancellor, the german presidency will have to shoulder immense responsibilities. europe, more than ever, must be there to support european states and citizens and be of practical use to them. it is useful today, but also tomorrow, and that is why you must succeed in the first stage of the green deal for europe, in particular with a real reform of the common agricultural policy which should be in line with these climatic, sociological and economic changes. the budgetary upheaval will also be there, as you know, and you have an obligation to succeed here too. the european union needs own resources to finance its reconstruction plan and, beyond that, to strengthen its multiannual financial framework. yes, we will need a real tax on financial transactions, a tax on multinational profits, especially digital profits, and a coordinated eu-wide tax on billionaires and multimillionaires. the commission will continue to work on the implementation of the new environmental legislation. finally, public support will need to be conditional on good tax practices and the rule of law, and the fight against tax fraud and evasion will need to be strengthened. madam chancellor, we have no time to fail. we must be at your side to succeed in this challenge.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, chancellor merkel, you have been the true master of this europe for years, dominated by german interests and tailor-made to favour germany and undermine italy. in these years you have slaughtered italy with austerity, you have filled our country with illegal immigrants, you have imposed on us governments never elected by anyone from monti to conte ready to obey your orders. and today you want to impose on us the latest big scam called mes, to put italy under increased surveillance from brussels. chancellor merkel, who gives you the power to trample on the italians, democracy and the sovereignty of our people? the italians do not want the alms of berlin or brussels, the italians simply want their money back, real money, like the 100 billion euros that italy has given to europe over the last 20 years. we want our money back because we have a duty to save the lives of millions of italians and the lives of millions of businesses in the face of the economic crisis of the coronavirus. i wish you a good job, chancellor merkel, but remember that in italy the people are the people, not the germans. our freedom and the dignity of our country are not for sale, not now and not ever.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. many consider the development plan to be your political legacy, but what does that legacy look like? there was the energy revolution and "we can do this". in the eu, germany has always been both the paymaster and the disciplinarian. i'm under the impression that you've given up on the second task, the frugal four standing alone. the layout only talks about large sums. my question is: how is the money to be used? there are no concrete plans yet, just symbolic amounts. the president of the italian central bank, mr visco, has said that italy does not need money, but reforms. spain is in the process of introducing a basic income. at the same time, poverty is increasing in germany and the netherlands. they are turning the monetary union into a transfer union. this is your european heritage. a mountain of debt, as high as the tower of babel once stood. germany is guided by guilt and morality, and i understand that. but those who are guided by morality only lose sight of reality and make things worse.
mr president, madam chancellor merkel, let me say, as a european, as a representative of europeans, as a portuguese, as a member of the ppe and as a member of the psd, that you have our support, that you have our support for the commitment and the european commitment that you have shown here today. i would like to leave you with two very specific questions, both of which relate to european democracy. much has been said here about the rule of law and democracy in the member states, but democracy is also needed at european level. first, to the recovery fund. on the one hand it mobilizes european commitments and on the other hand it also mobilizes huge european expenditure and expenditure and it is therefore important that parliament, together with the council and the commission, be involved in the process of approving this fund. secondly, as regards the conference on the future of europe, it must involve as many citizens as possible, it must be geared to the medium term and i ask whether we should not be open, if so decided and concluded by that conference, to a possible revision of the treaties, if that is necessary, to increase the legitimacy and democracy in the european union.
madam president, chancellor merkel, throughout many crises you have shown yourself to be a real european leader and now again the expectations of citizens are high. we must deliver real solutions in times of social and economic hardship. but next to economic solidarity, we must also stand firm on our fundamental values. as my family grew up behind the iron curtain, i share your belief in a united, democratic europe. you yourself have experienced what it is like to live under a dictatorship, so, ms merkel, be courageous on protecting the rule of law. speak up when autocrats like viktor orbán are undermining the very foundations our free societies have been built on, and act decisively next week at the european council. take a firm stand on a rule of law conditionality for the next seven-year budget. failing to stand up for our common values is a price europe cannot afford to pay.
madam president, i would like to say to madam chancellor that, whenever we have faced global challenges, be they with putin, with erdoğan, you were the person who took the leadership and united europe. but what i have taken the most from your leadership role was your ability to find a practical solution to real problems, to turn words into action. now we need these skills more than ever here in europe, in brussels. we need them on the long-term budget and we need them to restart our economies. you asked us to be mediators. so let me ask you to play the role of an honest broker here in brussels. i ask you to work not only for a franco-german solution, but for one that works for the east and west, for the north and the south, for berlin, paris and in prague, a compromise that unites us. i believe that germany can find this balance and be the voice of not only german, but european, consensus. we need it more than ever.
madam president, chancellor merkel, the hungarian rule of law crisis is at a critical stage. a little over a month ago, a member of my opposition party, momentum, was detained by police because of a facebook post criticising the orbán government. index, the largest hungarian news portal, is fighting for survival because of interference from the fidesz government. municipal governments are being stripped of their revenues after electing opposition mayors last year. corruption and state capture are out of hand. madam chancellor, mr orbán has been in power for ten years. it’s been a decade of procrastination from europe’s side. and we can keep telling ourselves that there is nothing that the council can do. but this is simply not the case. direct eu funds to local governments, to ngos, to people who need it the most – instead of funnelling them through a corrupt government that openly abuses them and tramples on the eu’s values. madam chancellor, there is a concrete proposal on the table, a mechanism. can you support this? because continuing to do nothing is a choice as well. a choice that is detrimental to the stability of the eu and means one more nail in the coffin of hungarian democracy.
mr president, we all feel a sense of urgency to adopt the mff and the recovery package at next week’s council. many have stressed the importance of fairness, sustainability and solidarity. however in april, the idea of a eurobond was killed at the eurogroup, the only proposal so far that could have transferred debt from the level of the member states to the european level automatically, and hence transfer the debt, and with it absorb the costs of the recession from the member states to the european union. in the recovery plan as it is today, i can’t see the guarantees that the funds go to the most desperate european citizens, enterprises and smes, and i can’t see the guarantee that the funds will not lead to an increase in member states’ debt that will eventually lead to austerity and an increase in social inequalities. i’m appalled by the idea that funds are distributed by governments that are in cahoots with either corporate businesses, on the one hand, or with a domestic oligarchy on the other. how can we expect that under such circumstances, funds will go where they are most needed? these guarantees should be included in this agreement before the recovery fund, and the mff, are adopted.
thank you for your time. the coronavirus will be a part of our lives for a while, but we can slowly return to normalcy. there has been a lot of criticism of the european union in recent months, and indeed, we have to say that the union was not able to act effectively enough in the initial period to help fight the coronavirus. state involvement and regional cooperation between nation states and countries have proved effective. but let's talk about the future. we have before us a document that is intended to define a public health strategy for the post-coronavirus period. in this connection, i would like to point out that in my view what is needed is not the single european health service proposed by the left, but maximum health protection for the citizens of the union. the eu needs to work closely with member states to support and coordinate measures, as we have seen with the vaccine strategy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i would say to the commissioner that it is our right to have a non—toxic environment, but we are sadly miles away from that. still, workers in the eu and the rest of the world are dying at an age much too young, only because of the dangerous chemicals they were exposed to simply by turning up at work. still, pollinators, one of the most essential links in our ecosystem, are dying because of the dangerous pesticides we are spraying on our fields. still, babies are exposed to endocrine—disrupting chemicals just by playing with the toxic toys we let them play with. and still, millions of animals are suffering horribly in laboratories as a result of outdated and cheap practices they even dare to call science. even though the eu has some decent legislation in place to protect its citizens against exposure to the most dangerous and hazardous chemicals, those chemicals are still exported to other parts of the world. i am glad that the commissioner has promised us a zero—pollution ambition for a toxic—free environment. with this resolution, the european parliament is giving the commission some homework: to ensure that the chemical strategy for sustainability lives up to our expectations. we have no time to waste. i urge you, commissioner, to deliver the toxic—free world we all desperately need and deserve.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the members for their interventions and for the important points they raised, many of which are also reflected in the resolution they will adopt tomorrow. i take very good note of these points and the views expressed and we will duly consider them when finalising the strategy over the next weeks. my objective with this strategy is very clear: it’s to set out a vision for a comprehensive framework and a very concrete roadmap for action, where all parties should work together. the covid-19 crisis has clearly increased the urgency to step up action in the chemicals area. we have to ensure the protection of our citizens, support the socio-economic recovery of european industry and also promote our strategic autonomy for those chemicals which are important to society and health. this strategy will be delivered as the very first step towards a zero—pollution ambition for a toxic-free environment, with the action plan to follow in 2021. it will also complement other objectives under the green deal, notably to protect biodiversity and to move towards climate neutrality – at the end of the day, a huge contribution to a circular economy. the strategy will also support other priorities of the european commission, such as the digital transition strengthening the european union’s competitiveness, fighting cancer, and many others. its horizontal character makes it so relevant, and we will need joint efforts and the constructive involvement of all stakeholders to implement it and make it a success on the ground. i am counting on your support in this regard and i look forward to continuing the close cooperation with you on this important policy.
in writing. i support this resolution because we need to have an eu strategy to promote sustainability in chemicals, to review legislation that is essential to set the direction for innovation in the transition to a safe and sustainable chemicals sector, and to properly scale up long-term investments in a toxic-free environment. the new strategy should be consistent with and complementary to the other policy objectives of the green deal, in particular the objectives of the climate law, the circular economy action plan, the new industrial strategy for europe and the european cancer plan, as well as the new situation of the european economy following the covid-19 pandemic. also, to promote sustainability in the field, we need to support the involvement of all stakeholders so that no one is left behind.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. when we talk about the social situation of the roma today, we are talking about 10 to 12 million people in europe, and that means that we are talking about some six million citizens of the european union. many, too many of them live in abject poverty and face unimaginable hardship. it is almost ten years since we agreed the roma strategy. some of you were already involved when the process was launched in 2011 with the strong support of this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the commission reports on this and you, ladies and gentlemen, also stressed this in your resolution last year. we have had to recognise that it will take a long time, that it will take too long to eliminate the great intergenerational poverty and to end the decades, if not centuries, of marginalisation of the sinti and roma. i say this also as the representative of a country where, decades ago, some 500 000 sinti and roma, innocent men, women and children, were victims of fascism. yes, the road to full equality, inclusion and participation of roma is a long one. we should have done more already, and we can and must do more in the future. but there's some good news. the european commission reports that the greatest progress has been made in the field of education. for example, member states are taking measures to reduce the number of roma children leaving school early and to increase their access to early childhood education and training and to compulsory education. this is of course of the utmost importance. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. in the 21st century, discrimination, racial prejudice and incitement must be a thing of the past. discrimination and anti-gypsyism must be eradicated once and for all if we are to look ourselves in the eye and if we are to be perceived as a just and equal society. but we also need a coherent policy strategy to combat social inequality. extreme poverty over several generations inevitably leads to a build-up of severe disadvantages in health, education, housing and employment. we need a concept that takes all these areas into account at the same time. it is the only way to break the cycle of marginalisation. and of course roma representatives must also be involved in this process. but not somewhere on the sidelines, but on equal footing, in a dialogue of respect, free of prejudice. if someone doesn't have access to health care or to a regular school, if someone doesn't have a decent home or a job, how can that person ever realize their dreams? how can this man ever develop his talents in our society? the health issue in times of the corona pandemic is particularly heavy. the roma must have equal access to basic health care and specialised health services as everyone else. in view of the new initiatives announced by our commission for october, i would like to thank you, the european parliament, for having repeatedly put this subject on the agenda. in doing so, you not only helped to launch the ten-year strategic framework back in 2011, but you have also regularly reminded us over the past years that this issue remains urgent. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. imagine a roma child born in the year when the framework for the roma strategy was first agreed, namely in 2011, a year of hope, big plans and bright promises for the sinti and roma community. today, this child is nine years old. unfortunately, it is likely that it has not been given the opportunities that most of us here take for granted, the opportunities that we wish for our children and grandchildren. extreme poverty, racial discrimination and social exclusion are not just buzzwords; they are the sad reality in the heart of europe, in the heart of us in all the member states of the european union. they are unfair barriers that deny many roma any chance of a decent life. so let's think about this one child who is now nine years old. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. what prospects will they have in the years ahead? we can't let them down. the council and the european parliament are allies in the joint efforts to promote roma inclusion at european level. i am very confident that this alliance will continue to endure. the member states have the key competences. but we, as the institutions of the european union, can help bring this long and arduous journey to a happy end. fortunately, we also have eu legislation that prohibits discrimination against all ethnic minorities, including roma. this year is a crucial year for roma inclusion strategies. i'm afraid many in this community have heard that phrase too often. so it's more than just lip service. it's about action. i am very much looking forward, dear helena dalli, to the package which the commission is preparing. i assure you that we will do everything in our power to ensure that this package is adopted under our presidency. let us all draw strength for the future from the european values of justice and solidarity. europe was, is and remains a dream of solidarity, a dream of freedom, dignity and equality, but also - and above all - for the sinti and roma, to whom we pay tribute today in a very special way.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank mr roth for this heartfelt introduction to this very important debate. honourable members, thank you for putting roma inclusion on today’s agenda. i thank all of you here today, and the honourable ms lívia járóka, mr romeo franz and mr peter pollák in particular, for the visibility that they provide for the roma community, their commitment and their tireless work for roma equality, inclusion and participation, including through the organisation of this debate. i equally reiterate my thanks to the members present here today for the relentless support towards advancing the agenda on roma inclusion and equality participation. i shall start by quoting chancellor merkel in her speech here in this parliament yesterday. she said, ‘human and civil rights, the inviolability of human dignity, the freedom of individual, personal, political and social development, protection against discrimination and disregard, equality –equality that is not only claimed but also realised. these are the ethical and political foundations on which europe rests ... these are the rights that apply to everyone. they do not apply to some more and others less. they do not apply to some always and to others only sometimes. they apply. this is the promise of europe that we must guarantee: that citizens can truly be free to live their religious beliefs, their cultural or political beliefs, that they may adhere to their respective ideas of happiness, or good life.’ with this chancellor merkel quote in our minds and in our hearts, i shall now address the roma reality, the subject of our debate today. as you know, roma living in marginalised communities are some of the most vulnerable groups hit the hardest by the coronavirus pandemic. the already existing inequalities have been compounded; long—lasting inequalities, discrimination and exclusion have become more visible. the commission is aware of this fact, not least through a series of targeted communications and we have done all possible to deliver prompt intervention. we will remain on alert and will continue to intervene, based on need, in line with our duty and responsibility. the commission responded from the very beginning of the outbreak of the crisis. for instance, together with commissioners kyriakides and schmit, i wrote to member states emphasising the need for specific measures for the most vulnerable groups, including roma, in the context of the coronavirus crisis. we also put forward several instruments as an immediate response to the crisis, which can offer support to vulnerable groups such as roma. no one, and definitely not the most vulnerable, should carry more than the fair share of the burden of this epidemic. the roma community has suffered not just the health and economic impact of this crisis. in some member states, and i really regret to say, roma persons have also been portrayed as a public health threat during the crisis. this is shameful. the pandemic brought to the fore and accentuated deep—rooted discrimination and hatred against these communities. the european commission condemns strongly all forms of stigmatisation, ethnicisation and roma scapegoating. all of these are contrary to eu values and go against the basic principles of our democracy. the european union has the legally binding tools to combat discrimination, including those based on racial or ethnic origin. the council framework decision on combating certain forms of racism and xenophobia is the tool to fight against hate crime, including anti—gypsyism, in speech or action. the racial equality directive prohibits discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin in key aspects of life. roma, as an ethnic minority, fall within the protected categories of people covered by these legal tools, and we have a duty to enforce them. but we also know that legislation is one thing and how effective this is on people’s lives is another. legislation on its own is never enough, in any area, and thus we must do much more. we are closely monitoring member states’ compliance with the directive. three infringement procedures are ongoing against member states. they relate to the segregation of roma children in mainstream schools and their over—representation in schools for children with intellectual disabilities. i am actively working with the countries concerned to put an end to this situation, and will not shy away from opening further infringement proceedings where there is the need. overcoming discrimination and exclusion of roma requires a long—term commitment and a comprehensive approach. as i had announced, we are preparing an ambitious post—2020 initiative: the ‘strategic eu framework for equality, inclusion and participation of roma up to 2030’. this will also reflect the new needs emerging from the coronavirus crisis among marginalised roma communities. i plan to present the new initiative later this year. we aim to have a strong, ambitious and all—encompassing strategy. it is my firm belief that, building on the findings of the evaluation of the 2011-2020 framework, we need to put a stronger focus on promoting equality for roma by fighting anti—gypsyism and discrimination, hand in hand with promoting socioeconomic inclusion. we need to better reflect the diversity among roma; ensure meaningful participation of and partnership with roma communities, roma civil society and all other stakeholders; promote a consistent focus on roma equality and inclusion in all mainstream policies; and work towards improved data collection and monitoring of progress through indicators and clear targets to ensure effective progress and promote policy learning. the dire consequences of this pandemic on roma communities have further accentuated the need for a renewed and strong commitment from all stakeholders to advance further together with the full involvement of roma people themselves. roma people need your and my and our indefatigable, relentless commitment and hard work. i trust that together, we can do a lot to change and improve our societies. together, we can achieve more: more inclusion, more equality, more justice, more participation for our roma communities in europe.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the roma policy of the last decade has caused us to lose generations. the cohesion funds have not reduced the gap between people, they have increased it. the sad reality is that in many european countries, roma children growing up in poverty are less likely to break out of poverty. they're the first people the political elite sacrifices when a crisis is imminent. but this resignation is really a loss for all of us. with segregated education and discrimination in the labor market, we are shutting down thousands, hundreds of thousands of people from having a high-value job. yes, the cruel treatment of roma is making entire societies poorer and countries less competitive. they spent money blindly and hoped that this, and only this, would solve all their problems. they just forgot that you can't base a hook-up solely on money. real containment can only be achieved through humane and just policies. we must therefore implement the policy of support for the next decade together with the roma and share the responsibility. the last hungarian eu presidency has already presented a roma strategy. we are here today, nine years later, because different political forces, such as the hungarian prime minister, are ready to step on anyone at any time just to get votes. now it's time for the gypsy. the cruel treatment of them is becoming a government program before our eyes. what is needed is a just and humane solution, with shared responsibility. let's not give up on anyone, but let's do it together.
madam president, i wonder why this situation still persists, with the roma living in ghettos, with the roma still living in poverty and unemployment. i think both sides have to contribute to change, both the society and the roma. and i want to thank my colleague peter pollak, who is also a representative of the roma ethnic group and is very active. he's aware of that responsibility. i think the key to breaking the chain of reproduction of poverty is education. we know examples of young people who have gotten a good education because they were motivated, but they also had support, and they need that support from society. we need to eliminate racism and support their ambition, their motivation. the european union can help, but the member states must also be active. quality education, supporting parents to have jobs, to have jobs, to be active. i think that's all the way to break the exclusion and help them integrate and be included.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking us today for even more money for a strategy for the integration of the roma in europe. you're not going to upend a centuries-old and essentially cultural situation with even more money. nor is it up to us to bear the cost or the responsibility of a life-style choice. we have millions of unemployed and poor workers in france, whose material situation, as you mentioned earlier, is going to get worse with the covid crisis. how can i explain to my countrymen that, out of a humanistic virtue and a kindness of soul from which they are never the beneficiaries, we would choose to spend more money, more time and more resources to integrate a population that does not want to be integrated? in the face of adversity and the crisis we are going through, we will make the choice to defend france and the french first.
this observation had its place, but i think we have to remember that members of parliament have to respect each other. indeed, ms jamet, you may have said something that is insulting to others. let’s try to remember dignity and mutual respect.
madam president, first of all i would like to comment on the behaviour of colleagues on this side of the house who are allowing themselves to make unacceptable remarks about members of the european parliament. sanction them, or i'll ask for an apology from both of them. that's number one, you're not following the rules. secondly, colleagues, some of you are practicing saying that there was discrimination in bulgaria. i honestly wouldn't comment on that because most of you don't know where bulgaria is on the map, you have no idea what you're talking about, you're speaking from memory, as usual. but i want to show you each one of you and invite you: come to bulgaria and i will show you how to live in a small settlement where the elderly are constantly harassed by the domestic ethnic crime. come see the ones you defend, come see the things you say and prove and show what you really do. and now, since i've heard my name here from some colleagues: colleague, instead of shaking my head up and down, say clearly, like a man, stand up and say: do you accuse me of something? because if you're accusing me of something, i'll give you the opportunity to prove your accusations in court. if you don't, it would be very cowardly and very shameful. you should be ashamed of yourselves!
excuse me, i have to call for some order now. this is not a debate. you had your minute. (voices off micro)if you have a complaint on the basis of the rules of procedure, you can complain to the president. we will continue. (voices off micro)excuse me, mr dzhambazki, you can make a personal statement at the end of the debate, but not now. we will move on. please, you have to show some respect for the chair. i am reading the rules of procedure. please listen. you can make a personal statement at the end of the debate, but not now. we will continue the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for sharing your views today. i am grateful for the dedication and support of the european parliament for this cause. the new strategic eu framework will promote the effective equality, inclusion and participation of roma. it will work to combat and prevent anti—gypsyism and discrimination, to reduce poverty and exclusion and to promote roma participation by empowerment, cooperation and trust. it would also be essential to increase effective access of roma to: quality, mainstream, inclusive education; quality and sustainable employment; quality health care; and adequate desegregated housing and essential services. it is time to close the socio-economic gap between roma and non-roma. with this in mind, i welcome that the german eu presidency has placed roma equality, inclusion and participation, on its agenda. i again thank chancellor merkel for making her commitment to equality, strongly and clearly in the presidency inauguration speech here yesterday. and, of course, i also count on the strong support of parliament in the work ahead of us.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful to have taken part in this debate today, because it shows that we are in agreement to a great extent and that we also know how difficult the task ahead of us is. but if we do this together with great courage and with great commitment, i am sure that by the end of this year we will have a strategy from which we will all emerge stronger. we, as the presidency, want to make a concrete contribution to this. we're going to organize a conference. i am afraid that under the present circumstances this conference will be virtually impossible, but it is another opportunity for exchanges, not only here in parliament and in the other institutions, but also with those directly concerned. i'm surprised by something i've heard from people other than this. it's not about hospitality when dealing with roma. the vast majority of roma are citizens of our countries. (applause from the centre) they have the same rights and obligations as the rest of us. they are not guests, and in that sense it is already part of the discrimination that roma and sinti are subjected to when they are segregated or excluded from a society of free and equal people. i am not talking about privilege, ladies and gentlemen. it 's about something very simple: it is about equal rights and equality for six million citizens of the european union. and it must be made clear again and again that an attack on roma is always an attack on european values, on our principles. i am very grateful to the members who have once again stressed that we need encouragement and role models, especially in this debate. the roma are not just a problem. the opposite is true. the roma as part of our european societies enrich us. for example, in berlin we had a very positive experience with the european roma institute for culture and art, because we want to make it clear that roma also make a very important and essential contribution to the historical and cultural identity of our continent. i would like to see us succeed in making it clear in the strategy that this is about something enriching and about the many opportunities and strengths that we associate with roma. it's not just about the money, of course. we are not just talking about funding in the strategy. it's about attitude. how do we meet the largest ethnic minority in europe and the largest ethnic minority in the european union? in this respect, and also in the context of the anti-racism debate we are having around the world, but also in europe, i would like the phrase 'black lives matter' to be followed by the phrase 'roma lives matter'. that would be my greatest wish, even after this debate.
this conversation is over. mr dzhambazki has invoked rule 173 of the rules of procedure, his right to comment on observations and remarks made about him during the debate. however, i would like to point out that we are not allowed to have a client discussion at this time. i am referring to the remarks made about you and i am asking you to speak for a maximum of three minutes.
madam president, i would like to address the commission representative first and tell him that when he separates one colour and one life and says that only one life matters, that is also racism. when you say only one life matters, that's racism. you're either protecting all lives or none, if you don't want to be racist. madam president, i take this statement to say this: i heard in this chamber today from two colleagues allegations of racism, and it is a serious, serious accusation. it's proven in court. i insist, madam chair, that i get a full video of the statements of these colleagues who have mentioned me and my colleague in the back, and claimed that we are racist, so that we can give them an opportunity in court to prove their point. that's how it should be. i insist, madam chairman, that you punish these colleagues because the colleagues on the left are speculating with freedom of speech. they're always trying to pin something on us, and they think they have the right to pin it on us. i don't think so, i think that every opinion, every single elected person, should have equal weight. am i wrong? i should be right. it should weigh the same. and when someone dares to call from those banks there, hidden, and call someone: "you're a racist!" stand with your face and prove what you say. i'm saying that my colleagues on the left, the bolsheviks, the marxists, people who sympathize with communism, are actually abusing and they should be held accountable for their words. and right now they're still yelling, and right now they're still not respecting the right to an explanation. and another thing, because i've heard a lot of them talking about bulgaria, i'm saying that most of them don't know where bulgaria is on the map and they've never been to bulgaria. and i say on the subject that i can show you dozens of bulgarian citizens, wonderful bulgarian gypsies, wonderful! they laugh at you and don't want you to represent them... yeah, they don't want you to represent them. - i know. - i know. - i know. they don't want you to represent them because they are part of bulgarian society, they are wonderful bulgarian citizens, wonderful! lovely bulgarian citizens! if you had any manners, you wouldn't interrupt me! it's a matter of manners and respect! every voice matters, every one. every opinion matters, i believe so. if you had any respect, you'd at least have the right to speak and finish a sentence. these people are abusing, i insist you punish the colleagues who accused us. please punish them, and i insist we get the full record so we can take them to court and prove their right or wrong. thank you for your attention. good health to you! all life matters! i know.
mr dzhambazki has used his right to make a personal statement on remarks that were made about him, and of course we in the chair will ask for the transcript of the situation to evaluate it, and if needed there will be a reaction from the president of the house. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. there have been many strategies for roma integration, including those promoted by the eu. the european roma and travellers forum was set up in 2004, and a european commission communication was published in 2010, with a comprehensive strategy in 2011. in this context, the eastern european states have undoubtedly made a number of efforts, particularly in the area of access to higher education. however, while the european framework for action set an initial deadline of 2020, it is clear that the failure is clear. whose fault is it? rather than condemning the states concerned, we must recognize that there are many reasons for this. for example, school segregation is partly due to the removal of non-roma children from schools by their parents. it is also necessary to take into account cultural factors, such as early marriage and child labour, even if it is very minor. in 2014, european commissioner viviane reding had to admit that: it is also up to the roma to seek to integrate and have a normal lifestyle. other we must therefore take account of all the responsibilities.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the hungarian government was the only one in 2011 to convince the council members of the importance of integrating the poorest, as the pandemic made things more difficult. the commission finally recognises the importance of the points requested in the ep report, which has been voiced since 2004 and received 97% support from six parties in 2010, as a prerequisite for successful roma integration. the failure of the commission and the council to fully support the main points of my report and the proposals of our government in 2011 has largely set back the successful integration of roma in our member states. the key areas of expertise, housing, health, education, work, digitisation, green energy, agriculture, subsidiarity and the creation of cooperation between genuine roma organisations, the priority of local initiatives, were an integral part of our proposals at the time. i believe that their absence reflects the lack of preparedness of the roma team of the commission at the time and is largely responsible for the poor results of today's roma strategies. i believe in the importance of the right to equal education, and i stress the importance of exchanging existing good practices between countries. in hungary, the number of segregated classes has decreased from 1,400 to 600 over the past ten years. poverty was reduced by 35 percent, helped by the construction of daycare and nursery programs, safe start day care in the poorest regions, one-child family centers, tax breaks for large families, housing, car assistance. it is very important to fight racism, but it is more important to improve living conditions. i ask the commission to take account of the experience of the member states and to incorporate elements of good practice already in place in national public education.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma are the largest pan-european minority. throughout europe, roma problems are similar including low levels of education, absence from the labour market, significantly shorter life expectancy, segregation in education, poor housing conditions, and difficulty in accessing basic public services. the impact of intrascultural factors on the situation of roma (e.g. the phenomena of early marriage and early motherhood) which perpetuate the marginalisation of this community is often underestimated. almost all european countries have programmes to help roma in the form of tailor-made integration policies or mainstream policies. despite many years of action, the situation of this group has not improved significantly. it is therefore necessary to continue the efforts of the member states to promote integration, with a particular focus on improving formal education, including, in particular, for roma youth, and in particular vocational education.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the state of play in the negotiations within the council on the regulation on the protection of the union budget in situations of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in the member states (2020/2709 ((rsp)).
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let me begin by saying something that seems to be taken for granted by all of us. the european union is not primarily a single market or a monetary community, we are first and foremost a community of law and values. these principles, which are the basis of our treaties and which are enshrined in our treaties, are binding on all of us. thank you very much, mr president, for giving me the opportunity to inform you of the state of play of the negotiations in the council on the regulation on the protection of the union budget in the event of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in the member states. this proposal was an integral part of the political pact, the package presented by the commission on 2 may 2018 for the next multiannual financial framework. as such, it will be dealt with by the council in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. the in-depth examination of the proposal started in november 2018. it's been a while. it quickly became apparent that two elements are particularly sensitive for the delegations in the council, namely, firstly, the link with the rule of law and, secondly, the voting mode for the approval of the measures. the presidency felt that progress could not be made on these points without political guidance from the heads of state or government in the council. these questions were therefore included in the draft negotiating box drawn up by the austrian presidency. the romanian presidency continued its expert consultations on other elements of the proposal. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the romanian presidency's progress report provides a detailed overview of the process and the main elements of the consultation. the president of the european council has taken it upon himself to obtain a clear picture of the position of the heads of state or government on the commission's proposal in the context of the discussions on the overall mff package. to this end, it presented draft european council conclusions in february 2020 and as you know this work is still ongoing. without european council guidance on the political elements that have emerged from the examination of the proposal, there is little scope for further work at the technical level. once these political guidelines are in place at the european council - and we hope that this will happen soon - the presidency will immediately start work on the legislative text so that negotiations with the european parliament can begin as soon as possible. in this context, president michel informed you yesterday of the preparations for the forthcoming european council. as the proposals form part of the overall mff package, it is necessary to ensure that the negotiations under the ordinary legislative procedure do not delay the negotiations aimed at securing the consent of the european parliament to the mff regulation. i ask for your indulgence for the complicated remarks, but it is a difficult dossier and that is why i wanted to inform you as transparently as possible about this procedure and about the discussions in the council.
member of the commission. – madam president, the summit next week marks an important moment for europe and, as we have seen throughout europe, as each of us has felt in his or her own country and constituency, corona has changed our way of life and the economy. this unprecedented challenge is the moment when europe matters more than ever. the lives of millions of people, the future of hundreds of thousands of companies and the prospects of many regions depend on our recovery plan. this makes it even more important that every euro we invest via our common eu budget really adds value and becomes a true investment in our future. europeans expect us to protect taxpayers’ money and interests. rightly so. the rule of law regulation plays an important role here and i appreciate this debate right before the summit. so let me highlight three points. first, where there are cases of generalised rule of law deficiencies in a member state, we need an effective instrument to protect taxpayers’ money. our rule of law proposal creates a genuine budgetary protection mechanism. second, it’s a targeted tool to protect the european union budget. that means that it’s fully in line with the treaties and it’s distinct from the mechanism under article 7 of the treaties. third, it’s an objective and transparent budgetary mechanism to protect sound financial management. measures will be proportionate to the impact on the eu budget and the position of the member state concerned will be duly considered. the burden of proof will be borne by the commission and the council. the measures will need to be based on concrete factual elements and on specific grounds. so i thank parliament once again for its support for the commission’s proposal through the legislative resolution of 4 april 2019. the points raised by parliament were well noted, notably the need to ensure the protection of final recipients and beneficiaries. it’s important that they don’t pay the price for rule of law deficiencies. the commission is committed to addressing these issues in the trilogues. the scope of our proposal is clear. it establishes a genuine mechanism to protect the eu budget and ensure sound financial management. in november 2019, the committee on budgetary control (cont) and the committee on budgets (budg) already decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations with the council. i trust that trilogues can start swiftly under the german presidency and i took note, with great pleasure, of the statement of the council representative. i count on the continued support of parliament to find an agreement that preserves the effectiveness and the ambition of this important proposal. protecting our common budget is our common interest. the rule of law proposal is a key feature of the overall mff negotiations and therefore time is of the essence. only if you, honourable members, and the european council strive for an overall political mff agreement in the summer will we have a chance of getting support to where it is needed. i know this is indeed very ambitious and would represent an unprecedented speed. well, these are unprecedented times. i think that for citizens, companies and regions every day counts and we have to deliver. this is in all our interests.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, one and a half years ago actually, parliament already reached its position on the regulation on the protection of the union’s budget in case of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in the member states. this rule of law mechanism would be a huge leap and enable the eu to protect our values, as well as our taxpayers’ money and the union budget, from misuse and fraud. this parliament has a solid stance. we need a strong rule of law mechanism. it is somewhat worrying that the bits of information we have received from the council hint that there are still disagreements within the council even on the very basic idea of the regulation. we, as the european parliament, have called on the council to engage in meaningful talks about its ongoing negotiations. we stress that we will not simply rubber-stamp a fait accompli without carrying out proper negotiations. so, a question to the council remains: will your level of ambition match ours?
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner han, minister roth, i am pleased and i was pleased to hear yesterday that the presidency has among its priorities the defence of fundamental rights, and we share the importance of respect for the rule of law as a fundamental aspect of european construction, and as the main acquis communautaire. you said it yourself: we are a union of rights and values. and we are here today to discuss this because we want to stress that this is not only a priority for the european parliament, but a necessary condition for the smooth running of the budget negotiations that we are going to have in the coming months. the european parliament has clearly stated its position on the commission's proposal. it is not only important to respect the rule of law, but we must ensure that all the de facto and de jure commitments made by the member states when they signed up to the european union are respected. that is why we speak of equality, solidarity, the fight against tax fraud and unfair competition in tax matters. chancellor merkel, in her speech yesterday, referred to the need to work with the european parliament to protect the common europe. 'together, we will make europe stronger again', he said. and you've stressed that, too. well, here we are, ready to negotiate with the council. and i want to stress the 'negotiating' part, because you have to negotiate this regulation with parliament. we are not here to support any agreement that comes out of the council. they must negotiate with the european parliament so that together we can continue to build a common europe that is a world leader in respecting and defending fundamental values.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, in discussing threats to the rule of law, our debate should naturally focus on the situation in malta or slovakia, where journalists have been murdered in a context of political power that is both socialist and corrupt. but today, once again, the people you are trying to deprive of european structural funds are poland and hungary, the people's governments with a broad and unquestionable democratic legitimacy, and who, it must be said, are better elected than you will ever be, better elected than those who, in any case, want to teach them a lesson. for you, they are wrong to refuse both the unbearable blackmail of migration, but also not to give in to lgbt groups and their procession of extremist, marginal and contrary to the general interest demands. as regards the rule of law, no one here is talking, for example, about the appointment in france a few days ago of mr dupond-moretti as the new minister of justice of emmanuel macron, mr dupond-moretti, who had called for the outright ban of the main opposition party in france. it is clear that the rule of law has become a politicized concept that is used to impose the government of judges against the will of the people. but the more you try to subdue the people, the more they will resist.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. it is clear that the source of law is the treaties and we support those initiatives on the rule of law within the union that are in line with the letter and spirit of the treaties and take into account that in accordance with the principle of conferral the union acts only within the limits of the competences conferred on it by the member states in the treaties to achieve the objectives set out therein, and any competences not conferred on the union in the treaties are conferred on the member states. unfortunately, the planned mechanism linking the union budget to the rule of law is not precise and does not guarantee legal certainty for member states. conditionality for the expenditure of funds must be based on objective, specific, measurable and adequate criteria. it cannot go to the indefinite catalogue of sources of danger or phobias presented by the left side of the stage in parliament. the proposed draft regulation does not meet these criteria and leaves too much room for manoeuvre. it is political, not legal or economic.
madam president, i will not use my minute to attack anyone from the left or the right. i don't think that's what this debate is about, fellas. and every time things go wrong here, whether it's against fidesz or the socialists, it takes away our legitimacy to negotiate anything with the council. let's go with the consensus of the whole house. we want to have the principle that if in a country and whoever is in power, we will not defend him in any way, from whatever party , in a state ceases to respect universal human rights, then that state cannot receive our general support in financial means. and that is why we are calling on the council, why we are calling on the commission: 'let us start negotiations!' ladies and gentlemen, let us stop fighting in these debates and let us direct our efforts to the council and let us finally sit down at the table. i think the issue is more important than whether one or the other is in power.
madam president, this new budget is a perfect chance for the european union to finally move beyond lip service, to put our money where our mouths are, to place our european values at the heart of our european budget. renew europe put a sound and thorough proposition on the table. our smart conditionality mechanism is a perfect way to ensure that corrupted governments who violate the rule of law are punished but final beneficiaries – ngos, local governments, the people – are not. it entails three very simple steps: monitor, freeze and reroute. monitoring through mandatory membership in the european public prosecutor’s office, freezing funds in case of systemic breaches, and redirecting them to final beneficiaries, with direct control by the commission. let me add something to the political difficulties that are being discussed so often by the council. there is a narrative that a conflict of interest exists between member states, and i believe this is largely a misconception. of course there is a conflict of interest, but it’s between the heads of states and governments, and they do not equal their member states. prime minister orbán does not equal hungary. so i would be curious to hear who the council chooses to represent, because i believe that the council should be representing the people, the small businesses, the ngos, the local governments, the people in need, and they should be the recipients of a direct eu funding from the commission. because, colleagues, how can we trust governments that misuse their powers, who do not respect eu values and fuel corruption? how can we trust them to spend our european money effectively? i think the answer is clear: we cannot, and we should not.
now we're going to debate. i would inform members that in this debate, one member of each group may speak in turn and there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure and no 'card of the century' questions. the following is inserted in point 1 (commission decision of 15 december 2011): i'm giving the floor to oliver township on behalf of the committee.
before i give the floor, officer, allow me to open the first round of voting today before we continue this debate. we will vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 9.45 to 11.00 in the same manner as yesterday's vote. every vote will be a roll call. meps can also check their votes and the results of the votes on the plenary website. the grounds for voting shall be submitted in writing only. we will accept, on an exceptional basis, ballot papers of no more than 400 words. i now call the first round of voting. voting is open until 11:00. the results of the vote will be announced at 1:30 p.m.
thank you very much, and now i would like to give the floor to mr oliver townsend on behalf of the commission to answer the questions that have been raised.
i'll close this discussion. the next item is the commission statement on the cultural recovery of europe. i would like to remind the house again that there will be no immediate question and answer session at the end of the debate. after a few minutes of technical pause (we'll wait until the bench is disinfected) and then i'd like to give the floor to the committee representative. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
i'd like to give the floor to the committee's representative. mr. schinas, you have the floor.
thank you for your comment. that's why i'm trying to get you to keep your speaking time. unfortunately, our technical capabilities, primarily because of the translators, do not allow it. we very much hope that sooner or later we can return to normal operating procedures and then we can move on and have longer discussions. i call mr nienass from the green group. and then i'm gonna ask everyone to hold that one minute.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a clear majority in this house for more solidarity, for more transparency, for more sustainability, for more europe. it's not about which country gets what or how much, no, my question is: what are we investing in? the rescue of the economy must not be at the expense of forward-looking programmes. how can we talk about the next generation and cut back on education spending? how can you want to implement a green deal and cut the budget for the just transition fund in half? how can governments cut health and research spending in the middle of a pandemic? and what about our hopes for a more sustainable cap if the planned subsidy for rural development is cut in half? these cuts cannot be borne by this parliament. because you don't rebuild after a rebuild, you rebuild during a rebuild.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from rhetoric and triumphalism, it took only a few hours to discover that the agreement of 21 july is not the best possible agreement. in this resolution, they are the same people who greet their prime ministers with standing ovations in national parliaments, as happened to conte yesterday in the italian parliament. of course, on paper there is money, but we were right when we said that the response was late and insufficient, when we said that it was wrong to go ahead with the reductions in national contributions, that the part of the subsidies was too small, that the money would come too late, when too many businesses would already be closed and that is why we needed a bridge mechanism to help them immediately. we were right to denounce a governance full of conditionality, which risks to supervise our economic choices, and we were right, again, to say that instead of asking contributions from the chinese, the giants of the web or finance, postponed to the date to be used, from 1 january 2021 you will massacre european companies with the tax on plastic. we were right, and you wrote it.
madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my support and affection for the families of the deceased, who will always be in our memory, while i would like to pay tribute to all the workers who have been and continue to be fighting the pandemic. the deal is positive. it means taking a step forward and not wasting time, not even a minute, because time is running out and we're late. we must act swiftly and boldly. it is a plan of european solidarity, but also of cohesion. it is a historic agreement because never before have all the member states generated debt together. because of its scale and also because it is an important step in the process of european integration. the objective is clear: to restore jobs, to restore europe, to protect europe and to save lives. the leadership of chancellor merkel and the president of the commission herself, ursula von der leyen, both popular women, is indisputable here. this plan requires responsibility, stability and, at the same time, an ambitious and solid reform programme from the member states. i am talking about all the member states. spain has done this in the past with the rajoy government and it has produced good results. europe has complied. it is now up to the member states to meet the needs of the citizens, especially in spain, where the general interest must take precedence over the balance of power. i must tell you that this money must be kept under very close control so that it is spent where it is needed most. the second part of the agreement, the multiannual financial framework, is not satisfactory. we do not agree with unjustified and unjustifiable cuts. in concrete terms, the 10% cut in the common agricultural policy and the countryside is absolutely unjustified. the field cannot be the payment for this negotiation, especially when the field has been exemplary in its conduct during the pandemic. also cuts in health, cuts in just transition, cuts in education, cuts in erasmus. all these cuts put the future of europe at stake. and finally, to tell you that i am very concerned about the protection of the rule of law. we need mechanisms to guarantee the defence of the rule of law. without the rule of law there is no democracy, but without democracy there is no europe.
madam president, let me start off positively. so let me first congratulate president michel and president von der leyen on what has been achieved on the recovery fund. i think a large majority in this parliament agrees that it was innovative, it is what the people need right now, those people who are afraid of losing their jobs. so congratulations, for that is forward-looking. this is where the praise stops though, because i do believe that with the mff it’s not a budget that is a budget for the challenges we are facing as europe right now. it’s a budget which lacks ambition, it lacks modernity, and president von der leyen, you can’t be satisfied with this as the european commission. let me just give you one example. when this crisis is leading to a global inequality, what do we do? we cut the money for development aid. the most important point: because of money we can negotiate, but we can’t negotiate on our values, and the fact in itself that we have law professors, we have eu leaders, we have journalists who are all having a different interpretation about what the european council has agreed on when it comes to the rule of law, is a bad signal. i hear some people saying it’s very good that for the first time we mention the rule of law and the budget together. this is not something to be proud of: this we didn’t need 15 years ago. now we have two countries in the european union who, according to freedom house, are a hybrid regime and no longer in the group of democracies. so please, for my party, for my group – and i hope for a majority in this parliament – we have to have clear wording on rule of law before we can agree to this budget. it’s not about money: it’s about principles.
madam president, the editor-in-chief of hungary’s largest independent news portal, index, was fired yesterday, a few hours after mr orbán proclaimed his victory over brussels. i say to president von der leyen and president michel: empty words without action only serve to embolden the populists. this budget is our historic chance to rebuild and renew europe, and i’m very glad we have this deal. but make no mistake, this deal is what we make of it. it can strengthen europe or it can help the anti-european populists. because yet again the council failed to deliver a strong rule of law mechanism – a clear link between eu values and eu money. and parliament’s call should be clear: no more empty promises on values, no more uncontrolled flows of eu money to the pockets of corrupted oligarchs but direct funds to local communities who need them now more than ever before. we ask the commission to take action and take leadership on these commitments, and we ask the german presidency to live up to chancellor merkel’s promises and treat rule of law as a top priority. anything less than concrete action is unacceptable for us. (applause)
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic that has been raging for months is a major challenge for the whole world, with many previously undetected problems coming to the surface. since its creation, the civil protection mechanism has provided assistance on numerous occasions to disaster-stricken countries not only in europe but also around the world. the past period has shown that in a case like the present one, the eu should acquire means beyond coordinated assistance and should directly assist member states, as after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, member states were left to improve their own situation by buying masks, tests, respirators, medicines and other tools essential to combating the global pandemic. unfortunately, we have had to recognise that the current crisis management system has its limitations, and that the eu needs to respond more quickly and effectively to major emergencies such as the coronavirus. i therefore consider the amendment proposal on the eu civil protection mechanism to be of great importance, as it would provide even more resources for resceu, thus ensuring adequate preparedness.
mr president, i would say to mr borrell that i tend to agree with those colleagues who suggest the best the eu can offer to belarus is the prospect of european values. while putin offers military support to shore up lukashenko’s regime, europe must offer an alternative prospect of a free society, rule of law, democracy and freedom. but how credible is the european union in doing so if it cannot speak with a single voice on this subject, and if it tolerates lukashenko—style authoritarianism amongst its ranks, like the prime minister of hungary, viktor orbán, who was the last official visitor to belarus as a symbolic move, and who used this occasion to praise lukashenko’s regime and to bash the european union? ever since, he has been busy constructing a regime which looks very much like that of lukashenko’s: suppressing press freedom, rigging elections, stifling the opposition and building a corrupt system. all these are attributes of viktor orbán’s hungary today.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the epidemiological situation in many member states of the union has developed unfavourably in recent times and several member states, including my country, hungary, have decided to re-introduce measures that have already been successfully applied. the question of closing the border has been raised several times in recent weeks. i would like to emphasise that i consider the concerns to be completely unfounded, as the restrictions on border traffic and entry do not go beyond what is strictly necessary to avoid the danger as defined in the schengen borders code. each member state shall be responsible for taking the measures it considers appropriate concerning the closure of its borders. harmonisation is not the answer because of the slowness of the eu institutions. the protection of human health and life is of paramount importance during the second wave and only member states can adequately ensure such protection based on experience. thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to say to madam president of the commission that credibility is essential if you want to implement reforms or your ambitious agenda, and it is also essential if you want to speak in a single voice in international affairs and show an alternative to democratic opposition in belarus or elsewhere. implementing the rule of law criteria is an issue on which the commission is not credible. i just want to remind you that the mff proposal which was brokered by the commission and the council was rejected by this chamber exactly on that ground and for that reason. we have so many times heard your words on no compromise on rule of law that we all know it by heart and we are somewhat bored of it. i’m also happy to hear that the commission is going to compile a report on rule of law and i will be very happy to read it and i will be very glad to come back here and debate it. but i’m afraid that it will have absolutely nothing new to say to me on my country at least, hungary, where my country stands on rule of law. the criteria that you have set out – judicial independence, press freedom, institutional checks and balances, corruption – i can tell you exactly where hungary stands on this subject and on this issue and you can save your time and energy. this week i was very happy to come here and listen to the commission vice-president věra jourová stand up for linking eu funds to rule of law, saying who doesn’t understand the talk about values will understand the language of money. after this i was curious to come here and hear some details and specifics from you about what this will really entail, but now i’m a bit suspicious that once again the money talks, will work backwards and in another way. last time we discussed here in this chamber rule of law in hungary and heard from the commission that there will be no compromise, a few days later a german minister, your successor to the ministry of defence in germany, ms kramp-karrenbauer arrived in budapest to sign one of the greatest contracts on arms deals in the history of hungary with the hungarian government. is there anyone surprised here why there is little if any progress on this issue vis-à-vis hungary. ms von der leyen, when will you back up your words with action on rule of law?
i give the floor to mr androulakis, who has requested the opportunity to speak under rule 59 (4), to refer to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations the report on the amendment of decision no 1313/2013/eu on the union civil protection mechanism (com ((2020) 0220 - c9-0160/2020 - (2019/0097 ((cod)).
i'll inform my colleagues that the vote is open until 14:15 and the results will be announced at 16:45.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the case of dr denis mukwege in the democratic republic of the congo (2020/2783 ((rsp)) *.
just so we understand correctly, ms matias, you are not an author, because on the list you are ...
i am really sorry for the confusion; the lists are still a little bit incorrect. so the next speaker is then mr vincze from the epp.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in mozambique (2020/2784 ((rsp)) *.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
we'll continue with the second vote today. we will vote on the motions as scheduled. the vote will take place from 1 to 2:15 p.m. the voting procedure shall be the same as that used in the previous vote. all votes are cast by name. i'll open the second ballot, you can vote until 2:15. the second vote will be announced at 4:30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.15 p.m.)
madam president, commissioners, mr šimečka, i would first of all like to congratulate you both on the reports you have been able to produce. i am very happy to know that we are finally taking steps towards a mechanism that applies to all states, a mechanism for monitoring the rule of law. but there is one point i would like to draw your attention to: we are very much focused, well, on the idea that there can be no aid to states that do not comply with the rule of law. but there are european states which do not receive aid, and for these too there must be sanctions if they do not comply with the rule of law. because the values of the rule of law are not monetary values, they are fundamental values. as my colleague mr bilčík and my colleague mr gonzález pons have said, these are fundamental values of the identity of europe, of the identity of democracies. and so we have to think of a mechanism that actually applies to all the states, and not just those that are net recipients of european union funds, because there cannot be a mechanism for monitoring democratic values and the rule of law that applies only to the poorest states, those that are in convergence. there must be a mechanism that can work for all the states, from the richest and largest to the smallest and poorest.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, in europe, some governments are destroying the rule of law by building an inhuman and unjust system. i am glad that europe has finally made up its mind, because we have to do something about it now! we, the representatives committed to the rule of law, have three demands. one: europe must take strong action to defend the rule of law and to confront the leaders who are building unjust systems! two, we need tools, mechanisms that cannot be directly circumvented by two governments that are in conflict with each other. thirdly, we expect that in all cases the peoples of the member states concerned will not be punished for the crimes of their governments. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the hungarian people are sending a message to you, european decision-makers, that the hungarian people are not equal to viktor orbán! we're not pouring european funds on the prime minister, we're giving them to the people they're supposed to be for: honest people, businesses, ngos. enough of this idleness! the future of europe must be a strong, just and effective union.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm often asked who we're fighting for when we're demanding the rule of law. my answer is that the rule of law protects ordinary people when the state abuses its power, when the authorities, the courts fail to provide them with justice. when we fight for the rule of law, we fight for the common people. when we fight for the rule of law, we fight for the taxpayers, who have the right to know that the leaders of the state spend public money for themselves, for the enrichment of their families, or for the good of the country. the institutions of the rule of law are designed so that no government can take away taxpayers' money. when we fight for the rule of law, we fight for the taxpayers. viktor orbán is against the rule of law because he wants to continue using the support of the european union to enrich his family members, his oligarchs. but we want these billions to serve the interests of the hungarian people, hungary, and that is why we insist that the rule of law be a condition for european aid.
madam president! i am speechless when i see the german presidency not keeping its promise at the july summit. i am speechless when i see the european commission's manipulation of article 7 in order to circumvent it, even though the council's legal services say quite openly that this mechanism is a duplication of article 7. i am struck by the way in which the german vice-president of the european parliament, mrs barley, talks about the starvation of a member state, and then brazenly speaks in parliament about values. i am speechless, madam president, when i hear the german presidency talking about justice and the rule of law. perhaps it's time you declared reparations to poland. he exterminates 6 million polish citizens, plunders polish property, razes warsaw to the ground, exterminates polish elites. and i'm at a loss for words when, in the interest of democracy, you don't respect democratic governments in warsaw.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm hungarian, i love my country and i love freedom. i fought for my country and freedom against the communist dictatorship. i am a citizen of a country which commissioner jourová has described as ill-equipped for the greater glory of the rule of law. i belong to the community, the community of hungarians, about which the liberal jourová, driven by a deep commitment to the rule of law, said that most hungarians cannot form their own opinions. and my country was recently threatened, in the name of the rule of law, by the german socialist vice-president of the european parliament, mrs barley, to be financially starved. insults, threats, political blackmail, arrogance of power. i'm not going to lie. this is completely unacceptable. mr. roth, the minister. these speeches are indeed reminiscent of the communist party's puffed-up talkers of the 1970s and 1980s, who advocated that we either accept their violent party ideology or we are finished. we've endured them and fought for our freedom. we'll be able to withstand these attacks. (the president withdrew)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer acceptable that governments, such as the polish and hungarian governments, are able to blackmail - yes, i use the word blackmail - the other european executives by demanding that they ignore the rule of law in exchange for a faster exit from the next generation eu. the recovery plan cannot and must not depend on the whims and bluffs of the nationalists, as has already been said: we must stand together, isolating these dangerous positions. we must protect our european model based on a strong welfare state and the right to freedom, because while nationalist and far-right political leaders talk about an abstract defence of values, in reality they are the ones who do not defend at all the values of freedom, equality, democracy and self-determination that the union expresses. that is why we need an ambitious agreement on conditionality linked to respect for the rule of law, because starting over after the pandemic also means change, it means bringing the resources for recovery to our territories quickly and it also means fighting for the respect of democratic rights and freedom throughout the union, without exception.
madam president, this in my hand is the european commission’s annual report on hungary’s rule of law situation. it says that there is a systemic lack of determined action to investigate and prosecute corruption cases involving high—level officials or their immediate circles. and this is the 2019 report of olaf, the european union’s anti—fraud body, which shows that financial irregularities in hungary are ten times above the eu’s average. so what we have is that the european union’s official position is that we have a member state where corruption is off the charts, and there are basically no guarantees against the government pocketing eu taxpayers’ money. so the question is obvious: when are we going to do something about it? when the rule of law is in danger, these projects should be directly managed by the commission so that they reach the final beneficiaries, the small businesses, the civil society, those who need it the most. because let’s face it, words are not enough anymore. let’s act. there is a pandemic raging around us. we need to help those who are in need. (applause)
in writing. i welcome the conclusions of the european council of 1 and 2 october which include the digital objectives. over the past few years, a series of projects has been undertaken that have increasingly demonstrated the capabilities and challenges of rapidly evolving artificial intelligence. the biggest problem today is the inherent nature of ai, which is built on the intelligent processing of large data sets. the eu's data strategy, published in february, sets ambitious targets for the creation and interconnection of european data spaces. data are the basis for new technologies that are crucial in all areas of the economy. the aim is to have as much data as possible, of the highest quality, that can be used by both the public and private sectors. the european commission will present the planned eu legislative act including the data strategy only in the first half of 2021. i believe that there is a need to clarify a number of concepts during this period, while at the same time prioritising the protection of sensitive and valuable national data sets and personal data, including health data that is considered to be special data.
i'd like to make an announcement first. i greet you with love. unfortunately, due to travel restrictions, some maltese interpreters are not available, so today's session will only be available for passive interpreting from maltese into other languages. this means that maltese members may speak in their own language, but speeches in other languages will not be translated into maltese, so they will have to use another language, english, french or german. thank you for your understanding.
the next item is the debate on the report of jytte guteland on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on establishing a framework for achieving climate neutrality and amending regulation (eu) 2018/1999 (the european climate regulation) (com ((2020) 0080 - c9-0077/2020 - 2020/0036 ((cod)) (a9-0162/2020).
congratulations on your child, but i would like to ask the group not to show photos in the parliament.
i have to ask you again not to show pictures and placards in the chamber. the groups have decided that we use the power of language in this chamber, so please do not do it again. thank you very much.
madam president, climate change and environmental damage are a serious threat to europe and the world. that's why it's important to be ambitious and make europe the world's first climate-neutral continent. the adoption of the eu climate regulation ahead of us can confirm that not only individual member states but the eu itself is taking action to protect our world in the fight against climate change. however, the form in which we do so is not important. first of all, i would like to point out that the commission's latest impact study unfortunately did not show the effects at member state level, so detailed modelling will have to be carried out, which will of course take time. it is important that member states follow good examples in order to achieve common objectives. for example, hungary is at the forefront of the eu in achieving its emission reduction targets. however, there is one point, my fellow members, that we cannot let go of. we insist that the costs are not paid by the families, but by the climate destroyers. rising food and energy prices must be avoided. in order to achieve climate neutrality, all sectors of the economy need to take action. but we can't afford to let industry get in the way. however, it is also important that we implement eu climate action at national level and that we can put targeted actions into a workable framework.
mr president we cannot stand by and watch our environment being destroyed. every day we waste is bringing us closer to climate catastrophe. that is why we cannot give up on the goals we believe in and on the tangible results we can achieve in the years and decades ahead. but what do we need to do to see real change by 2030 or 2050? for example, we must insist on reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 65 percent in ten years. we cannot allow governments, including the hungarian government, to wait until after 2030 to start pursuing a real green policy. there's no time for this. if we let this happen, we're not going to achieve total climate neutrality by 2050. but i want to be able to look people in the eye 20 years from now and proudly say that we've not only tried, but we've actually made real progress on climate change. as i've said many times, we don't have another planet, so we have to be brave and green. let's make a bold and green climate bill.
mr president, the nagorno—karabakh conflict is a frozen conflict and frozen conflicts have the nature of erupting every now and again. so who started this conflict now, this time round, is completely irrelevant. if we want to be responsible concerning the worrying escalation of the nagorno—karabakh conflict, and find a long—term solution, we have to remember the source of the conflict. thirty years ago, at the time of the break—up of the soviet union, armenian forces, together with russian forces, invaded nagorno—karabakh and seven adjacent territories, territories of azerbaijan, leaving many dead on both sides and over one million internally displaced people. since then, a dozen resolutions issued by the un security council, nato, the european parliament and the osce have all been adopted with an overwhelming majority, if not unanimously. they all say the same: armenia must withdraw unilaterally, restore the territorial integrity of azerbaijan, and the armenian minority must be granted autonomy on the territory of azerbaijan. so international law provides clear guidance. the real question is how we enforce and implement our resolutions.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the nicaraguan law on 'foreign agents' (2020/2814 ((rsp)).
i would like to remind you again: i know that there was a request about changing the regulation on the speaking order. in the next bureau meeting we will discuss this, but for now in this session we are going to stick to the regulation, so it’s in order of tabling.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate.
the following item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation of ethiopian migrants in detention in saudi arabia (2020/2815 ((rsp)).
i would like to repeat again what i said before the debate, that the order of interventions remains according to the rules now, but at the next bureau meeting we are going to talk about the request by several meps to change the order of intervention.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12.29 p.m.)
we now come to the second vote of the day. we're voting on the documents on the agenda. the vote will take place from 1 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. we shall vote by the same method as in the previous vote. every vote will be a roll call. i call the vote. you can vote until 2:15. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4:30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.01 p.m.)
good afternoon, and i welcome you all to the debate. the next item is a joint debate on digital services and artificial intelligence. the seven reports are the reports of the rapporteurs agius saliba, wölken, peeters, garcía del blanco, voss and séjourne. i'd like to start by giving the floor to agius saliba, one of the speakers on the report. you have the floor, congressman.
mr president technology helps people solve everyday problems, fulfills many convenient functions, and carries with it the potential for continuous improvement. at the same time, the power, economic weight and undisputed social impact of the tech giants has been brought to the attention of all eu member states. in the european parliament, our task is to ensure the maximum security of our citizens online and to guarantee the democratic values of transparency and accountability. it's important that what's illegal outside of the online space should be considered illegal in the online space as well. to this end, platforms should step up their efforts to swiftly detect and remove illegal content. the fight against illegal content can only be tackled if member states act in a coordinated and joint manner, taking into account national considerations. digital giants are using algorithms to influence our lives on a daily basis, to influence our consumption habits, our decisions. it is therefore important that consumers are informed when a digital service uses artificial intelligence and that the correction of errors caused by the nature of that service is guaranteed. if problems are not addressed, ai can lead to wrong decisions, and it can influence decisions with false data. one of the biggest challenges of our time is whether we're going to be able to step out of the digital bubble and dominate technology, or whether we're going to let technology take control of our lives. and i think we need to create an ai ecosystem that serves the interests of people, that puts people at the center.
good afternoon, we'll continue the meeting. and i hereby open the second round of voting today. we will vote on the items on the agenda. the voting will take place from 2:30 p.m. to 3:45 p.m. and the voting procedure will be the same as that which we have been accustomed to in the past weeks and months in previous rounds of voting. i'm calling your attention to the fact that all votes will be by name, and i'm opening the second round of voting, so you can cast your ballots until 3:45 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 6:15 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.31 p.m.)
the rapporteur. - mr president! if you don't learn from the past, you'll repeat the same mistakes. we've heard that phrase many times over the years. dear colleagues, we do not want to repeat the mistakes of the past. we therefore need to learn from the mistakes europe made in dealing with the economic crisis of 2008-09. you remember, after the housing bubble burst, europe was facing an economic collapse not seen since world war ii, and we europeans successfully defended the banks and successfully defended the viability of the economy. we just forgot about the most vulnerable, forgot to reach out to those who lost their jobs, their homes, their homes, who were in a hopeless situation. europe can never make that mistake again. and now history is testing us again. the economic and social impact of the coronavirus crisis is still not fully understood. one thing is certain: if we can say that ten years after the last crisis, europe has successfully rebuilt its economy but failed its citizens, we can never again afford to be blamed for this ten years after the current coronavirus crisis. that is why i want to make sure that in my report, in every way, we help the most vulnerable, the most disadvantaged. that is why i am calling for the introduction of a european minimum wage and for regulation at european level. i want us to invest a lot more money than we've ever done before in education, social investment, health care. in the latter context, the report supports the creation of a european health union. we've learned our lesson. we also propose that the elderly living below the poverty line should also be entitled to a fair and adequate pension. we recommend that member states reform their tax systems so that they do not increase the gap between the richest and the poorest, but rather reduce it, because that is our job. and that's why we support the rule of law, because the rule of law is the one thing that can protect the most vulnerable, the poorest, the most vulnerable against the powerful, the powerful. i know very well that we in the european parliament, in the overwhelming majority, want the same thing, a strong and successful europe. but let us understand that there is no strong and successful europe without strong and successful european citizens. if we cannot say that every european citizen is strong and successful, then europe will not be strong and successful. so i ask you to support my report. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. at the beginning of the debate i said that i was sure that everyone here in this house wanted a strong and successful european union, and the debate convinced me that it was, and i thank you very much for the support from the different parties, the different party groups, the majority. it was repeatedly said in the debate that the budget deficit, the public debt, the balance should be given priority. i would like to reassure those who are skeptical that we are all aware of our responsibility for the future, we are all aware that we are responsible for the way the european union is run. but let's look at what makes a country competitive, what makes the european union competitive and innovative? competitive and innovative people. and what makes people competitive and innovative? if they're smart, if they're healthy, and if they're balanced. this is the european union's competitive advantage. if we keep doing things the way we've been doing them, we're gonna be in trouble. while we have focused on budget deficits exclusively in the last 10 years - with relative success - we have seen millions of european children falling short of quality education. how they will become smart, competitive, innovative europeans; they will be missed. while we've been focusing on budget deficits, we've allowed a series of member states to take resources away from health care, and today health care is not available to everyone in many places on a level playing field, and we are now literally fighting a life-and-death battle against a new virus. how will this make europeans smart and healthy, and how will it enable them to run a smart, healthy, innovative and competitive economy in the future? and when i say we need balanced people, it's when we've been constantly looking at the budget deficit, when youth unemployment is skyrocketing, when working poverty has increased in the last ten years, and when the gap between rich and poor in europe has not decreased, but has increased. we did something wrong. and here is an opportunity to do something right, to set goals that are not just about economic indicators getting better - or not - but about the lives of the people of europe getting better, because what is the point of running an economy well if it is not to make people live well, predictably and safely. so thank you for your support.
in writing. the drivers of deforestation are diverse, complex and interconnected in different geographical areas. i agree with the rapporteur that deforestation does have a number of negative environmental, economic and social impacts, in particular on climate, biodiversity and poverty. but we have different views on how to handle this. i believe that further intensive preparatory work is needed for the global forest protection mechanism to be operational. if we are to actively combat deforestation, the eu must take the lead in many areas. this includes supporting capacity building in developing countries, strengthening forest governance and filling gaps. i believe it is important that the eu supports initiatives that have already proven their worth: the global alliance on climate change, for example, provides a framework to promote dialogue with developing countries on deforestation and follow-up measures to help continue efforts to address the problem of deforestation. what is certain is that the eu must take a leading role in shaping the global policy response to deforestation. the community and the member states should work together to pool resources and ensure that actions are complementary. the fight against deforestation must be fought on several fronts. one thing is certain, in this fight, my country, hungary, will be a partner.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we prepare the european budget for the next five years and discuss the financing of the recovery plan, the european commission, behind the announcements, is maintaining guilty blind spots as to how our money will be used. have you learned the lessons of the first wave? last march, faced with total unpreparedness, faced with a europe without masks and medicines, faced with the economic collapse due to the breakdown of supply chains dependent in particular on asia and china, you seemed to react. we heard the words "sovereignty", "strategy" and "independence" again, words which our current of thought had hitherto been the only one to carry. but do these words lead to realities? will we finance, will we encourage relocations? mr. thierry breton said they had begun. do we have any figures, statistics, specific examples? we believe that part of the recovery should be driven by incentives for firms to recover. will this aid be conditional? will there be any compensation? will the vulnerability of our small and mediumsized enterprises be taken into account? finally, it is essential that the autonomy of the european states can be developed. we must invest in localism, that is, bringing producers closer to the places of consumption, shortening the supply chains and regaining industrial independence from our strategic activities. these are essential objectives and this recovery plan must devote all its efforts to achieving them. let us invest in our security, our future, our people and our nations. ladies and gentlemen, the recovery plan, which must serve our jobs, our businesses, our production, our citizens, our peoples, is the money of taxpayers and citizens. but you're only a citizen of your own country. the artificial citizenship of the european union, the odious citizenship of the world, the fantasies of uprooted cosmopolitans, have no political reality and should have no political reality. the european union is trying to take away from citizens, in the name of a royal prerogative, the right to raise taxes. until now, the european union's financial revenue has come from member states' reimbursement of amounts set on a fraction of gdp or from certain national taxes. perhaps, in the eyes of the european union, too much was still being given to the states, even if that was only the sheep that is being sheared. but here comes the european tax, this tax which will make all the french, all the germans, the italians, the spaniards, the belgians, all the citizens of the european countries, taxable subjects of the euromondist superstate. it is this tax, hitherto forbidden, which is being imposed in the wake of the health crisis. finally, these new citizens of the european republic will have the privilege of repaying the giant loans that the european union will raise on the financial markets because the union, like the member states, has no right to finance itself from its own central bank. adopted in the midst of a crisis, in haste, these worrying changes, which change the political status of each of the 450 million inhabitants of the european territory, represent a danger to democracy. if we want to finance ourselves, there is no shortage of solutions: public subscriptions with issuance of treasury bonds, increases in the rates of reimbursement by the states or the abrogation of the scandalous rebates granted to the northern states in exchange for the adoption of the recovery plan. according to its constitution, france participates in the european union, but it must not merge with it. ladies and gentlemen, in the direct line of industrial dispossession permitted by european ultra-liberalism and the fiscal dispossession envisaged by the new own resources of the european union, here comes the most odious dispossession: political dispossession. the recovery plan envisages making european aid conditional, not on the relocation of companies or the maintenance of jobs, but on respect for the rule of law, i.e. complete submission to the so-called liberal-libertarian progressivism. our compatriots, because they hear it everywhere, confuse the rule of law with the rule of law. the rule of law is the one that respects the right to act, the rule of law is something else: it is the state that obeys certain political principles that themselves dictate the law. but what principles? who chooses them? gianni buquicchio, president of the venice commission on the rule of law and democracy of the council of europe, said on radio on 5 november that the rule of law does not impose anything by itself and depends on what politics puts in it, that is to say what democratic choice decides to put in it, nothing but democratic choice. when the people of poland and hungary freely and voluntarily elect governments that are resistant to the euro, when they affirm their attachment to their traditions and their history, they define the political doctrine that the rule of law must apply. they have the sovereign and legitimate right to do so. and their rule of law is impeccable. when foreign governments, or even unelected technocrats, such as those in the european commission, who support other political principles, come, by means of a vile blackmail of big money, to accuse poland and hungary of betraying the decisions of their peoples, it is these governments and technocrats who violate the rule of law. such a moral authoritarianism, which seeks to impose hegemony on the conscience of europeans, is intolerable. if the people choose, the state executes: the rule of law is guaranteed in hungary and poland. if you do not like the voice of the people, you have a problem with the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not go into the merits of the agreement, but rather i will tell you how proud i am, and i am proud of two things. firstly, the opportunity to be part of a european parliament which, this time, had the courage to stand up for its convictions. in the past, this same parliament has spoken loudly, played tricks and then, very often, lowered the flag without even defending its values in the face of the council. it was not the same this time. parliament wanted a more ambitious budget, a budget that was in line with the values of the european union, starting with respect for the rule of law, and a budget that was more forward-looking, starting with the ecological and solidarity-based transition. and in these three areas, there is no doubt that the agreement reached yesterday substantially improves on the agreement reached by the council in july. of course, it is never enough. i have already heard some colleagues say that. that is true, but in the balance of political power that the elections have given us, i think this is the best possible agreement. the second thing i wanted to talk about is the fact that we live in a political world today where it seems that the ultimate recipe for success is to polarize our societies, to pit the good against the bad. i think that this logic is deadly for our societies. on the contrary, it is the logic of dialogue, the logic of compromise, the logic of collective intelligence that has enabled us to give the european union an instrument, not the only one, but a crucial instrument to address the social, environmental, democratic, economic and health challenges we face. i am proud that this logic of compromise has prevailed, and i would like to greet our conservative, liberal and socialist colleagues and to applaud their spirit of openness and compromise throughout the procedure. because the compromise we have reached is a compromise that transcends political families, of course, but also a compromise that transcends institutional boundaries. i think that this time the council has not treated parliament as a sort of accessory but has respected us. and all of that, i'm proud of.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, yesterday we concluded negotiations on the european multiannual financial framework (mff). these negotiations have been intense, or intensive, because all those engaged were fully aware of what was at stake. first of all, i want to thank all the delegations involved, the council and the commission, but certainly also my colleagues in the negotiating team – most of them are present here today – for their efforts and their constructive cooperation during those weeks. it’s fair to say that we have been working hard and we needed to work hard because we were faced with a fait accompli. the july conditions of the council conclusions were untouchable: that’s what we heard and that’s what we had to change because we thought there was a lot wrong in those conclusions. we fought for our priorities and there can be some satisfaction with what we reached or what we achieved. from the start of the negotiations, i emphasised very much that it is very important that we strengthen the future-oriented, innovation-oriented programmes like horizon, investeu, erasmus... and eu4health, of course. when drawing up the budget for 2020 we already made an important change in that direction, and that has been strengthened now. additional resources will be available for all those things that are crucial – for future jobs, future growth, future competitiveness and also, certainly for the fight against climate change. compared to the european council’s conclusion of july, we have eur 15 billion extra for these flagship programmes. and let me especially draw your attention to the fact that for eu4health, we have been able to triple the budget, and we also secured that adequate new resources are available, or will be available, to honour the considerable future burden of the eur 750 billion for the next generation eu. with the conclusion of these negotiations, the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) can finally be activated. this is absolutely important to get us over and beyond the crisis, and it’s up to the council now. we’ve heard repeatedly in recent months and weeks that it is parliament that is stalling, parliament that is delaying, parliament that is responsible for this or that. well, the short answer to these allegations is no! parliament has done what it is supposed to do – defend its priorities, act constructively and fight and try to find a compromise in a positive spirit. the train is on track. the council should make sure that it can leave the station.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the improvements made by the european parliament to the original council proposal are a positive step, but they are not enough to meet the challenges of the times and the demands and expectations of the european citizens. the pandemic and the great recession it has caused have dangerously increased already large inequalities within the european union and within the member states. that is why we need a strong and ambitious multiannual budget to support public health, a sustainable economic recovery, support employment and social and regional cohesion. the european parliament has succeeded in improving the original proposal of the council, but the agreement is far from what we originally intended. let's be realistic about this. the increase in the budget is eur 16 billion, just 1.5% more than the council's original proposal, and we have objectives ahead of us: first, the rule of law mechanism should not be blocked by a veto by mr orbán, and second, the roadmap for the same resources should be changed from 'indicative' to 'binding'. we have taken a positive step. we have a lot more to achieve and i hope the council will stick to the agreement it has signed and secure the necessary unanimity where necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this negotiation has been complex but it has certainly been worth it. we have got 16 billion more on key programmes for the future of european citizens, we finally have a timetable for creating new own resources which will bring, according to estimates, more than 90 billion to pay the costs of nextgenerationeu and will also allow us to correct asymmetries in the single market caused by those very actors who often abuse it, such as speculative finance and the digital giants. a timetable that must be respected, but also has to be accelerated for the european citizens, especially as regards the rfm negotiations; i therefore welcome the proposal by parliament to advance 10 to 20% of the total, with an extension of one year for expenditure, which is also supported by the italian government. we need a fair, rapid and effective response in the interests of all, which means reforming even those policies which have not so far allowed for full european integration, for example the stability pact, which will not simply have to be suspended but also profoundly reformed and revised.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment! we have a budget that reinforces the present and protects the future. he's been strengthening the health program. he's tripled it. the citizens are well aware of this importance. we need a vaccine. it boosts research. we need jobs: it also strengthens the investeu programme. it also protects the future, it protects the citizens. for the first time, we have a commitment with the council that the european union's own resources, the sources of financing, will be introduced in such a way that they will be sufficient to pay the debt created by the recovery fund. we have a pool of our own resources, so there are no cuts in funding and programs. this is a crucial point for the future too. the fact is that at the moment the debt costs that are in the budget ceilings are only 0.01% of the budget for seven years. that is €12.9 billion. but after 2027 the cost of debt will be 15 billion euros a year, 10% of the budget, and so it is crucial to have new own resources to protect the budget in the future, not to burden citizens at the same time, to avoid cuts in programmes that are essential and also in the funds for them. the agreement, which is binding, an interinstitutional agreement, also has a timetable for the introduction of new own resources, with a simple principle: whoever does not pay must pay. and it's only fair that the digital giants pay. it is right that there should be a financial transaction tax or a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders which will at the same time help to give our small and mediumsized enterprises a competitive edge. then we also strengthened the legitimacy of this parliament. we will be involved in the recovery fund and we have also done something historic at the level of article 122 which has not been referred to, an article which the council has used not only for the recovery fund but also for the european stability mechanism, for example. from now on, when the council wants to use article 122, parliament will be involved from the outset, with the aim of reaching a common understanding of the budgetary implications in joint meetings. we have therefore given hope to the citizens. we give member states the opportunity to make good use of the resources at their disposal. we have strengthened our own resources, but we have also strengthened democracy. it's your birthday!
mr president, commissioner hahn: the financial framework, own resources, the rule of law, the recovery plan - there are four subjects for debate! each more important. and the truth is that 2020 has been a very hard year and we needed good news and finally, it seems that november is bringing it to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what has been achieved is a radical change: by the extra 16 billion and also by the introduction of new own resources, because it was urgent to tackle this debate. we need better funding for budgets, we need it for the recovery plan and, moreover, we need to put an end to the shortcomings of a fragmented, unfair and unsound system that many take advantage of. and we also reached a historic agreement last week on the link between the european budget and the rule of law, something that was unthinkable not so long ago. we have at last a clear and workable mechanism on which this parliament has been working for years. in this agreement we have succeeded in improving the scope of application, linking it to the values defined in article 2 of the treaty. we have introduced a preventive approach, added a list of examples and, above all, included fraud and tax evasion among the objectives. and we have also put in place a system to give assurances to the final beneficiaries - that is, students, universities, researchers, ngos - that they will not be affected by the freezing of funds to their governments. and, also, we're going to evaluate the effectiveness of this mechanism in three years' time because it's a new mechanism. and finally - and we're still making history - the recovery plan. we have to negotiate the final content with the council and parliament has already adopted its position on this. i hope that the council will show the same good will as in the previous dossiers. the incredible response to these two landmark agreements shows that when we work together with the aim of building a europe that protects its citizens, things work out. so thank you very much and congratulations to all of you who have contributed to this agreement and made us proud, once again, of this project.
mr president, i would like to start by thanking this negotiating team, and particularly the chairman of this team, johan van overtveldt, for the successful finalisation of negotiations with an extra eur 16 billion for the mff flagship programmes is a really important issue. i think we also have to evaluate the roadmap for own resources, but there are still very difficult issues ahead and we have to remember that member states have to have their say on this very challenging new taxation, which is always the devil in the details. we still have to decide here in parliament about the very challenging issues once we receive the council position – whether we will keep this package or maybe employ some different tactics – because the most important thing is to allow for mff money to reach those member states that have been waiting for a long time and have been hit very hard by the pandemic.
mr president, there is always more merit in doing than in preventing. and i want to commend the role of parliament's negotiators, who have spared no effort to achieve progress, including by linking the budget to a 'rule of law' mechanism. on the budgetary side, these improvements are undeniable compared with the council's discount position. but they are still insufficient in relation to the european parliament's initial ambitions. and farmers will be the first to suffer from this budget. on the question of own resources, which was, as you all know, a strong indicator for the european parliament, of course there are innovations, but these innovations are very limited. the financial transaction tax is returned to the greek calendar, without any guarantee of implementation. and the levy on plastic, known as 'clean resource', is actually a levy paid by the member states and is not based on a tax. but the most worrying thing is elsewhere. this multiannual budget, backed by the recovery fund, raises the risk of a renationalisation of european policies. and we have to be very careful about that. finally, mr president, we wanted a budget for a world after and we have a budget for a world before which does not respond... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, in july the heads of state and government negotiated for four days and four nights and adopted their position on the budget of the european union for the next seven years. immediately we, the european parliament, recognised the good parts of that agreement and we also pointed at those areas where the agreement could still be improved. we recognised that the allocations which the 27 heads of state and government had negotiated amongst themselves for each country was something that the parliament should not challenge. but we also said that, in the european programmes – in the future—oriented programmes, those programmes which should make europe more digital, more modern, more competitive – the heads of state and government had made cuts and more money was needed. and our negotiators, after intense negotiations, have managed to achieve a very good result, and the number is eur 16 billion more for the people of europe as a result of the demands and the fight of the european parliament. is that a lot? yes, it is an amount which makes a big difference to the budgetary lines it will go to. let me just mention some figures: on the health programme, we are tripling the budget from eur 1.7 billion to eur 5 billion; the research programme, eur 4.4 billion more – and just two days ago, we learned that the european company which received european support from eu money for research is in the lead with regards to discovering a vaccine; erasmus, eur 2.2 billion more, which means almost one million young europeans will be able to have a scholarship in the next seven years because of the achievements of parliament. and we are also reinforcing the rights and values programme because, yes, we have an agreement on the rule of law mechanism, there is conditionality. those who breach the rule of law should be sanctioned, but those ngos who defend the rule of law, they should be supported. the rule of law mechanism also contains, as a demand of the parliament, one very important prerogative: it says that the beneficiaries of eu funds should never suffer if a government attacks the rule of law. there are three pillars for the eu budget for the next seven years. the multiannual financial framework i just spoke about was a good result. the rule of law i just spoke about was also a good result. and there is also the recovery and resilience facility, and here, commissioner, i can report that the european parliament is on track. this week we are giving the final mandate to our negotiating team, to the three co—rapporteurs, and one of them for the final negotiations with parliament. what will we demand? we will support the allocation criteria and the amounts for each of the countries as negotiated in the council, but we want to prolong the programme from three to four years because we now learn that corona is a longer—term crisis, and we want to make sure that money gets where it’s needed. the more money you spend, the more you need to make sure that the control is good, that there is a strong goal for olaf and for the european public prosecutor, and a strong goal for reform. country—specific recommendations and the european semester are very important because the title of the programme is ‘recovery and resilience’... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, overall, we have achieved a good deal. i can even see some historical components in it. of course, in such a complex deal one can always find flaws and disappointments. but the question that we have to ask ourselves is: with this comprehensive budget deal, are we making the eu stronger or weaker? my answer to that is stronger. especially when it comes to the post-pandemic recovery fund, the new own resources and the rule of law conditionality. these three instruments are a step forward towards more integration. they could have been more ambitious – true, but it’s also true that they could have not been there at all. the selfishness of member states regarding an outdated understanding of national interest – all this could have made all the efforts derail, as so often happens, but this has not been the case so far. concerning the content of the mff (multiannual financial framework), this is the least ambitious part of the deal. for instance, the research programme gets far less money than it should, while military spending appears too much in this budget. but it’s also true that the long-term budget has to be regarded together with the additional eur 750 billion of the recovery fund. let’s be honest, just a year ago a fund like this, with a borrowing mechanism like this, would have seemed impossible, but we had to make a virtue out of necessity, and we did it. finally, it is worth mentioning the climate and biodiversity spending targets – we in my group are proud that we also succeeded on that.
mr president, we, as the european parliament, have certainly delivered in these multiannual financial framework (mff) negotiations. we have delivered in own-resources. for the mff, we have delivered on flagship programmes and, for me, most importantly, we have delivered on the rule of law. last thursday, we reached an agreement with the council as regards the rule of law conditionality. i honestly call this a historic milestone for protecting european union values, a milestone that we have waited for years to come true. for the first time, we have established a mechanism that enables the european union to stop funding governments that disrespect our common values, such as the rule of law. most importantly, we did not compromise on the values. we made sure that the rule of law is seen in the context of all the union’s values enshrined in the treaties, such as the independence of the judiciary. with this regulation, every breach of the rule of law – any breach of the rule of law – can be covered by the mechanism, from individual breaches to systemic or recurrent breaches for which no mechanism has existed so far. and more than that, we opened the scope. we have a separate list for breaches of the principles of the rule of law. we reduced the timeline from the presidency’s proposal; we put back in the text the protection of the final beneficiaries. i really want to thank my co-rapporteur eider gardiazabal rubial and the whole european parliament negotiation team. i believe we all agree that this mechanism may not be perfect, but it is a significant improvement compared to the proposal we received from the presidency. in this connection, i would also like to thank the german presidency for very, very constructive negotiations. going back just a couple of years, there were not many who believed we could achieve this much, if anything. we, as the european parliament, listened to the will of the citizens and pushed for a real rule of law conditionality mechanism that actually works. this is a huge achievement that we can be proud of.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at an extraordinary moment like the one we are living in, faced with a second wave of the ongoing pandemic which is affecting all our countries, it is once again europe that is striking a blow and it is doing so with the agreement on the multiannual budget of the union, which for the first time will see, thanks to the right battle of this parliament, more resources than those initially envisaged by the heads of state and government. community programmes such as eu4health for public health, horizon europe for research and training, creative europe for culture, erasmus for our young people will not be cut back to pay the interest on the european public debt, because that is what the union's own resources, which have been talked about for decades, will finally be used for. no more taxes for citizens, as some would have you believe, but the chance to finally put our tax system back on the right track, with the web tax, with the financial transaction tax, with the carbon border tax. the risk that, with the extraordinary aid plan put in place by europe for economic recovery from the pandemic, the important contribution of the states would be considered exhausted and that we would have to settle for a budget even lower than the current one, that risk was high. the message from this is clear: we do not want to sacrifice the future in the face of the dramatic demands of the present, but europe is facing the present itself by looking to a future recovery which leaves no one behind and does not pass the burden on to future generations, who have a right to live in a europe that lives up to their expectations and is united by its values. yeah, his values: we are today establishing a fundamental principle, after years of failed attempts. europe is not an atm: anyone who doesn't respect the founding principles of this community can't think of holding a credit card that'll give out money regardless. this is the europe of solidarity and solidarity which today takes another step forward.
mr president, this budget deal is historic for so many reasons, because for the first time we have a rule of law mechanism. we have a tool to fight back against democracy backsliding and to make sure that eu support reaches those who need it the most, instead of disappearing into the pockets of corrupt oligarchs. but our work is not done yet. we need to continue to be the voice of our citizens who witnessed the abuse of eu funds up close day by day and who have spent years calling on europe to finally do something about it. we need to make sure that europe continues to listen to them. this rule of law mechanism is not only a piece of legislation. it is a resounding commitment that europe is ready to take action. let me tell you, action could not be more urgent. i am sitting here in budapest, where every day there is a new scandal breaking. our country, this morning, woke up to the news that the government is about to amend the constitution to make it easier to funnel public funds to oligarchs. they should be protecting lives but instead they are protecting their own pockets. and, up until now, eu action has been disappointingly slow or even completely absent. but now, we have all european institutions, all major political groups, lined up behind this commitment. now there are no ifs, no buts and no excuses. let us remember, a few years ago such a rule of law mechanism or new own resources existed only in the visions that were outlined by my fellow meps, guy verhofstadt or sophia in 't veld, at the plenary of the parliament. and i was one of those eu citizens who was inspired by them and who kept on enthusiastically hitting the like and share buttons on social media. and now, thanks to this parliament, these visions are within our grasp and it is very humbling to be present when this first draft of history is being written. this budget shows the stark difference between those who bet against the european project and those who never stopped believing in it, because even a few months ago, it was unthinkable that we will have a budget of this size and this ambition. this was the bet of european populists – they have written the eu off. they believe that european democracy is losing and the future is creeping authoritarianism from russia, china or even donald trump’s united states. but they were completely wrong. the best thing about liberal institutions is their capacity to constantly renew and reinvent themselves and this is why europe always rebounds. this is why those writing us off could not be more mistaken. we will keep on fighting and no amount of midnight legislative crackdowns will be able to stop us.
before we begin the debate, i'd like to give the floor to caroline roose before the first vote today. caroline roose has requested to be heard, pursuant to rule 159 (4) of the rules of procedure, on the eu-seychelles reports on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and its implementation (protocol (2020-2026).
i would like to call your attention to the length of the comments. the first vote will be held at 9.30 a.m.
the first item is the debate on the oral question on the impact of measures introduced in the context of covid-19 on democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, tabled by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000065/2020 - b9-0023/20) - (2020/2790(rsp)). i would like to inform the house that no debate will be held on the basis of a request for an oral question and that no greeting cards or items of order will be accepted. in addition, the contact offices of the parliament in the member states are expected to make a long-distance call.
i would ask my fellow members to give everyone the opportunity to make their comments.
before we continue with the debate, i'm opening the first vote today. we will vote on the documents on the agenda. the vote will take place from 9.30 to 10.45. all votes will be by name. i now call the vote. you can vote until 10:45. the results of the vote will be announced at 1 p.m.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the fight against terrorism, which aims to improve the effectiveness of the eu's response to the crisis and to strengthen the capacity of the eu to respond to it.
i'll close this discussion. the amendments will be voted on today, and the final vote will be held tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr cristian-silviu buşoi on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a programme of action of the union in the field of health for the period 2021-2027 (the 'eu programme for health') (com ((2020) 0405 - c9-0152/2020 - 2020/0102 ((cod)) (a9-0196/2020). i would like to inform the house that no debate will be held on the basis of a request for an oral question and that no greeting cards or items of order will be accepted. in addition, the contact offices of the parliament in the member states are expected to make a long-distance call.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the coronavirus crisis has highlighted the importance of our health and the impact of health on our lives, our economy and our society. we're in the middle of a pandemic, but we have to look forward to a new and orderly life. but this requires ambitious goals, actions and programmes. we can say that we need to put more emphasis on health care than ever before and we need to respond much more quickly to unforeseen health threats. the eu programme for health and the european health union presented by the commission yesterday can together open a new chapter in health policy at eu level. while i welcome the ambitious financial framework of the eu health programme, i would like to stress that the success of the programme requires that all member states benefit equally from it. therefore, a proportionate geographical distribution is key. finally, as a member of the european people's party, i am pleased that the european health union is a joint inter-group initiative in which my party family has been actively involved. improving the health situation in all member states is a common interest which we fully support. but we must not forget that health is a matter for the member states and that this will continue to be the case.
in writing. in 2020, the coronavirus pandemic has created an emergency situation across europe, the number of cases is increasing, and in the middle of the second wave, we can say that the virus will only end when there is a vaccine. the vaccine strategy was adopted in june this year and its main objective is to ensure that all citizens have access to high-quality, safe, effective and affordable vaccines. under the strategy, the european commission has already signed five contracts with different pharmaceutical companies, greatly increasing the chances that the end of this year or next year will have sufficient vaccine and that the coronavirus pandemic will be successfully contained. i welcome the efforts of the european commission to procure vaccines, but i am also shocked to see that some people are still looking for the cure in this emergency. the european commission is a regular guest at the envi committee meetings and has on several occasions responded to comments and questions on transparency, stressing that it is 'legally incapable of publishing information contained in contracts'. my fellow citizens! saving lives is the top priority right now, so please be responsible and work together to ensure that everyone has equal access to the vaccine as soon as possible.
a number of european reports and legislative work in the member states have highlighted the importance of addressing the lifetime of products, the problem of accelerated product replacement. the aim of the report under discussion is welcome, but some of the rapporteur's proposals need to be fine-tuned. i believe that the lifetime of products is really a matter for a set of independent stakeholders: manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, consumers and even member states. it should not be overlooked that the extension of the product life cycle must contribute to the development of an economic model based on a balance between consumer and industrial needs and environmental protection requirements. consumers are not only unhappy about the poor durability of goods but also about the inability to repair them. indeed, many broken appliances are not repaired. however, support for the repair sector could create jobs, significantly reduce waste generation and pollution, significantly improve consumer purchasing power and provide a commercial advantage for european businesses. so it is important that we act with thought, not just with irrational arguments, but with a balance of facts and facts in this important matter. we are now witnessing the fourth industrial revolution, powered by digitization and unfathomable amounts of data instead of steam engines. while the first industrial revolution introduced the world to the phenomenon of waste, the fourth has the potential to eliminate it, or at least to reduce it substantially. the union should therefore support circular business models, as what is waste in one industry may become raw material in another. it is possible that a company's waste, by-products, cannot be rebuilt in its own value chain, but can be taken up by companies in other industries with minimal changes. i am convinced that by rethinking the way in which products are produced, marketed and consumed in order to extend their life, conditions can be created which can favour a revival of european market activities.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. confidence in electronic commerce by both citizens and businesses is an essential condition for making the digital single market more attractive and dynamic. for a long time, all signs pointed to the need to modernise certain consumer protection rules to meet current challenges. i am glad that the commission has seen the need for change and that this has led to the presentation of the new consumer strategy discussed today, which i can only welcome. i believe that more effective enforcement of the rules is a more effective means of redress. a deeper understanding of consumer rights can increase consumer confidence and security. however, rules can only be effective if they allow consumers to have easy access to redress in the event of infringement and if national authorities are able to enforce that right. the strategy seeks to address the important consumer protection issues that arise today. markets are once again developing and changing rapidly, mainly due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. the pandemic has increased consumer demand for transparency, sustainability and convenience. the biggest benefits will be gained by companies that earn the trust of consumers, spare no effort to invest in a seamless and hassle-free shopping experience, and prioritise consumer health and safety. i urge the commission to pay attention to consumer safety, in particular the cybersecurity aspects of consumer protection, and to continue to monitor consumer markets to identify emerging problems.
mr president self-evaluation and self-reflection are important, especially when we're trying to evaluate elections. however, i would caution against accepting a report with a strong ideological content under the guise of self-reflection. this report is intended to provide a model for a federal european union. it is a question of the final outcome of the debate on the future of the european union. i think that this carries very serious dangers. it is indeed important to talk about the future of the european union, but i do not think that the emphasis should be on institutional issues. and this report is a kind of foreshadowing of the debate on the future of the union. if we focus on institutional issues, we inevitably get drawn into ideological issues. we'll never understand each other. we should be much more pragmatic and focus on the issues that matter to european citizens: our place in the global order, competitiveness, demography, jobs - these are real issues. but being a transnational list, or indeed a top-level system, and so on, are all phony questions, unnecessary institutional questions that will fundamentally divide us. it carries risks. here's to being realistic. i think that when we are facing difficulties in our own work, when the european parliament is struggling to establish the legitimacy of its work, we should not put forward questions that are completely out of touch with the reality of the day. we have to serve the interests of the citizens, we have done that, and i think there are areas that need to be emphasised. unfortunately, this report is not a reflection of self, but an ideological document with dreams.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i appreciate your valuable comments and questions raised during the debate. it is clear that we share the same objectives. we want eu trade policy and investment policy to effectively support a quick and sustainable economic recovery to create opportunities for european businesses and maintain the stability and predictability they need to facilitate green and digital transitions, and to ensure that trade is responsible, fair and sustainable in line with our eu values. i look forward to further exchanges on these issues with the european parliament. i will come back to the committee on international trade to present the new communication on trade and investment policy in early 2021, and i very much look forward to hearing your views.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 november 2020. the president of the commission
in writing. the common commercial policy is one of the main pillars of the european union. the conclusion of trade agreements with third countries is of paramount importance for economic growth and job creation. however, products imported from outside the eu are offered to eu citizens which do not meet the safety requirements laid down in european regulations. if we stick to the common agricultural policy, we can see that farmers in the european union will have to face new environmental requirements, while imports from non-eu countries will continue under old trade agreements, where quality standards are not always guaranteed and respected. the covid-19 pandemic crisis has shown that some medical and protective equipment from outside the eu did not meet quality standards. the european union must remedy this situation in order to be able to contribute to the fight against current and future crises. in an increasingly globalised world, the european union needs to have the appropriate tools to manage trade relations on product quality with non-member states. the interest of the european citizen must be paramount. this is why a legislative framework and more stringent controls at the eu's external borders are needed.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the escalation of tension in vanosha following the illegal actions of turkey and the urgent need to resume negotiations (2020/2844 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the house that there will be no 'catch-the-eye' or 'blue card' questions in any debate at this part-session. remote interventions are planned from our liaison offices in the member states. we shall therefore begin our debate with a statement by mr josep borrell, vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, whom i would like to welcome and thank for his presence.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let there be no doubt: respecting the status of varosha, as set out in the relevant united nations security council resolutions, is of paramount importance. our heads of state and government have made this point. the european union foreign ministers are following the situation closely, and the united nations security council has held a closed hearing to the same effect last month. we are all deeply concerned about developments on the ground. on 13 october, i issued a declaration on behalf of the european union on a call for the immediate reversal of recent actions and respect for the relevant united nations security council resolutions. like the united nations, the european union holds turkey responsible for the situation on the ground. these recent events around varosha - when i was young it was called famagusta - including president erdogan’s visit and his statements, come at a time when attempts are underway to create a space for dialogue on cyprus settlement issues and on the wider eastern mediterranean. we are passing this message clearly to our turkish interlocutors. i have also passed it personally to the new turkish-cypriot leader in a telephone call i had with him immediately after his election. this is the time to support united nations secretary-general guterres in his efforts to resume the cyprus settlement talks. spreading distrust and more contentions will help no one. on the other hand, the united nations peacekeeping mission in cyprus must be given full freedom of movement in varosha to monitor the situation in accordance with its mandate. mr president, honourable members, you can be sure that european union institutions are fully committed to a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem and to the reunification based on a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation with political equality, within the united nations framework and in line with the principles on which the european union is founded. we stand ready to play an active role in supporting these negotiations and finding lasting solutions. for us, a stable and secure environment in the eastern mediterranean and the development of a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship among all partners in the region, bilaterally and multilaterally, are in our strategic interests. as you know, the european council will assess the situation in the eastern mediterranean and our relations with turkey in december in light of the mandate to pursue preparatory work on the text set out in the european council conclusion on 1 october. to finish with this short intervention, mr president, honourable members, you may therefore rest assured that varosha / famagusta is and will remain high in our collective agenda, in order to help ensure that the united nations security council resolutions are respected in full by all actors.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i’m speaking on behalf of my colleague, kris peeters, who could not make it. with the opening of varosha, relations between turkey and the eu are reaching a watershed moment. incident after incident, step by step, the turkish president continuously moves away from european values and standards. eu—turkey relations are at a historic low point. this unilateral and illegal move not only inflames eu—turkey relations, but it also negatively affects the lives of the cypriot population. it fuels the tensions and division embedded in the society of the cypriot island. this violation of the un security council resolutions will never contribute to a comprehensive solution. it only serves the internal politics of the turkish president at the cost of the cypriot people. a two—state solution will never solve the conflict. the opening of varosha is not just a standalone incident. two months ago, this european parliament condemned turkey’s illegal activities in the continental shelf of greece and cyprus. earlier, we condemned the turkish military operation in north—east syria. recently, we witnessed how the turkish president used the murder of samuel paty in france for his own political goals. the list of incidents is long, and it seems that it has not yet come to an end. two days ago, there was the irini mission and a german ship that was prevented from searching the ship. i think we need a stronger mandate for irini. perhaps you could work on that. a clear signal from the eu is needed. therefore, i urge the european council to consider well—targeted measures while continuing the dialogue.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, tensions in the eastern mediterranean have been high for a month, and the partial reopening of varosha fits into this very regrettable pattern. turkey’s unilateral actions in the region highlighted the old paradox about how fragile stability really is, but it also reminded us that we have a responsibility to preserve it. the resolution we are about to adopt will contribute to this. without meddling in the affairs of a sovereign country, our job is to demand that international agreements are upheld, that the rights of local citizens are respected under all circumstances. the people of cyprus, regardless of their background, mother tongue or identity, should not be held hostage to president erdoğan’s nationalist and revisionist playbook. this is an agenda that we have come to witness far too often, an agenda of conflict and division designed to fan the flames of hate instead of looking for solutions and building consensus. and the eu must send out a strong signal to turkey that violations of international law and violations of the sovereignty of eu member states are not tolerated. this is why we are calling on the council to consider targeted sanctions against turkey if president erdoğan refuses to settle the issue through constructive dialogue, because cypriots on both sides of the country deserve much better than this.
mr president, i tend to agree with the assessment that the opening of varosha by turkey and any reference of erdoğan to a two-state solution only contributes to the increase of tension and must be reversed. but let’s not make the same mistake as a few weeks ago when the conflict in nagorno-karabakh was on the agenda of the european parliament and when some meps thought it’s a war of religion or some clash of civilisation yet others mixed in their feelings about erdoğan or turkey into the subject. let’s realise the historical context of this conflict that underlies 46 years of division on the island and also the nature of this conflict. there are two indigenous peoples – turkish and greek cypriots. any solution that leaves one or the other out or disenfranchised is not a solution and is a grave mistake. there is a federal solution of reunification to this problem. it is high time to dust off the annan plan, rejected by the greek cypriots in 2004, when a divided cyprus was allowed to enter the european union.
mr president, the enforcement of our common values and norms is not up for debate. therefore, we must equip the european union with the means to constantly make its members respect these values and comply with these norms, otherwise europe will never be strong. this is a quote from the ep manifesto of fidesz from the year 2009 and i agree with every word of it. however, since it entered government in 2010, orbán has created division in hungary and, as a trojan horse, is dividing europe from within, destroying its values. only unity can defeat division. i personally have come a long way to understand the importance of working in unity. this is why, as a conservative, i work together with social democrats and liberals of my country to bring change to hungary. i am not asking fellow meps from across the continent to do our job in hungary. we will take care of that. but what i do ask you is to be consistent in following your core values to deal with this plague. we can cure it together.
madam president, we have said it so many times in this chamber and i will say it again: we have a chance for a historic budget, a budget that demonstrates vision, courage and solidarity, that reforms our own resources after five decades, and that is ready to take on the climate crisis. it is also a budget which has a rule of law conditionality mechanism. after so many years, the eu is finally demonstrating that it is ready to take action against democratic backsliding and stop behaving like an atm for corrupt autocrats. frankly, it’s a disgrace that it has waited so long. let me remind you that the rule of a mechanism does not require unanimity and the parliament has no intention of taking even one step back. every intention that works in the opposite direction is a historic mistake and is a sign of political weakness. we will not succumb to this. the fact that prime ministers orbán and morawiecki got so hysterical about this probably demonstrates that we are on the right track because, if the rule of law is as much in order in these countries as they claim, then why do they hate their citizens so much to deprive them of the recovery money in times of crisis, alongside so many other millions of europeans? let’s make something clear: this is not an east-west divide, it is not about a bizarre global conspiracy theory, it’s not an anti-hungarian coup and it’s not an anti-polish machination, because what can be more pro—hungarian or pro—polish than standing up for the money that belongs to the citizens to get where it really has to be - to the small businesses, to the local communities - and not into the pockets of autocrats or members of viktor orbán’s family? it is not about christianity either. last time i checked, stealing is against the bible too, so let’s keep that in mind. one last thing, let me say to those on the right in this house and to the conservatives in the council: please stop appeasing european autocrats. it’s not working and you are making a huge mistake here. please stand on the side of the people and on the side of european values. after so long, you have a historic chance to do that. (applause)
in writing. the coronavirus outbreak and the ageing of the european population have highlighted the fact that member states are facing a growing health risk, which is also a much greater burden for society. nor can we ignore the fact that today we are witnessing a growing rigidity in the pharmaceutical supply chain, a declining share of the european pharmaceutical industry and an extreme dependence of european healthcare on production and imports from third countries. this leaves you vulnerable in certain areas, which in severe cases can lead to medication shortages. it is also important to note that the pharmaceutical industry cannot be compared to other industries and that medicines cannot be compared to other commodities. supply disruptions affect people's lives and quality of life more than any other product. this is why i believe that the european pharmaceutical strategy is of the utmost importance, and if properly implemented, it could provide the european union with a unique opportunity to strengthen europe's role in global pharmaceutical manufacturing. although there are still many questions and information gaps in the strategy, there is good reason to support the implementation of the objectives of the strategy and the efforts to strengthen european pharmaceutical manufacturing.
president. - the human rights situation in algeria is deteriorating in many areas. we see it in journalism, but we also see it in religious freedom. christian churches in algeria are discriminated against. recently, the tizi ouzou provincial government decided to allow almost 200 mosques in the region to reopen as covid19 is declining there. but churches remain closed. churches are also officially boycotted. algeria has a special government commission for non-muslim institutions. it was created in 2006, and that committee hasn't met at all since. churches did apply for permits to hold services, but this committee has been turned into a shadowy body that no longer meets. churches that do hold services are severely sanctioned. last august, a few months ago, a court in tizi ouzou ruled that churches closed last year cannot reopen. and it's not just about christian churches, it's also about the communities of ahmadis, baha'is, atheists and jews. my central question in this debate this morning is: what will the high representative do to address this deterioration? i am really looking forward to an answer to this particular question, although i see that there is some discussion going on now - that is perhaps about the answer, that could be. but i would like to hear an answer on what the high representative is going to do to change the situation in algeria now.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the repression of freedom of expression, the persecution of political dissidents, the continuing police violence and the arrest of journalists: all these are systematic violations of human rights and are on the agenda of many countries, unfortunately also in algeria. 200 people were arrested from march to june this year alone for expressing their opinions or demonstrating for their opinions. the european parliament must give its support to courageous people, and we must send clear signals that we are standing up for their rights. this is part of our agenda today. when we demonstrate for these values and make sure that they are not forgotten in europe, we also contribute to freedom, democracy and the rule of law far beyond europe's borders. these values must be upheld and protected in difficult times, especially now that we are facing a pandemic.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we express our support for the algerian people who remain united and peaceful in the face of the adversity of a regime which has been repressing, arresting and harassing for months. and the pandemic has made it worse. as we have done and continue to do for the pro-democracy movements in belarus or hong kong, we have a duty to take the necessary measures for the defence and protection of human rights defenders in algeria. this week, political opponent karim tabbou reminded in his open letter to mr macron that it is the algerian people who must be supported and not the regime rejected by it. the promises of the algerian head of state, mr tebboune, for a new, more democratic and freer algeria have remained a slogan. the revision of the constitution should have been a guarantee of openness and appeasement, but it failed both in its consultation process and in its referendum process. all indicators are in the red today in algeria: arbitrary arrests, intimidation, mistreatment of journalists. many of the activists and journalists who are now convicted and/or imprisoned were not asking for anything but deep reforms for the rule of law, transparent governance, a free press, an independent judiciary. we call for the immediate release of these journalists, khaled drareni and all prisoners of conscience, for an end to the judicial harassment of political opponents, but also for the eu-algeria association agreement, based on respect for common values such as the rule of law, to be respected by all the european institutions, the commission, the council and the parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, with this resolution, the european parliament says it loud and clear: journalism is not a crime, activism is not a crime. khaled drareni is in prison for livestreaming and documenting a demonstration. he was doing his job. hundreds of peaceful political organisers are in prison right now. many have received heavy fines and many are being continuously harassed by the authorities. yacine mebarki, abdellah benaoum, mohamed tadjadit, abeldhamid amine, abdelkrim zeghileche, walid kechida, brahim laalami, aissa chouha, zoheir kaddam, walid nekkiche, nourredine khimoud, hakim addad, kaddour chouicha, jamila loukil, mohamed baba-nedjar: behind these names are patriots who care enough about their country and about their future to engage in activism, to organise and to call for change. i would like to express my solidarity with the brave people of algeria who stand up and speak up. journalists, ngos and party activists are under attack around the world. ‘enemies of the people’, ‘traitor’, ‘foreign agent’ ‒ we have all heard these terms far too often. we have to call it what it is. it’s a global democratic backsliding, worsened by the covid crisis. but let’s not forget that right here, in the european union, a colleague of mine, a party activist, was recently detained by the police for criticising the government in a facebook post. this resolution is a clear call to the algerian authorities: release political prisoners and stop their harassment. but we need to do better for our citizens right here as well.
madam president, by adopting a strong resolution concerning the minority safepack initiative, the european parliament as co-legislator can finally – with considerable delay – establish a legal framework to protect the largest minority across europe: indigenous minorities exceeding 60 million people in total. and we can do that with the support and at the behest of over one million of our citizens that signed the european citizens’ initiative, the most democratic and powerful instrument our community has developed. i am convinced that peace and stability in post-war europe is not only due to the reconciliation of european nation states, but also to a reconciliation between the majority and indigenous minorities within our nation states. territorial integrity of modern states is protected by political convention and international law. now it is our duty to legislate to safeguard each and every minority, regardless of where they reside, and grant them rights – a key to their prosperity and our civilisation’s stability. therefore, i implore you, all my colleagues, regardless of which political groups you represent, to support this historic initiative.
i have to say, madam president, the protection of minorities and the safeguarding of their rights, in particular their linguistic and cultural identity, are among the eu's fundamental values. the fact that there is still room for improvement in the eu at times is rightly pointed out by the minority safepack citizens' initiative. it unites over a million europeans behind it, and they have joined together and formulated a catalogue of demands to the eu commission - this is called political participation, and we should value this in itself! the minority safepack also deserves our support in terms of content, because the citizens' initiative goes to the heart of the european union. the european union's main exception is not the single market but its linguistic and cultural diversity. this eu would be many times poorer without these minorities. if we are concerned about preserving our cultural and linguistic diversity, about preserving our motto 'united in diversity', then we should also be concerned about protecting minorities. in this sense, we should support this joint resolution by a large majority and thus send a strong signal to the european commission. it should present concrete measures and legal acts to promote and strengthen the rights of minorities, in particular as regards language learning, including minority languages, and cultural participation of minorities. in this context, i think it is not surprising that the call for improved cross-border access to online media libraries is re-emerging. we have failed in the last legislature to make changes to the existing legal framework to support linguistic minorities in accessing culture and information in their own language. this is in dire need of repair.
madam president, please. we often say that we are all equal as citizens of the european union, but unfortunately, the experience of many of us is that some are more equal than others. the sad reality is that many national and ethnic minorities in europe are now disadvantaged compared to the majority citizens. this is the situation that hungarians abroad have faced for generations. the eu has also been working to improve the situation of roma in europe. i urge you, colleagues, to listen to the voice of the european citizens and to raise the protection of minorities to a european level. i ask you not just to talk about it, but to make it happen, because the state of european democracy is attested by the way we treat our minorities. so i'm asking you to take action. thank you very much.
in writing. we live in a world where we look at water as an unlimited resource. but that is not the case. that is why i consider today's debate on the water legislation and the vote that follows it to be of the utmost importance. in many continents, including europe, the lack of drinking water is a persistent problem, with croplands drying up, water sources becoming polluted and water sources becoming depleted, all of which are causing irreversible damage to our societies. furthermore, water-related problems are perhaps one of the greatest threats to economic and sustainable development. it is very important to recognise that water is essential for the citizens of the union and that in the light of climate change and environmental degradation, the management of water pollution, the reduction of freshwater biodiversity loss and the strengthening of resilience to the effects of climate change are more relevant than ever, and access to adequate quality drinking water is of paramount importance in reducing risks to public health. it is time we saw in him the source of our common future. water is the source of our life, so let's treat it responsibly and with respect.
the following point is inserted after the word 'declaration' in the title of the annex to this decision: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following point is inserted after the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: the commission has also received comments from the union industry.
i'll close this discussion.
the following point is inserted after the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
madam president, colleagues, let me help to resolve a dilemma for all those here who might follow angela merkel’s advice and think that a policy of appeasement will make viktor orbán retreat, consider the rule of law and accept european values. clearly he won’t because his illiberal agenda is based on eternal conflict, corruption financed by eu funds, and demolishing democratic norms in hungary. orbán will continue to do so even if the price is hungary ultimately leaving the european union. concession is a sign of weakness which will only bolster the confidence of all those who want to tear the european union apart. a compromise might save face for a german eu presidency and the retiring german chancellor, but it will certainly have long-lasting and damaging implications for the european project. thus, given the current circumstances, i suggest that the european parliament turn without delay to the european court of justice for an express ruling on the rule of law mechanism so that it can be effective from the very beginning of 2021.
president, we are getting a 750 billion euro crown relief fund. in fact, that fund is illegal, because where is the legal authority? it is based on article 122 and that is for disasters like forest fires and floods, not for the mega transfer of funds, unconditionally. what do receiving countries do? they're spending the money on tax cuts in italy, a basic income in spain, a delay in pension reform in france. what does that have to do with corona? the treaty prohibits the european commission from borrowing money on the capital market, see article 311. but the commission is doing it anyway. if it lacks powers, the commission's legal service will make up a story that it can. what does this mean for the netherlands? the netherlands is pledging 245 billion euros to keep the euro alive. the dutch court of auditors estimates that the total amount of the funds is eur 245 billion. that's 32,000 euros per household, and few can afford that. but the dutch government is keeping that amount quiet, as if nothing were going on. but something is happening and it is time for the citizens of the netherlands to know what financial sword of damocles is hanging over their heads.
madam president, this agreement is a good step, but on the rule of law, it can easily turn out empty, because the rule of law is at risk in europe not only because of hungary, poland or spain. what undermines the rule of law are double standards and a lack of political courage in the council and the commission. member states like spain know how to take the money and get away with abuses of human rights. spain has a delinquent supreme court that engages in politics and openly defies the european court of human rights. but the eu is blind to it. on monday, the supreme court decided to take arnaldo otegi and other leaders in the basque country to a second trial for the same accusations. they have already been convicted, they have already served six years in jail. the strasbourg court ruled that they did not have a fair trial. so what’s the response? another trial. if spain can behave like turkey, it’s because the eu – you the council, the commission – allow it. double standards in brussels. your double standards are destroying the rule of law in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen, president michel, in the midst of the second wave of the pandemic throughout europe, today's vote is a sign of hope for the citizens of europe. with the green light for the multiannual budget, the next generation eu and the rule of law regulation, we can build the recovery of economies from new foundations that are more environmentally and socially sustainable. there is a european response to this economic and social crisis, where many taboos have finally been broken, such as that of common indebtedness, backed up by new own resources of the union, which are not new taxes for citizens, but the possibility of putting our tax system back on the right track. this is the victory of the house of the european people, the parliament, which has never failed to keep track of an ambitious budget, adapted to the times we live in, and of the conditionality of european funds and respect for the rule of law, because we stand together when we share the same values of freedom and democracy. but this is above all a victory for those who believe in europe and not for those who, even here, wanted to destroy it and today applaud the result. only together can we respond more strongly to the global challenges we face.
madam president, to understand what it means to have a rule of law mechanism, let me describe this special groundhog day in which we are stuck in hungary. you open the news and there is a corruption scandal. eu funds never arrived to our poorest communities, but ended up with a spouse of a fidesz politician or maybe even the son—in—law of mr orbán. but as hungary’s top public prosecutor is a former member of fidesz, there was no investigation. it’s been going on for 10 years. since the beginning of our mandate we raised these cases in letters, at hearings, at the plenary, and the answer we got was always the same: the eu is deeply concerned but we don’t have the tools to take action. come next january and the rule of law mechanism, this excuse is gone, and this is a victory for this parliament. we fought for this with unity and resolve and, yes, many of us are disappointed with the council, which yet again failed to send a clear message. maybe it’s my optimism as a new lawmaker but i still believe this time is different and the difference is this parliament – what we have achieved together and our commitment to keep going. if the commission fails to act, we will call out their dereliction of duty. if court challenges are used to delay the procedure, we will request an expedited procedure. we have the tools in our hands and we will use them. this is the message of our resolution. (applause)
the following point is inserted after the entry for the united kingdom in the annex to implementing decision 2014/709/eu: i'll inform the house that no debate will be held on a call-in basis, and no greeting cards will be accepted. and in light of the virus situation, i'd like to ask anyone who would like to speak without a mask to come forward to the pulpit.
madam president, please. we are going through some very difficult months and we need to be patient until the coronavirus vaccine is available to all citizens of the european union. but we're seeing the light at the end of the tunnel. researchers, pharmaceutical companies and the european medicines agency are working to develop and approve an effective and safe vaccine against coronavirus. but it does raise some very timely questions, both old and new, about the rise of vaccine and immunization resistance, about the effectiveness and safety of the vaccine that's about to be developed. i think that anti-vaccination movements can greatly influence and hinder the success of future vaccinations. the solution would be effective education, evidence-based health education, but unfortunately we have very little time, so i think it is very important to prepare an eu strategy for the coronavirus vaccine, which i hope will include a comprehensive communication strategy.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first of all, let me congratulate the colleagues in this house, in the commission and in the council for updating the european anti—fraud office (olaf) regulation and legally fine—tuning the working relations between the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) and olaf. now we have made the legal background ready for their effective functioning in the future. this is truly a great accomplishment. however, at the same time, in this discussion about the effectiveness of european anti—fraud efforts, let me highlight the very simple but still crucial concern: still insufficient funding. this may sound technical, but for my constituents it’s a painfully obvious problem. according to the latest report by olaf, financial irregularities affect 4% of payments in hungary. this is 10 times the eu average. but whenever i cite this number to my voters, they very often ask the question: wait a minute, only 4%? then i explain that the capacity of olaf only allows them to monitor a small fraction of payments – 5% or 10% – but in fact it is possible that this number is much higher, we just don’t know, and the fact that we don’t know is in itself very problematic. now imagine that this already underfunded institution now has to administer eur 750 billion in recovery funds. how can they do that? we have also launched the european public prosecutor’s office with really ground—breaking powers but, also in eppo’s case, inadequate staffing and funding is still a problem. let’s be clear: protecting our financial interests has costs. that’s a fact. but this cost is an investment in the future. it’s an investment in recovering this money, and spending more on anti—fraud operation is actually saving us money. so, let’s consider this in the future and let’s fight with every method possible for higher funding for these institutions in order for them to protect our european financial interests.
madam president, please. the adoption of the budget is historic, and it is historic in many ways, because in addition to the enormous responsibility of planning and adopting each budget cycle, this year dramatic circumstances, the global pandemic, have also been a factor. the eu has had to adopt a package of aid of unprecedented size in its history alongside the multiannual budget, and in the meantime the european union has taken a huge step towards protecting our common values and its finances. this was an acceptance of the rule of law conditions attached to the payments. an effective eu investigation authority and prosecutor's office is essential for the member states to act in accordance with eu law and its fundamental values. this is especially true when we negotiate our common finances, when we use our common money. in recent years, unfortunately, we can cite countless cases, such as hungary, poland or the czech republic, where governments and heads of government have trampled on eu values, undermined the rule of law and stolen eu funds, while at the same time holding their own against the eu. but that's over now. finally, the rule of law mechanism, olaf and the eu public prosecutor's office can work together to stop unrestrained theft. the european parliament and the council shall be informed of the progress of the work of the eppo. there is a need to extend olaf's investigative powers and it is also important to strengthen olaf's powers in, for example, the procedure for persons subject to investigation. strengthen the protection of procedural guarantees by establishing a procedural control office. the rule of law mechanism and the effective cooperation between olaf and the prosecution service will give european citizens peace of mind and make their money, their finances and the money of europe safer. a successful cooperation between olaf and the prosecution service is worth making a serious effort to achieve. just as it is a great pleasure that the rule of law mechanism has been created after a lot of work, it is also important that we establish this excellent cooperation between olaf and the european public prosecutor's office so that it can effectively protect european values and european interests.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i was in egypt, also as a member of the delegation of the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs. it is a great country and it is in our interest to stabilize it so that the egyptian people choose their future in their homeland rather than seeking happiness in europe. of course, the european union has instruments to exert pressure, such as humanitarian and charitable aid and the european investment bank. it's about financial pressure, in a nutshell. we can use it to ensure that human rights are respected, and also - and this is worth saying - the rights of christians, because it has often happened that the authorities have looked on discrimination against christians without any reaction. i appeal for solidarity with our brothers in the faith in this country and respect for human rights in egypt.
a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. human rights are an important issue for the european parliament. who else but us should raise our voice for those people around the world who cannot defend themselves and stand up for their rights? but i also want to make it very clear that today's debate is about a concrete initiative - the egyptian initiative for individual rights - where three activists have been imprisoned, are in pre-trial detention and are obviously being prevented from doing their work - their important work for civil society, for the whole of egypt. and it is our duty as members of parliament to draw attention today once again to the fact that we support such initiatives. but i want to make it very clear to my group that we also see the importance of egypt as a partner. the european union sees egypt as a partner, especially in the fight against terrorism. and i want to make this very clear here: in addition to the justified criticisms made by my predecessors and the sharpness of the resolution, i would like to point out - and i am quite conscious of bringing this aspect here - that there are also positive aspects to cooperation with egypt. this partnership is the key. but a partnership cannot be blind. we cannot be blind in one eye and seeing in the other. that would not be appropriate, nor would it be appropriate for the european union, and that is why it is quite clear that the epp here is demanding that human rights be respected, that those wrongfully detained be released and that the rights of the people in egypt be guaranteed by the authorities. i would just like to say that we too have similar problems within europe and at our borders. i am thinking of the discussions and demonstrations in belarus and i believe that it is our duty and our obligation to be very precise here. what do i mean? article 144, which is the basis of today's debate, deals with cases of violation of human rights. and i would like to say for my group that the length of the resolutions and the balance of the resolutions are of course important if we want to raise our voices together, if we want to send a strong signal across all the groups. i would have liked this resolution to do the same. egypt has the potential to serve as a bridge to the arab world and to africa, and it is up to us to promote a functioning civil society, a functioning interplay of economic systems and, as european institutions, to push ahead as much as we can. and i think that we must pay particular attention to respect for human rights here - that is our duty, above all as members of parliament. but we must not forget the balance here too. and i think it is very important to put the partnership in the common interest at least as much in the spotlight as all the other efforts and all the other problems that have been rightly and very clearly raised today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, overall, the eu has very good relationship with our southern neighbour, egypt. the eu has displayed a strong commitment to continue its common work with egypt in areas of crucial importance for the egyptian people such as environment, energy and water management. nevertheless, it is because of this common work that we must express our concern over the deteriorating situation of human rights in egypt. the egyptian government must comply with all national and international legislation when it comes to the protection and advancement of human rights. without the impartial rule of law, you cannot have well-functioning civil society, especially in countries where we hear of repeated reports of intimidation and prosecution of civil rights activists, journalists and other ngos. i join the calls on the egyptian government to pursue domestic reforms to protect civil right activists, journalists, as well as their families. this is clearly needed, as is evidenced by egypt’s poor record of media freedom and the high number of imprisoned journalists. the fact that the director and several senior managers of the egyptian initiative for personal rights have been arrested in cairo are of significant concern. therefore, the eu and this house will strongly convey a message to the egyptian authorities that this is unacceptable. egypt is an important neighbour and partner but our friendship cannot be sustained if the significant and legitimate human rights concerns are not addressed. for that reason, we appeal to egypt today to heed our petition and to address these immediately so that our good relationship can continue, otherwise it will go backwards.
madam president, when egyptian youth mobilized for weeks in tahrir square in january 2011, they were seeking freedom from a police state, from an oppressive regime that left them with no hope, no prospect for that future. ten years later, unfortunately, only the face of the egyptian regime has changed, while the reality of human rights is deteriorating day by day. while president al-sisi has received the honors of some european states, the egyptian population is being subjected to repression unprecedented in the history of modern egypt. detention, executions, enforced disappearances and torture are now commonplace in egypt. since mr. al-sissi came to power in 2013, the country has plunged into a total repression. journalists, lawyers, trade unionists, activists, human rights defenders: ngos estimate that egyptian prisons hold more than 60,000 prisoners of conscience. recently, senior officials from the egyptian initiative for personal rights were jailed, simply because they met with european diplomats in cairo. the european union and the member states must act in a united and determined manner to combat human rights violations in egypt. the newly accepted sanctioning tool must be able to be used against those who are violating human rights in egypt today. the european union must stand with the egyptian people and not with the egyptian regime.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i missed my chance to take my second semester exams. honestly, it's one of the problems that worries me the most. i would like to send a message of affection to my colleagues from the universities of bologna, granada and seville. this has not been written from a home, from a house, but from a prison, from the prison of tora. it's patrick zaki, erasmus student, who's been in prison for 300 days. he was stopped when he was going to see his parents. it could be my son; it could be my daughter; it could be any of your daughters. i speak of patrick zaki because it is the best way for us to see today the face of the al-sisi regime, a regime that is increasingly dark, more cruel, that uses repression and that considers erasmus students on gender issues, such as patrick zaki, bloggers, singers, journalists, human rights defenders as enemies of the state... this has to stop. it's not acceptable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial, must always be respected. i would like to express my concerns over the arrest and targeting of the egyptian initiative for personal rights (eipr) and, generally, over the systemic targeting of human rights defenders by the egyptian authorities. as many of my colleagues have done, i call for the release of all eipr staff. however, i would also like to note that egypt remains an important partner for the eu in many areas. unfortunately, the joint motion for a resolution neither recognises this, nor considers the severe terrorist threat from radical islamist organisations that the authorities are trying to tackle. additionally, the joint motion calls for sanctions that are too harsh, imposing monitoring measures coordinated by the eu, as well as for a complete review of all our existing relations. thus i believe it goes beyond its original purpose. therefore, my group won’t be able to vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, "i saw regeni in that office 13 and there were also two officers and other agents. as i entered the office, i noticed the iron chains with which they bound people. he was half-naked on the top, he was wearing torture marks and he was babbling in his tongue, he was delirious. he was lying on the ground, face down. i saw him handcuffed to the ground with handcuffs". these, according to the main eyewitness, were the last frames of the barbarously shattered life of giulio regeni, an italian citizen and a european citizen. this is the treatment that thousands of activists are subjected to every day in a country where in recent years 3 000 people have been sentenced to death, more than 60 000 arrested and imprisoned on the basis of flimsy evidence and mass trials, including patrick zaki and eipr workers. how long will you remain silent while a country with which we have political and commercial ties is transformed into a reign of terror? our credibility is at stake. al-sisi must respect our principles, not flaunt our medals. we have a sanctions regime that can be triggered in case of severe human rights violations. we cannot have double standards. if not now, when? truth and justice for giulio regeni!
madam president, civil liberties are under systemic government crackdown in egypt. the senior members of a highly respected human rights group, karim ennarah, mohammed basheer and gasser abdel—razek, were arbitrarily detained and continue to be harassed by the authorities. patrick zaki is an erasmus student, a participant in our very own flagship programme. he was tortured and continues to be in police detention. giulio regeni was an italian journalist, tortured and murdered, and justice has not been served until this day. and there are so many more cases. we are way past the point of deep concerns. we have just rolled out the eu magnitsky act. it’s time for high representative borrell to finally put targeted sanctions on the table. let’s review our eu aid programmes to make sure that no human rights abuser is propped up with eu taxpayers’ money but that we support civil society directly. finally, every time we sit down to talk to egypt over any issue, these people’s stories and their human rights belong right there at the negotiating table.
in writing. in the context of the uk's withdrawal, it is important to note that one of the main objectives should be to ensure a smooth transition, particularly in the area of judicial cooperation and other areas of a legal nature. cooperation between the two countries covers civil law, family law, commercial law and criminal law. there is a significant hungarian community in britain, so this affects trade, judicial and other relations. we're connected by many threads. it would be more reassuring for both parties if the agreement in question were to extend cooperation in criminal and civil matters accordingly. it is important that judicial cooperation in security, law enforcement and criminal matters and judicial cooperation in civil and family matters form an integral part of the agreement, as it is in the paramount interest of both parties to guarantee legal certainty for citizens. good judicial relations and mutual trust are in the interest of both parties. i would also like to emphasise that michel barnier has successfully represented the interests of the european union and its citizens throughout the withdrawal process, and his work is commendable.
and now the second round of voting today. we will vote on the documents on the agenda. the vote will take place from 1:30 to 2:45 p.m. the voting procedure shall be the same as in previous rounds. all votes will be by name. i now call the second round of voting. you can vote until 2:45. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m.)
