madam president, i think what’s happening in australia is certainly a disaster, but there is nothing natural about it. i think we have to acknowledge the fact that the devastating bushfires raging across australia are directly connected with the lack of action and the climate denial of the australian conservative government. the best advice and the best support we can give australian citizens is to acknowledge that point. it’s not an accident when australia remains supportive of coal, it’s not an accident when federal and state governments continue to subvent financially the coal industry when they’re the largest exporter of liquefied natural gas, and it should be a wake—up call to the rest of us. an effective climate policy is a disruptive policy. it’s one that requires changes and one that should not be taken at the behest of industrial lobbyists.
madam president, to all those affected by the fires in australia, i offer my deepest condolences. there's been a lot of damage, and these fires are definitely the result of extreme weather. we know that this is not just happening in australia, it's happening in america, it's happening in europe. my colleague mentioned the fires in portugal, in sweden. it is therefore important to strive for climate change mitigation while also ensuring well-organised protection and rescue. we have faced this problem in europe, and units that act together in such an event can respond more effectively to these extreme events, whether it be fires, floods or other extremes. it is also important that we do not become isolated in this effort to combat climate change, and that we do not, for example, close down livestock farms in europe and import beef from australia and brazil. that would definitely be the wrong signal.
madam president, your honour, you say that the european union is ready to help australia in this crisis of catastrophic fires. it's not enough to wait for the australian prime minister to ask for our help. clearly, australia is not a part of this dynamic. many people have died, thousands of homes have been burned, over a third of the animals in the affected areas have already died, and the koala is seriously endangered. in slovenia, we social democrats have presented initiatives to the european commission and the government for international solidarity in the fight against the fires in australia. we propose to offer free civil protection and firefighting capacities for the containment and suppression of fires and we call on the commission to draw up an immediate plan of joint activities. let's not waste any more time, let's send the firefighters from the union to australia to help. we need to mitigate the effects of climate change everywhere and if we want to lead on climate action, we need to change our way of life, our management of resources and our relationship with nature and all the living things on this planet, and above all, we need to take responsibility and increase our collective ambitions.
mr president, let us first of all express our sympathy to australia and our appreciation for all those firefighters who are working day and night to get this job done. it's horrible what's going on, and it's actually affecting all of us, big and small. my daughter came home this week and said, "mom, we have to adopt one of these koalas". actually, my daughter's struggle is a question to europe: offer all the help we can offer. firefighters, satellite imagery, we need to do everything in our power to assist australia. and for the critics: it should be obvious, of course, that climate change has something to do with this. so we need to put more money into the green deal. we need to make a commitment to the paris climate agreement. we must ensure that the resolution we have adopted here on the emergency situation is implemented and that we take the necessary measures. we owe that to australia, and to everyone in the world.
madam president, climate change does not create bush fires, but it can and does make them drastically worse. australia is one of the world’s top coal producers and exporters. it is the world’s number one exporter of liquefied natural gas, and its government gives $29 billion in subsidies to the fossil fuel industry on an annual basis, according to the imf. when prime minister scott morrison was challenged on his country’s dismal performance in dealing with climate change, he said: ‘we don’t want job-destroying, economy-destroying, economy-wrecking targets and goals’. what he is saying is that the economy is more important than the future of the planet. europe says that it won’t do trade deals with people who behave poorly and are not interested in keeping the paris agreement, and god knows, australia were abysmal in madrid. so please, we should do no deals with people if they don’t change their behaviour to meet the goals of the paris agreement.
- the chairman. cross-border crime, as we discussed today, knows no borders. this requires an organised, pan-european approach, and good cooperation. the reasons are very different. we've heard about corruption here today, drug trafficking, human trafficking, prostitution. on the other hand, we have a very specific case at the border between sweden and denmark, where denmark has closed the border because of crime, which is often the result of organised groups, which are also the result of uncontrolled flows of migrants. we must be seriously aware of and recognize and respond to every problem that arises. politics is about not only the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, but also recognizing the problem, not hiding it under the carpet and responding to it. otherwise, people lose trust, and when politics loses trust, other, more extreme processes in society take place. so let's not turn a blind eye to the real problems and let's respond to them and we'll be able to solve this big problem and have free movement of people in europe.
madam president, this debate reminds us that security is a priority objective for all, but that extreme precautions must also be taken to avoid it being used as an excuse to achieve other objectives. coordination yes, but with all those who can provide information, knowledge and resources. because in the recent history of organised crime in europe, we have seen how not sharing information, how marginalizing security organisations that have the competence, knowledge and resources, has created serious problems and cost human lives. this debate must therefore serve to deepen coordination and to create a genuine european intelligence system. the commission also intends to encourage the development and application of more effective technologies to combat organised crime. but we must not exploit the trip, as we see some reactionary forces doing here, to criminalize everyone who comes to europe. that is the most direct route to hate speech and the best way to undermine the main objective: that there is real and effective collaboration to delimit individual responsibilities and enforce the law.
madam president, in ireland the problems of organised crime have nothing to do with the free movement of people, it has nothing to do with the migrants, who play a very positive role in our society. since the banking crisis in 2008-09, we’ve actually seen what we would describe as ‘legalised’ organised crime in our banking sector, and in particular in the bad bank called nama that was set up to deal with stressed assets, but sadly the authorities have turned a blind eye to serious malpractice. when it comes to illegal organised crime in ireland, it is very much built around the drugs industry. sadly, the war on drugs has failed, just the same as the war on the criminalisation of the purchase of sex in ireland has failed. for the life for me, i can’t understand why europe still doesn’t harmonise its approach to the drugs industry, because you are only enriching the criminals, and it isn’t working.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i want to welcome what the commissioner had to say here this evening. i’m glad we’re all on the same page – because we need to be if we are to get action in relation to this issue. if we are serious about gender equality here in the european union, if we are serious, for example, about the sustainable development goals (sdgs), if we are serious about the european social pillar, then it is essential that we tackle the gender pay gap. equality matters, and this is a very serious inequality that has lasted for far too long. economic equality is critically important because without equality in earnings, in what people live on throughout their lives, social equality cannot be guaranteed. you have described the pay gap that exists: the 16%, and more in some places. of course, we also have the pension pay gap, which is very, very serious. the current gender pension gap in europe stands at over double the gender pay gap – at 35.7%. just think of the implications of that for individual women, for children and for their families as they grow older. they just do not have access to the same money to live their lives. the consequences of both the gender pay gap and the pension pay gap are very serious. they cost our society. they cost because they perpetuate child poverty, they perpetuate skills shortages, and of course, there is an enormous cost to the economies of all our countries because they are underusing women’s skills, and there is a serious barrier here to women’s full participation. we know all this. the question is: what we are going to do about it? what we see already is quite a number of countries taking action. i welcome what you say about the variety of issues that can be dealt with if we take this seriously. pay transparency is critical. we’ve seen already the impact of greater transparency, for example, when it has been seen in media jobs recently. we’ve got to have very strong implementation measures to make sure that this issue is dealt with.
mr. chairman, i'm sorry to hear that. i hope to say that europe is the most socially orderly continent. we can set an example for the world. we know how to take care of a variety of vulnerable groups, we're the largest humanitarian aid donor in the world. we are rich in this sense, and therefore we must help to give a decent life to those who cannot afford it themselves. and, of course, the homeless. a decent life for me is a roof over my head. that's the basics, and some people can't afford the basics. that's why we have to help them. they were pushed to the margins of society by life. i support the idea that individual countries, each according to their own capabilities and expertise, should try to help the homeless. and we can share best practices with each other. but it is the commission, of course, which can, by means of an integrated approach, encourage the member states to take the best course. at the same time, i want those who receive and benefit from this social assistance to behave responsibly towards it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nine years ago i had the first homeless strategy adopted. i was a social housing reporter. every year, i ring the alarm bell, and the governments are asleep. where are the emergency meetings? where is the money to be collected as soon as possible? the result is a terrible thing: the increase in homelessness, 70 percent in 10 years. in france, one homeless person dies every day, in england 59% of the homeless are children. you said we don't have numbers. eleven million people are living in a shelter that is not decent, and that is a scandal. eleven million people, men, women, children, are suffering in their flesh. you tell me that we need a more welcoming policy, but the welcoming policy of the member states is just expensive, ineffective but above all inhuman. we are not in a hurry, commissioner. my dear colleagues, i call for a wake-up call, for a little humanity in this parliament. it is time to join forces to help the weak. it is time, commissioner, to say that the commission will take responsibility and call on the member states, instead of always favouring the richest with tax exemptions, to impose real investment in social housing. europe has been able to mobilise for the banks, so it is high time that it stood up to the plight of the most vulnerable. commissioner, europe cannot be governed by indifference.
mr. chairman, i have to say that the housing situation is indeed very dire, even catastrophic, and in many states it is getting worse. housing costs are rising dramatically, and the availability of housing is actually deteriorating significantly for all segments of society. social rights in the european union seem to have ceased to exist or are fundamentally undermined in this respect. we are seeing major storms in berlin, munich, and many other cities, including prague, where the availability of housing is growing very rapidly, and is particularly unaffordable for the younger generation and the socially disadvantaged. what about it? i think that it is necessary to implement support measures in the labour market, of course in the housing market and to achieve cooperation with municipalities. this is a task for the government, for the european union, but also for the municipalities. the homeless situation is a failure of the european union, and we should be aware of that.
mr president, you will have to bear with me; i have a throat infection so i have to speak quietly and slowly. while there are issues at present between the cities of london and brussels of which we shall not speak here, they are both among the richest regions of the european union, yet in westminster underground and in place du luxembourg, parliamentarians step over homeless human beings. we should be ashamed of that – because this is a massive failure of public policy. it is not about migration; it is about a failure to invest in homes. i represent one of the richest regions in the european union – south-east england – and i would say to anyone in that region who thinks it could never happen to them: it can. if it happened to you, or your son, or your daughter, or your grandchild, or your parent, how would you wish them tret? as a criminal? as a vagrant? as an addict? in modern developed societies, the right to a roof above your head should be a right of every citizen, yet homelessness is everywhere. putting it right starts with the right attitude, and here i want to praise brighton and hove council and their adoption of a homelessness bill of rights, and it ends with the recognition that social cleansing of our cities is immoral and that when you don’t build homes, you get homelessness.
mr president, in ireland there are 4000 children without a home. homelessness impacts greatly on women, on children, among young people and migrants. and sadly, i don’t believe that our irish minister for housing, eoghan murphy td, and his fine gael colleagues, understand the urgency of this and the depth of the crisis in dublin, in ireland, and in cities around europe. mairead mcguinness spoke earlier about a slight reduction in rough sleeping. what she failed to point out is that we have seen more than a doubling of homelessness in ireland in five years, over a doubling amongst women and a quadrupling of the amount of homelessness amongst children. that needs action. and there are ways to solve this. it shouldn’t mean going from the streets into a hostel, into a hotel, into a homeless hub and, if you’re lucky – 10 years later – into a home. what it does need is housing first! and the lesson from finland and the lesson from vienna, from austria, of the housing first model, of the cost-rental model, shows that if you build homes, if you provide a roof over people’s heads, it works. so i want to see the european commission start a convention on homelessness to bring attention to the problem and then learn these lessons and work with the european investment bank and the european central bank to provide the funding to solve this crisis. we shouldn’t have homelessness in 2020.
mr president, almost exactly a year ago today, a dam of toxic waste from a mining company, vale, collapsed in brumadinho, killing 272 citizens in brazil. that area is still suffering. today, as we meet here, protesters gather, and have been gathering since christmas day, to protest and demand protections from the likelihood of other dams bursting, causing other similar consequences. we in europe are culpable for this. it was a german company that built the dam. it was a german company that falsified a certificate of stability, and it is german investments and european money which has backed it up. as we meet – and the european investment bank has promised another eur 100 million of investment in brazil – we have a responsibility to these people to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice, and that all of our investments are met with the binding legal business and human rights treaties in order to ensure that such catastrophes are not done and carried out in the name of profit and in our name.
madam president, the prime minister mentioned a priority being securing europe’s borders, but i have to question how croatia can lead the european union in areas of best practice in terms of human rights compliance in relation to migration and asylum when there are so many issues to be addressed regarding the documented violation by croatian security forces of vulnerable migrants and the illegal push—backs at the bosnia-herzegovina borders. these are clearly a flagrant disregard of european union asylum law, the charter of fundamental rights, the refugee convention. it was highlighted obviously in the disgraceful arrest of two nigerian athletes in zagreb. you know, the most concerning part for me is that when we raise these issues at the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe committee), the european commission said that eur 6 million of taxpayers’ funds were used for a monitoring mechanism in this area, to the unhcr and the croatian law society. it turned out these organisations ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, just to say at the outset, i’m speaking primarily in the context of the island of ireland and irish citizens living on the island of ireland and also uk citizens living on the island of ireland. in that context, i think we have to accept that we can’t negotiate or compromise on citizens’ rights. we can compromise on financial services, on agricultural products, on trade and commerce, but the very essence of the european union and the very essence of the irish republic is citizens’ rights, and we have to ensure they are upheld and maintained. we have a common travel area between the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland and the republic. but, mr barnier, what i need to ensure is that when the uk becomes a third country, that citizens’ rights are protected and maintained. very simple examples: the mutual recognition of qualifications, for example, could have profound implications on the island of ireland, people unable to work in one jurisdiction on the island. so, for all these reasons, we have to ensure that citizens’ rights are an integral part of this withdrawal agreement and the future relationship. there can be no compromises on people’s rights and entitlements.
mr president, the crazy decision of the us to carry out the illegal assassination of qasem soleimani and abu mahdi al-muhandis, and others, is just the most recent testament to the fact that the us is the most reckless, destabilising and dangerous political and military force on the planet at the moment. the us and their allies claim to be fighting a war on terror whenever they drop bombs and kill people. here they have taken out some of the people who have done more to fight isis than anyone else that we know. they have been asked to get out of iraq, are they going to get out of it? are they going to recognise the democratic decision? they claim to have brought democracy to iraq; are they going to respect it now? commissioner, do you not agree that this region will be a safer place when the americans are not in it? you talk about iran not respecting the nuclear agreements; do you ever ask any questions of israel? what in god’s name, why won’t europe show a bit of courage and stand up to the terrorism of america?
madam president, 70 years after the universal declaration of human rights, we live in a world where respect for these rights is more at risk than ever. many reports by human rights activists are alarming: conflicts around the world are depriving millions of people of their basic rights. the savage globalisation that places business above human rights is sacrificing entire populations on the altar of the profit of a few companies and shareholders, not to mention the rise of authoritarian regimes that carry their share of repression, discrimination and withdrawal in the name of a so-called national identity. europe is not spared, and yet it remains the territory representing this value of human rights, but for how much longer? it is our duty, our responsibility, our credibility to be the global driving force for the defence of human rights, in a coherent way, of course, that is to say in all our policies: whether they are commercial, diplomatic, whether they are in our association agreements, we must give priority to the issue of human rights. human rights must remain the political marker of europe. mr borrell, you can count on us to support you in this difficult but noble task that you are given today.
madam president, mr comín, in democracies, such as my own, in spain, human rights are worth their guarantees, and compliance with the law and respect for the courts, which respect the rights of citizens, is the best guarantee. when his colleague violated the legal order, he attacked the constitution and the rule of law in spain, he attacked and violated the rights of the catalan citizens, whose obligation as president of that community he was obliged to respect and protect. today, having fled from spanish justice in order not to be held accountable for his actions, he sits in that seat, relying on the legal system and the rule of law that he did not know, seeking impunity, not immunity. that is the defence of human rights by the democracies within the european union.
madam president, first of all i want to congratulate the rapporteur, isabel wiseler-lima, on this report. because as colleagues have said, this is a most comprehensive report, it’s gold standard in terms of human rights. the question is: how will it be responded to how, will it be implemented? it has been sent to a whole variety of important organisations and individuals. let’s make sure that governments and ourselves implement the very best practice when it comes to human rights. many human rights are under threat with the rise of authoritarianism. and we must also call out the macho leadership that we’re seeing around the world. women’s rights are in danger. let’s look to home, make sure that the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women that seven countries have not ratified is actually ratified. and let’s take a lead role in eliminating fgm around the world. let’s hear all our political leaders speak out around this. and let’s make sure that we talk about what is happening to human rights defenders and take action in europe to protect them.
i have to say, madam president, article 2 of the eu treaties states that 'the values on which the union is founded are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights'. these human rights do not apply only to eu citizens, but to everyone without exception. but what good are they to a refugee who is stuck in bosnia and herzegovina and who has been pushed back illegally by croatian border guards for the tenth time, beaten, abused and robbed? his human rights are literally being trampled underfoot. the european union is increasingly putting human rights and refugees at the centre of its activities, and its foreign and development policies are being subordinated to the protection of refugees. this undermines the eu's foundation of values and its credibility in the global commitment to human rights and democracy. that is why we must take a stand: for the inalienable right to asylum and for the respect of the human rights of refugees in the european union and in the world.
madam president, mr high representative, i would like to add one comment to the debate. the doctrine of human rights is very much debated in this parliament. we have a very frequent debate about how human rights are trampled and violated in different countries of the world. i have one request. this report, which will be adopted tomorrow, should be a guide for you on the practical steps we need to take in eu foreign policy. we are still calling here for us to be more firm towards those regimes that violate human rights and the freedoms of citizens, not to provide them with such economic aid and to treat them differently from our partners, to states where human rights are respected and respected. i ask you very much that this material, this document, be reflected in your real activity, that it be reflected in the eu's foreign policy and that we give money and economic support only to those who are willing to respect human rights.
madam president, this report reiterates and supports the european parliament’s resolution passed on 3 may 2018 with regard to the protection of migrant children. last week in the uk, the house of commons rejected proposals to maintain protections for child refugees in the redrafted eu withdrawal agreement bill. it is a betrayal of britain’s long-standing commitment to humanitarian support, especially to the most vulnerable. i’d like to pay tribute to labour lord alf dubs, himself a jewish refugee, who led the campaign on this issue, and i hope the house of lords rectifies what has been a huge mistake made by the government. if this is what global britain looks like post-brexit, it sends out all the wrong messages as to who we are and who we want to be as a nation. whether in or out of the eu, we must not abandon our commitment to human rights and internationalism, and as a child rights campaigner i ask all those in positions of power to remember alan kurdi and all the other child refugees who died whilst we turned our backs.
madam president, despite many efforts, the human rights situation in the world is not improving. the scale of crimes and atrocities committed against children, women, ethnic minorities and religious groups, among others, are difficult to grasp even for those with extensive years of work in the field of human rights promotion and protection. the question of whether our assessments, reaction and response to the violations that have occurred are the best possible remains open. for example, we’re too slow to react to the worsening situation in cambodia, where attacks on the political opposition, civil society groups and independent media have intensified. human rights violations also take place by our borders: in belarus, we see no improvement in political processes, including freedom of assembly and association, free speech, and independent media. the political opposition remains suppressed, and civil society is sidelined from ongoing negotiations towards losing the countries’ sovereignty to russia.
madam president, people say that human rights are under threat. yes, there is an element of truth to that, but sadly we have lost our moral authority to be talking about human rights the way we used to. the very fact that we ignore the rule of law so often around the world today does not do anything for our credibility to talk about human rights; the very fact that we don’t oppose us sanctions in places like iran, syria and venezuela – because those sanctions hurt the poorest people in those countries the most and europe should stand up against it. we talk about trade and human rights being mutually enhancing; well in saudi arabia they cut off heads on a regular basis but i don’t see europe having any problem trading with them. i don’t see us having much of a problem dealing with israel despite the breach of human rights and international law in palestine on a regular basis. we are not being consistent in how we behave.
rapporteur. – madam president, with this year’s annual report on the common foreign and security policy, i believe that we have once again identified the major issues our european union is facing, and we also outline a possible way forward. the first two weeks of this new year have reminded us that the european union’s security environment is today more volatile, more unpredictable, more complex and more ambiguous than at any time since the end of the cold war. let me underline the three main findings of my annual cfsp report. firstly, multilateralism is at stake. in such challenging times, where multilateralism is increasingly called into question, we – as a european union – must take a firm stand against this trend, putting multilateralism at the core of our efforts to prevent and resolve conflicts. in the current setting, the cfsp must effectively promote our interests and values in our neighbourhood and around the whole world. we should take advantage of the new political cycle of our institutions to build a stronger, more proactive and strategic european union. secondly, reinforcing the european parliament as a pillar of the cfsp: during the past legislature, this european parliament has played a prominent role in mediation in the peaceful resolution of protracted conflicts. our efforts were successful, for instance, in ukraine and in north macedonia. these efforts, especially in the framework of the jean monnet dialogue, should remain a priority in the upcoming years. we should also strengthen our role and oversight and scrutiny of the cfsp – but also, of course, of the eu external instruments. in this context, we must aim for a more strategic approach and greater coherence, consistency and complementarity between the external financial instruments and the common foreign and security policy. thirdly, strengthening the cfsp to counter global threats: i am, for example, convinced that qualified majority voting would make the eu’s foreign and security policy more effective and speed up the decision—making process. the need for unanimity is keeping us from being able to act credibly on the global stage. on the eu’s common security and defence policy, we need to strengthen capacity on eu— and member state—level to act autonomously, as well as to foster partnerships with regional organisations. the announcement by the commission president to build a genuine and operational european defence union within the next five years is welcome. finally, no single eu member state can respond effectively to today’s global challenges on its own. we must continue to promote our european values whilst staying committed to a rules-based international order and economic cooperation. the european union is a major player when it comes to diplomacy, trade, development cooperation, humanitarian aid and – step by step – also in the field of security and defence. our european union should act strategically by using its wide array of policies and instruments to respond to the challenges in our direct neighbourhood and beyond. the time has come, as the eu, to take our destiny into our own hands and embrace our role as a fully-fledged sovereign political and economic power in international relations, and i can only commend what the high representative/vice president has announced in the first weeks in office. i think he has a huge support here in the european parliament. finally, i would like to thank all our colleagues for their good contributions – especially, of course, the shadow rapporteurs – for a very good and fruitful cooperation.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr high representative, allow me first of all to express my sincere thanks to all the fictitious rapporteurs who, irrespective of their political groups and our sometimes sharp differences, have all sought to make substantial contributions to this annual report. this has led to some rather passionate discussions, but i take this as a sign of interest in a subject which has not always aroused so much interest in this house. i believe that there is room for a realistic assessment of the defence situation and for pragmatic proposals for improvement. i have in any case drawn up this report with that in mind, although it has been amended a great deal. the realism of the observation is to emphasise the profound deterioration of our security environment. our whole neighborhood is in crisis; i will not go into detail about the conflicts in syria, libya or ukraine, the jihadist attacks in europe itself, the horn of africa, the sahel and the boiling middle east. the crises are simultaneous, increasingly interconnected and all unfortunately reflect the bleak image of a europe that is relatively powerless to stop them. the extreme volatility of the situation on our doorstep should shake our certainties and our comfort, because even our alliances and partnerships are less reliable. recent examples in the middle east illustrate this dramatically. many hope that this confusion is just a bad time to pass, an unfortunate parenthesis. maybe, but maybe not, and to be honest, i'd even be tempted to say, probably not. it seems irresponsible to me today, as a european, to think that our security will continue to be ensured for ever by others, without a substantial effort to assume our own responsibilities. the realism of the report is therefore also that of a relative european failure to weigh in on events, and we should be able to come together around pragmatic recommendations so that europeans can finally act and not just express indignation, condemnation, regret and comment. pragmatism is about being ambitious without entertaining vain fantasies. the member states are and will remain the key players in defence. but pragmatism also means recognising that none of them, not even the most active and ambitious - and this is a frenchman telling you this - can cope with the enormity of the task alone, and you illustrated this again yesterday in pau, mr high representative, with regard to the sahel. the european union must therefore be able to take action to ensure that the european union's defence policy is not disrupted by the threat of nuclear weapons. the real question in this debate is relatively simple: are we europeans content to be mere spectators, surrogates, or even beggars for international security in the face of global and regional powers without complexes, or do we finally want to be actors and give ourselves the means to do so? i know how much debate the concept of strategic autonomy is generating. i would just like to highlight two non-exhaustive points about this concept. first, it is obviously an ambition to be built and not an absolute reality today. secondly, being autonomous does not mean ending alliances or partnerships, quite the contrary, but being able to assess crisis situations for oneself and, if necessary, to respond to them alone by providing a response in line with our interests and priorities. the fact that our security priorities as europeans are sometimes not exactly the same as those of our non-european allies is not a shameful disease, it is not a break, we must be able to accept it. at the beginning of this mandate, there is a lot of talk in the house about the climate emergency, the environmental emergency and the social emergency, and it seems to me that it is also urgent to consider our strategic stance and to work on it in a credible way.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, thank you very much, mr mcallister and mr danjean, for the work you have done. we are preparing these reports on the cfsp (common foreign and security policy) and the csdp (common security and defence policy). let me start with the cfsp report. first of all, i am pleased to see that we continue to put these values at the heart of our action. we are and must continue to be a power based on principles, and multilateralism is a rules-based international order, it is the basis of our foreign policy. i am also pleased that you recognize that we need to be more assertive. we now have to prove that we need to be more assertive with respect to libya, with respect to almost everywhere, in terms of the problems we are facing. we need to be more assertive in protecting our vital interests. we live in a world of power politics and we need a truly integrated foreign policy that combines the power of member states with the coordinated mobilisation of our instruments, and as your report states, we need to strengthen the links between internal and external policies. this has been said many times. it is good to repeat it; it would be much better to implement it. i welcome the emphasis you put on the importance of securing adequate financial resources. for external action under the next multiannual financial framework, we are going to see soon if it is possible or not. in particular, we need to preserve the envelopes for the neighbourhood and sub-saharan africa in the new proposed instrument. yesterday i was with the president of the french republic and with the presidents of the five saharan countries, and the issue of the resources we need in order to help them face their security problems - which are our security problems - was on the table. i wonder if the answer we're going to be able to give to them the next day is good enough. partnership: you rightly point out that for everything we want to do, we need partners. we want to be multilateral, but one cannot be multilateral alone. to dance the tango you need two; to be multilateral you need several. we need to link up with like-minded allies, with the regional blocs like the african union or asean, and above all, the united nations. take, for example, climate change. the council asked me at the last meeting of the european council to develop a strong climate diplomacy in order to ensure that our climate ambitions can be shared in partnership with other states in the world, because if not, our efforts will be completely useless. we must engage with others in order to ensure that they are on board in our climate action in order for it to be really successful. credibility: it's clear that we will lose credibility as a geopolitical power if we cannot deliver stability and security in our immediate vicinity. if we are not able to solve or help solve the problems of libya or the western balkans, it's going to be quite difficult to convince anyone that we are a geopolitical power. it is clear that we must step up our support to kenyan sovereignty and resilience. on kosovo, we have not been able to travel to kosovo because kosovars do not have a government, but even if they do not have a government by the end of next month, we will have to travel to kosovo and serbia in order to reiterate our commitment to the european perspective for the entire region. we have some complicated relations with some of our other neighbors. recent activities by turkey affected the security and the interests of our member states in the wider region and are of real concern. the central mediterranean is undergoing an extraordinary change from a geopolitical point of view, and some actors like russia and turkey, which were not showing up there six months ago, are now taking the lead in trying to solve this problem. you have to pay special attention, you are right, to the southern neighbourhood libya, iran, iraq which are protagonising the debate today. we have been at the forefront of efforts aimed at de-escalation, but in the end, who is sitting at the table with sarraj and haftar in order to try to reach an agreement on the ceasefire is not the european union, it's russia and turkey. africa: let's talk a lot about africa, a continent of both promises and challenges. the council mandated the high representative and the commission to present, by the june meeting, a comprehensive action plan for africa, and believe me, from now until june there is not too much time to build this comprehensive action plan with africa, because we cannot do it alone. we cannot have a plan for africa without the africans. it started in the sahel, and president macron yesterday called a very interesting meeting, asking the g5 countries of the sahel to come and talk about what we can do together, much as we will do the same thing in our college meeting with the african union in addis ababa next february. latin america: latin america is burning, from chile to mexico. there are a lot of great difficulties there, and we should work to strengthen our cooperation. to pursue our interest in asia, which remains stable and prosperous, perhaps the most stable and prosperous region in the world today. tomorrow we will be travelling to new delhi to attend the raisina dialogue and strengthen our strategic partnership with india, and also we will do that soon with china, to prepare the summit. csdp: the csdp report, which addresses the impressive development of the union's common security and defence policy on the challenges that lie ahead. here the urgency is clear. in a geopolitical world, the eu has no choice but to strengthen its capacities to protect itself and become a more credible security provider. the beating heart of the csdp today are the 17 missions and operations deployed in different regions beyond our borders. and i have to salute the enthusiasm and devotion of the thousand men and women who are serving the european union flag in sometimes dangerous circumstances. in your report you point out, rightly, that we need to address persistent structural issues that are affecting our missions. we need to make sure that the csdp missions become more robust, both in terms of human resources and of their mandate. i welcome the political support for the creation of the proposed off-budget european peace facility, designed to help our partners to take care of their own security by building their own capabilities. this is important when its again, for example, in the sahel countries. taking a greater role in the world requires developing what is called a strategic autonomy: some words that are sometimes conflicting, and not everyone understands them in the same way. this is a sensitive term, but in this context it essentially means that we have to strengthen our capacity to act with partners where possible, alone if necessary. and your report highlights that this does not mean that the european union is abandoning its partnership; on the contrary, it will make the european union itself a stronger global partner, and it will also benefit nato, because a stronger european union and a stronger nato go hand in hand. let me highlight the importance of the permanent structured cooperation and european defence fund. you, the parliament, will have to decide the amount of resources devoted to this defence fund as much as to the peace facility, which will be the cornerstone of our future csdp projects. many things can be said about what we are trying to do, and your report covers them very well. i can say that i agree a lot with everything you present in this report. i just want to stress the importance of the new frontiers of artificial intelligence, which will have geopolitical implications by empowering both competing state and hostile non-state actors. we need to remain in the lead, both in the global discussions on norms and rules as well as in the development and application of all technologies to promote our own security. i'm sure europeans are not aware of how important this issue is: what are going to be the consequences of the developing of artificial intelligence technologies for our security in the future to come? not a long-term future; the next five years will be decisive for that. space and maritime are other strategic sectors where we need to ensure our coordinated use of different european union internal and external policies and instruments. here i would like to highlight, as your report does, that the european union satellite centre will require relevant structural funding, especially from the european union budget, to maintain its contribution to our actions. it's becoming quite impossible to believe that we can develop actions all over the world if we are not able to observe how the world is. we have a satellite center that cannot be lacking resources in order to fulfil its mission. in conclusion, the stakes are high and the challenges formidable. we need to keep the momentum on strengthening our common security and defence policy, and there are some problems in our immediate neighbourhood and the immediate future that will represent some proof of the capacity and the willingness of the european union member states to play this role. libya: let me give this example. just imagine that there is a ceasefire, and in berlin we get an agreement in order to build a political solution let's imagine. but any ceasefire can't last a couple of weeks without a strong monitoring procedure. are we going to be ready to do so? that's a question that we'll have to answer in the near future. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the only demand that this parliament can make of our executive is that we finally do our own homework when our immediate interests are involved. in libya, for example, i don't think we really have different interests. mr president, i would like to ask you to ensure that all the eu governments are on the same side, and that can only be the side of the internationally recognised government. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. in the sahel, please push all eu governments that are in a position to do so to contribute to their engagement at the french level and ensure that the funds for the defence fund and military mobility are not cut. this is very important. to end on a positive note, we should take advantage in realizing that we have an island in the east of asia where we have seen a democratic election in a chinese society. so let us congratulate the people of taiwan for the election that they have held: a sober and democratic one. that is a wish that we should have for the whole of eastern asia.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to express his views on the report and to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs and security. first of all, i would like to thank mr mcallister, our foreign policy rapporteur for this report, for the work he has done and with whom we have been able to work closely. these two reports are based on the absolute recognition that the world facing europe today, which europe is facing, is different from the one that has developed over the past decades. competition between great powers is threatening our way of understanding the world: a world based on rules, on multilateral structures, that believes that cooperation is better than competition and that rules go hand in hand with cooperation and dialogue. in the face of this, europe must decide to take its own destiny into its own hands. and so we are making a strategic bet, on our autonomy, on our sovereignty as a continent, to have our own capabilities to defend ourselves and assert our interests and our values. it seems that europe today is a herbivorous continent in a carnivorous world. in this context, what it must do is to mobilise sufficient resources, to have new capabilities, also in the field of defence, to strengthen its alliances, especially with africa and latin america, and to coordinate its efforts, all of them, those of the states and those of the european union. and in this respect the high representative has a key role to play for the next five years.
on behalf of the renew group. – madame president, for the european union to be heard in global matters and be taken seriously, it needs to have one voice. this includes the areas of foreign policy, development cooperation and foreign trade, as well as security and defence policy. quite a lot has been done in the csdp compared with some years ago, but more needs to be done, and this idea of common eu defence needs to be taken seriously by all eu member states. with eu strategic autonomy being the goal, the eu can and should greatly contribute to the strengthening of european and transatlantic security. the eu must work together with nato and like-minded partners. to have stronger eu defence does not mean undermining nato: a stronger eu is a stronger partner for nato, be it by bringing about more european military capabilities, investments in defence technology invention, or by some other means. taking into account the size and capabilities of the eu, it is only elementary that it should be able to defend itself. also for that reason, very good cooperation with nato, the us, canada and others is extremely important. but to be able to defend the principles of international law and multilateralism that form the basis of the eu defence and security dimension in its international relations, the eu must have also a military capability. so the eu, in its defence policy, must aim to have everything from military capabilities in personnel and technological capabilities to an effective defence industry. this requires enough financial contributions and overcoming political disagreements, otherwise we will not have a say in matters next to big players like the us, china, russia and other rising powers. in addition to the concept of eu defence and its substance, there are quite a few very imminent challenges we are facing that demand our attention and need to be addressed already.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the acquisition of global political capability, as jean-claude juncker has called it, is central to our common foreign and security policy. and i agree with you, mr borrell, that we must not rest in the status quo, we must be prepared to take on new responsibilities. however, we must be clear about the direction we are taking, namely to defend our own values and interests without falling into the trap of pursuing our own policy of great power, without wanting to become a third superpower, but also to avoid being torn between the two existing ones. to do so, the eu must be a pillar of a multilateral order and resist developments that would make the international rule of law a nostalgic memory. the report by mr mcallister is a good report. thank you for that. i would hope that we could also get along much better with our colleagues in the national parliaments in this direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i was among that small group of conservative meps elected in 1999 to try to change the direction of travel of the european union and to reform it, so as to better reflect the real concerns and aspirations of our citizens: mainly for a common market, rather than the federal obsessions of a small political elite, and to protect our national sovereignty. nothing, perhaps, is closer to the bone of national sovereignty than our national armed forces – so increasingly, of course, the eu wants to bring them under its control. i also recognise that the top strategic priority for both the uk and the european democracies must surely be the continued, wholehearted commitment of the united states to our security and defence through nato. my concerns on both these points were the reason that i have led the opposition to csdp – what some might call the eu army – throughout my time in this parliament. the reports before us advocate qualified majority voting on matters which should be national prerogatives. we find that mr danjean’s report is all about ‘strategic autonomy’. basically, this means ‘separate from the united states’. it gives little thought to the implications of this; it pays lip service to nato; it devotes one paragraph to the united kingdom, the leading military power in europe; it seeks a european defence union – at a stroke, the separation of europe from our transatlantic allies, otherwise what would be the point? the lessons of the past have not been learned. we all need to enhance our national military capabilities. we all need to be more capable and willing allies. we all need to do better in explaining the need for strong and credible defence to our citizens, but that democracies need to stand in solidarity in the great nato alliance and not build alternative structures that will deliberately lead to division. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – mr van orden, you have not always been with the majority on these issues and we have not shared many points of view, maybe with the exception of our view on nato and the need to strengthen transatlantic cooperation. will you still allow me to hope, as this is your last plenary session in this parliament, that you will be at least a little bit nostalgic when you think back on the work that we’ve been doing together?
blue-card answer. – may i first of all say that i accepted your blue card, which i am very happy to do, and i was astounded in a previous debate in this chamber so that i had two fellow countrymen who refused blue card requests from me. i will leave this parliament with some degree of sadness, i have to say. i spent 30 years as a soldier, i’ve spent 20 years of my life here as a politician, and we’ve achieved some good things together. but there is this whole tendency now, which is accelerating with the prospect of british departure and which is taking things in thoroughly the wrong direction, and i am very concerned about it.
madam president, the clean stuff: the two reports are preparations for new wars by the european union. in the name of multilateral autonomous action and the new 'geopolitical committee', with or without nato, the interests of european groups are being systematically supported in their competition with their american, chinese and russian counterparts. more imperialist interventions in third countries are announced, nato is being increased in equipment and beyond, while the european union's military mechanisms are being multiplied under the umbrella of the european defence union, such as pesco, the military evaluation of the card type, the defence fund, the european neighbourhood mechanism, the provocative pseudo-mechanism 'mechanism for peace', and the european security council is being promoted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the european union is also concerned about the arbitrary turkish-libyan pact. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples.
madam president, in 1999, the eu thought that it had solved the henry kissinger question: ‘who do i call if i want to call europe?’. a new high-profile post was created – that of the high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy. today, we all know that the kissinger question is anything but solved. we see it today with the situation in iran/iraq after the death of general soleimani: everyone is calling everyone. mr borrell, you go calling mr zarif; charles michel is calling guterres, while macron is calling rouhani and merkel is calling trump and erdoğan. we have to make things less ambiguous and more efficient – not only for the kissingers in the world, but to better defend our european interests. let’s call mr borrell, your boss, not ‘high representative’, but just like all citizens understand, ‘eu foreign affairs minister’. that i can explain to all european citizens. ‘give you the ability to act’. that means abolishing the unanimity rule in the european council so that you can take the plane to tehran or washington tonight. let’s develop a true european defence union, and – if i can choose – a real european army, so that we can protect our interests, border and neighbourhood. if we could learn one thing from the russians and americans, it is that a strong foreign policy backed by a strong military goes to the heart of a nation. so let us fight for a stronger europe in the world. mr borrell, we will fight with you here in this parliament. (applause)
madam president, i will focus on the cfsp, which is my area now. there are many positive provisions in the report, for example freedom of navigation, and challenges and threats to this notion from the strait of hormuz to the azov sea. yet i can also see red lines, for example qualified majority voting. today’s debate on iran assures me that we are still very divided in this area within the eu. moreover, the introduction of qualified majority voting may harm the possibility to further strengthen multilateralism.
madam president, this annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy represents the pressing demand for militarisation of eu administrators and it doesn’t seem to matter that this trend goes against the constitutional commitments of certain member states. the establishment of permanent structural cooperation (pesco) has raised defence cooperation to a new level, which directly threatens irish neutrality, as described in the constitution. with the multiplication of defence funds, which this report encourages and supports for future development, the peace project still cited by eu devotees tends to join the global upward trends in armaments. in contrast to this report, which welcomes the effective implementation of pesco and praises its provision in the lisbon treaty of 2009, which makes it legally binding, we don’t agree with the external effect of this provision on the national legislation of member states. these latest developments in the common security and defence policy have put great pressure on the concept of irish neutrality and have brought into the national debate the questioning of the concept and the reference to certain amendments. it should be noted that the european court of auditors’ defence support did highlight the fact that the drive to increase the militarisation of europe is not shared by all member states.
the netherlands and most of the european member states are now defending themselves within nato, and i would like to keep it that way. and that is because, in the end, in that partnership, it is the national parliaments that decide whether to send their women and men to dangerous areas. i certainly hope very much that my country, among others, will soon be able to meet the two per cent standard for nato defence policy. it is true that the annual report before us does not mention the need for a european army, but in fact paragraphs 116, 118 and 120 open the door to such an army. i find that a little complicated. i think nato is very important and fortunately important words are also being said about nato and i would like to keep it that way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a picture is worth a thousand words, and the fact that you are sitting on one side today, that is to say, on the commission side, in the debate on iraq and iran, and that you are changing seats during your time in the european parliament in this debate on the common security and defence policy, shows that we do not have a common foreign, security and defence policy. this is what this picture shows, it expresses the fragmentation. and if we're torn, we're not going to be credible. when we're torn apart, we're incapable of acting. and if we want to make the commission the continent's spokesman in the world and the european union fit for world politics, we need a common foreign, security and defence policy. i ask you to do everything possible to ensure that we become a defence union, a security union, a political union. you play a very important role in this debate. i would like to ask you to stop playing the game of changing seats, to take off your various hats and to promote this strong europe in the world.
madam president, first of all i would like to acknowledge the efforts of our dear colleagues danjean and mcallister, who are truly to be congratulated on the excellent report that each of them has produced. i believe that a strong defence and security in the european union is the enormous deficit that the european union bears on its shoulders, it is the great burden, it is the great stigma. the european union should have had defence and security yesterday. we're already late! the european union, in order to be able to protect its borders, as it declares, and to preserve, as it is its duty and duty, the sovereignty of its member countries, must allocate money from the budget and start building up its defence and security now. the european union is not a military power, but a political power, and it is not a political power, but a political power, and it is not a political power, but a political power. but i think that until we have a common defence and security, the member states of the european union must react. and it would be a good step, mr borrell, if there were a first decision by the member states, in the framework of solidarity, to react unitedly against any attempt to attack a member state of the european union and violate its sovereignty, and to react by all means.
mr president, the european union's common security and defence policy has made very positive progress in recent years. however, if the european union is to be a strong, united, credible global actor, we must be able to respond much more rapidly and in a more coherent way to crises. and that's not going to happen if you insist on unanimity. i therefore very much support the principle, which the committee on foreign affairs has put forward in its own report, that we should move to qualified majority voting in those cases where it is already possible without any need to change the agreements. these are at least questions relating to human rights, economic sanctions or civilian security policy operations. this change could be made very simply by the decision of the leaders of the eu member states. i would urge the commission and the high representative to take this forward now so that we can speed up decision-making, be a stronger, more united actor and act with credibility in global forums.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs. a few years ago, the formulation of a common foreign and security policy for the european union would have been an overly ambitious theory. today, the developments and conditions of globalisation require it if the european union is to maintain its economic stability and strength and to ensure that european and international law is respected. in particular, without energy security, for example, we are vulnerable to threats and blackmail. but energy requires protection and security from military threats and terrorist attacks. for there to be peace, it is not enough for us to want it. those who still call erdoğan a strategic partner will regret it. mr borrell, i'll say this in english: libya, syria, afrin, northern occupied cyprus, the aegean and the eastern mediterranean. the problem has a name: expansionist neoottoman turkey.
the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, madam president, again includes a section on the western balkans, which underlines the importance of this part of europe for the security and stability of the european union and stresses the need for a stronger engagement of the union, inter alia, through eu missions. i can agree that peace and stability in our immediate neighbourhood is a priority, both for my country and for the whole of the european union. but i believe that serious progress in the so-called western balkan countries cannot and will not be achieved by appeasing autocratic leaders as in the case of serbia or by ignoring the systematic violation of the political rights of the croatian people as in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. the union can indeed contribute to the progress of these countries and to the improvement of relations in this part of europe, but not by turning its head away from the problems, but by going to their heart and actively working to eliminate them.
madam president, in contrast to this report, i don’t welcome the implementation of pesco, i don’t praise its provision in the lisbon treaty – something we had to be forced to vote on twice in ireland – and i’m deeply concerned at the developments in the common security and defence policy, which have put tremendous pressure on the concept of irish neutrality, and we will be strenuously resisting any attempts to move to qualified majority voting. the militarisation of the european union and the drive to a european army is something that is not in the interests of the citizens. a new eu white paper on security and defence, as required by the report, would be a new step, not a favourable step, a step that seems to be pushed by france. interestingly, 13 of the new projects involved in the pesco pact approved last month were french ones. macron seems to be very determined to arm europe while he’s ignoring the pensions at home. if we want to make europe safe, let’s stop interfering in other countries. the report should be mentioning article 2(4) of the un charter, limiting the use of force against the territorial integrity of sovereign states. if you want to be safe, that’s what you’ve got to do.
in writing. – the global community, bar a few rogue outliers, has rightly condemned the outrageous abuse of power in venezuela and human rights abuses that are being perpetuated on its people. since maduro came to power in 2013 there has been an increase in human rights abuses and a shrinking of civil and political spheres. he has stifled dissent, targeted the opposition and presided over the collage of the local economy. insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, and expecting a different result. repeatedly, socialist dictators come to power promising the sun, the moon and the stars, and we get the same result: collapse of economies and abuse of human rights. the proven oil reserves in venezuela are recognised as the largest in the world, totalling 300 billion barrels. the united nations human rights office has denounced ‘widespread and systematic use of excessive force’ against demonstrators, saying security forces and pro-government groups were responsible for the deaths of at least 73 protesters. the eu must send a strong and clear message that it supports democracy and the rule of law and opposes dictators.
the eu, through the glass agreement for europe, will enable every member state to transition to a low-carbon society. i don't know. i voted for you. laws are being made, but we have to be ready to reach them. if it's not done, it's not going to happen. if it's not done, it's not going to happen. uimhir a do: cinntiú go bhfuil in the rialtais sásta in the cinntí deacra to dhéanamh anois. (it is not the same as saying that the people of the world are happy.) uimhir the third: cinntiú go n-oibríonn gnó privatach laws in the rialtais. the nile was built to save a planet. you should be afraid to let anyone in that room bet on the big bad australian. i tell myself, this is the worst storm i've ever had. mar fhocal scoir, caithfimid misneach a thabhairt do dhaoine - misneach gur féidir linn teacht slán as seo. - i'm not going to tell you what i think. they won't be able to do it. i'm glad everyone is here, and i'm talking to jacinda ardern, the prime minister of new zealand, before christmas. i'm not going to tell you what i'm going to do.
madam president, there are many positive points in the european green deal resolution. paragraph 20, for example, seeks to ensure the cost of building renovations will not be borne by the most vulnerable. there are concrete measures on the circular economy and important references to microplastics and support for upskilling workers. however, i couldn’t support the resolution as a whole. too many red lines are crossed, it completely undermines the fight for real emergency level action on both the climate and inequalities, it completely ignores mercosur, it praises gas as a transition fuel – which is madness, it refuses to call for a new common agricultural policy (cap) proposal and this is the cap from the green deal. the cap is doing serious damage and by spending eur 60 billion of taxpayers’ money on subsidies that mostly fund factory farms, while family farms are being destroyed and high nature value farms are struggling to survive. it also rolls back on parliament’s current unconditional position on 55% emission reduction by 2030, qualifying this with an impact assessment.
madam president, while we in the european union are better than a lot of the world’s economies in terms of dealing with climate issues, it doesn’t mean that we are good enough. i voted against the resolution because it falls pathetically short of what is actually necessary to deal with the scale of the crisis before us. for me, it represents the fact – and some of the votes on the amendments show – that we talk the talk but aren’t prepared to tackle the vested interests who are responsible for the greater scale of emissions. the rejection of the amendment which pinpointed the top 100 companies responsible for 71% of the global emissions; the fact that we celebrate a so—called just transition fund, but spend multiples of that amount on a common agricultural policy (cap) programme which subsidises bad environmental practice; the fact that we facilitate natural gas, the emissions from which are now outweighing the benefits of reduction in coal, and we spend billions on the military and arms industry, which is developing a very serious impact on our carbon footprint. the very fact that we’re here is a pathetic insult to the type of action that we need to deal with the scale of the emergency.
madam speaker, i must say i regret that the british are leaving our community. we could have been stronger, maybe some other countries are rejoicing russia and other great powers of world politics. on the other hand, i welcomed the fact that a deal had been made with britain and i regarded such a departure as a far better solution. the agreement, as the motion for a resolution says, is fair and balanced. i believe that the rights of citizens during the transition period will be covered by this agreement. as for the future, i'd like to think about that. it is important to say that the agreement declares a commitment to deal with this future period in a fair, balanced way. unfortunately, this is only a declaratory obligation and it is important that we remember the rights of eu citizens in the british isles for the future period, which are not covered yet. i'd like to think we remember the scots, the people of northern ireland, but it's a lot more complicated than that. in any event, it is good that agreement has been reached and, in view of the above, i have supported this motion for a resolution.
madam president, before 31 january 2020, when i will be kicked out of the eu against the democratically expressed wishes of the people in the north of ireland who voted to remain, i want to take this opportunity to thank the meps who voted for this resolution today and for your steadfast support for the good friday agreement and all of its parts. this resolution deals, importantly, with the rights of irish citizens in the north of ireland to enjoy access and exercise our eu rights where we reside. as part of last week’s stormont deal to establish the executive, the british government committed to change its immigration rules. irish citizens born in the north will now be able to exercise their eu family reunification rights, addressing the emma desouza case. however, britain did not get the name ‘perfidious albion’ for nothing. they still deny emma, and all of us born in the north of ireland, irish citizenship. my final warning to my fellow meps is this: beware of perfidious albion, a country you cannot trust that never keeps its word. britannia will always, always, waive the rules.
madam president, clearly the rights of over 3 million eu citizens in the uk and over 1 million uk nationals in eu countries must be safeguarded and adequately monitored by the commission and the proposed uk independent national authority. obviously, those rights provided for under the good friday agreement must also be safeguarded. we should also acknowledge the threat to the rights of all eu and uk citizens by the neoliberal ideology of the eu. the eu’s cap on national borrowing, as laid out in the stability and growth pact and the fiscal compact, is a grinding austerity policy that has completely undermined rights to education, food, health and housing, as well as rights to decent work, fair wages and social security. in ireland, even if we had a government with the mindset to tackle our terrible housing crisis – which we don’t have at the moment, they would be hampered by the fiscal rules. likewise, our road infrastructure has been built not by the state but by public-private partnerships (ppps), costing twenty times the money that it would cost if the state were allowed to borrow it itself. but, sadly, the eu feeds the private sector with its policies.
madam president, i have to say i will miss both our colleagues here from sinn féin, martina, but also the colleagues from the brexit party. i think the place is going to be poorer for all of their absence. but i supported this motion simply from the point of view of protecting the provisions and the citizens’ rights enshrined in the good friday agreement. we’ve had our taoiseach leo varadkar and boris johnson celebrating the resumption of the northern ireland assembly and telling us that the good friday agreement is now back working again. i suppose the point i want to make is that if the good friday agreement is working then what that means is that all of the people of northern ireland have to continue to have a birth right to identify themselves to be accepted as irish or british or both as they choose and as set out in that good friday agreement. irish people living in northern ireland who haven’t sought british citizenship cannot and should not have that citizenship foisted upon them.
madam president, i voted for this resolution on implementing citizens’ rights in the withdrawal agreement. i believe it gives clarity as to what happens in transition and what happens afterwards. as we’ve already heard, there are 3.5 million eu citizens in the uk who each have their own personal stories and situations, but they have one thing in common: they want to ensure a safe future for themselves and their families. the uk government has done everything possible to make things difficult. it has failed to provide a system that gives them full guarantees, or physical documents that would enable them to prove their status to prospective employers or landlords. now this is a huge concern in my constituency of the west midlands, and this is not hearsay. i have case-work that proves some of the awful experiences that eu citizens have had, and we forget that the eu migrants contribute gbp 2 300 more to the uk exchequer than the average adult. but what is truly shocking is that the uk government doesn’t seem to be as concerned about the plight of 1.2 million uk citizens living in the eu as the eu is about protecting its citizens’ rights. i hope that for those who are in this position, the labour meps will continue to stand up for their rights until the very end.
madam president, we must deconstruct the mechanisms that lead to human rights violations around the world and recognize that neoliberal policies can only survive if they are accompanied by authoritarian practices and, ultimately, by a form of violence chosen as a form of government. neoliberalism and authoritarianism go together. this is true in the world, but it is also true in france where we see how the current power brutalises social movements with ferocity and where we see with a certain form of astonishment how the power stifles movements that could come to thwart the dark neoliberal project. today, in france, death can be the appointment for peaceful protesters, when police violence is increasing and when they are used for the maintenance of order of so-called weapons of war, which are banned in many countries of europe. today, in france, the rights of the judiciary, trade unionists and journalists are being eroded, and with them the individual freedoms enshrined in our constitution and the charter of fundamental rights. all this is worrying, and we ask ourselves: from principles to principles under attack, from values to values denied, from excessive power to excessive power authorized, what kind of france is gradually taking shape?
madam president, the european union is and must remain the world's champion of human rights. commercial interests and agreements must also involve the human rights condition, we cannot sacrifice them to commercial interests. it is therefore important that the eu uses both sanctions and positive incentives, such as development aid, to support those governments that are trying to promote human rights in their countries. but i am very disappointed that the amendment that addresses the situation of christians, who represent the vast majority of religious groups facing discrimination, violence and death, and the call to protect them, was not adopted. i really don't know how serious the european parliament is about protecting human rights when freedom of religion is one of the basic human rights. and that motion was rejected, which is why i ultimately voted against the motion for a resolution.
madam president, human rights are supposed to be universal and indivisible. they’re not supposed to be instrumentalised. but that’s exactly what we have in the european union: instrumentalising human rights to advance foreign policy issues; to give out about the countries we don’t like – or, more particularly, the ones that the united states don’t like. this was summed up graphically by the brazen illegal extradition assassination of major general qasem soleimani and former parliamentarian iraqi general abu omar mahdi al—mohandes, and the absolute silence of the european union in the face of that made me ashamed that we would have the audacity to talk about human rights anywhere else. these were army officers with a record against isis, executed in the sovereign territory of iraq, in a civilian airport in which i have been. can you imagine what we would have been saying if the united states’ chief of staff had been assassinated in heathrow airport by the russians? i can tell you: we’d have been saying quite a lot, and this is the problem with this report. we talk to talk, we condemn the people we don’t like, and we say nothing about human rights violations at home. as my colleague said, the violent brutality of the french state against innocent protesters, and the irony that we talk about democracy while our catalan colleagues are sitting in jail rather than taking their seats here with us. it is an absolute disgrace, which is why i voted against it.
mr president, without our values – the values of human rights, freedom of expression, democracy and, crucially, the rule of law – the european union cannot exist. these very values guide our work here in the parliament day after day, and are the very essence of what makes us europeans. that’s why we’re having this discussion here today, because in poland these values and principles are sadly at risk through the actions of the current government. action taken to change the situation through the initiation of the article 7 procedure has regrettably shown little progress. there are two options on the table. i sincerely hope, firstly, that the polish government changes course and takes action to respect the judiciary as outlined in the commission’s recommendations of december. i urge them to do so and to stop the denial we’re seeing here today. however, should this not occur, the second option must be advanced: the council must take forward the article 7 procedure and make effective use of it. a holding pattern is no longer acceptable, and i stand with the justices from across europe who, upon seeing and injustice happening, move to the fore to stand up for the rule of law – the rule of law that is worth protecting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are not only in a climate emergency, we are also in a biodiversity emergency. have you noticed how quiet it's getting in the country? the birds go silent, and the insects disappear. so the sixth great extinction has already begun, and we're just going about business as usual, at the expense of the next generation. it took nature millions of years to develop the diversity of species and complex ecosystems. it seems that it will only take a few decades for mankind to destroy them. we know exactly what we should do: clear targets for reducing pesticides, no more importing genetically modified crops, no more giant monocultures. we must extend nature reserves, protect the forest, our waters and all ecosystems in general. without the protection and restoration of biodiversity, there is no future for humans.
mr president, the irish national parks and wildlife service report submitted to the un convention on biological diversity last year, also blames the pollinator decline on the obsession with intensive agriculture, the loss of hedgerows, and monocultures, including commercial forests made up of fast-growing coniferous species of low biodiversity value. this part of the report, in fact, accurately describes irish government policy and its complete disregard for biodiversity. hedgerow cutting was extended in the 2018 heritage act. the irish government, and indeed the eu, still rewards intensive farming to the detriment of high-value nature farms and the irish government’s obsession with, and over-dependence on, sitka spruce violates the basic principles of biodiversity. we need legally binding biodiversity targets at global an eu level and sufficient funding for these under the next eu long-term budget. we also need better enforcement of eu nature protection laws. we’ve got to care, commissioner, or things will stay the same and get worse.
mr president, biodiversity is the concept that underpins the essential values of human life. at the same time, it provides benefits not only for us but also for future generations. however, the human factor is causing a considerable decline in this, with serious effects in the medium and long term. climate change, or global warming in general, is the destructive element to it. the european green deal aims to be an instrument and mechanism to encourage member states, among other things, to compete for the conservation of biodiversity. however, member states must understand that they need to come up with adequate and sufficient funding to achieve these objectives. agriculture must be seen as a partner in this battle to preserve biodiversity. farmers must also be financially supported to make their farming practices compliant with environmental objectives. they can't do more with less money. last but not least, research and innovation in biodiversity conservation and restoration must be adequately supported.
mr president, the cop meeting in china is biodiversity’s paris agreement moment. people have finally realised the urgency of the climate crisis, but have come to also understand that climate, and the biodiversity crisis are intertwined. as an ecological educator, i have always liked explaining by example. if we don’t protect biodiversity, the time will come when children won’t know what it is to pick a wild flower, and we’ll only know butterflies and ladybirds in picture books. this is the eu’s moment to prove its commitment to stopping the huge destruction of habitats and the decline in species globally. this process cannot be completed without addressing the issue of agriculture and fishing. today we voted on a resolution on the european green deal. probably the eu’s most ambitious environmental policy ever, but we know not enough is being done in regards to reforming the way we farm and fish in europe. we must get serious. we must get cop on, and we must have action.
madam president! the situation in nigeria is extremely difficult. since 2015 alone, terrorist organizations like boko haram have killed more than 6,000 christians there. in the face of this immense threat, it is of utmost importance that president muhammadu buhari condemns the attacks and wants to work towards the unification of the society. decisive action is needed to guarantee religious freedom and the safety of citizens. so we should call on the nigerian authorities to fight terrorism and bring the perpetrators to justice. however, this must be done with respect for the law and human dignity. the unjustified deprivation of liberty of citizens, including children, and their prolonged detention without trial in conditions that violate human rights are unacceptable, as the human rights watch report has shown. this is not only against the universal declaration of human rights but also against the nigerian constitution itself. moreover, military action alone is not enough to counter the threat of terrorism. terrorist activity is the result of years of radicalization. to truly address this problem, interfaith dialogue, the promotion of religious freedom, and the fight against social inequalities are needed. nigeria is also facing a serious humanitarian crisis nearly half the population lives in extreme poverty. the european union cannot afford to look the other way. humanitarian aid must continue, but in the face of attacks on aid workers and volunteers, we must also call on the nigerian authorities to ensure that it is properly secured. also of concern is the sudden expulsion of humanitarian organizations by the nigerian authorities, which leaves thousands of people without the help they desperately need.
madam president, sadly, violence is nothing new in many regions of nigeria, and for those – and we have them in ireland – who criticise nigerian asylum seekers as economic migrants and not worthy of coming to europe, they should really look at what is happening in that country. the decade-long conflict with armed groups such as boko haram has obviously resulted in the deaths of tens of thousands of people, the displacement of two million, and tens of thousands missing, a majority of them children. and how can it be that 50% of the population live in extreme poverty in the country which is the twelfth largest producer of oil? we do have to look at the role of european corporations there, like total from france, and shell, a dutch-british company. there are deals with the nigerian national petroleum corporation, which doesn’t pay its taxes and has acted in an environmentally poor way, which has resulted in the deaths of others trying to defend their communities such as the ogoni people. so we have to join the dots. is it any wonder this country has descended into barbarism, and is it any wonder that the iraqi people mourn the death of general soleimani, who saved them from the type of regime that is prevailing in nigeria?
a uachtaráin, is scéal uafásach is scéal na nigéire, gan dabht ar bith agus is fiú is a phlé anseo ar maidin. a uachtaráin, is scéal uafásach is scéal na nigéire, gan dabht ar bith agus is fiú is a phlé anseo ar maidin. a uachtaráin, is scéal uafásach is scéal na nigéire, gan dabht ar bith agus is fiú is a phlé anseo ar maidin. gan dabht is also the boko haram terror group responsible for most of the problems in nigeria. i agree with the laws in the kanko and charanzová states that we should all try to do our best to stop the hundreds of girls who are being held by boko haram from being released. and also help the authorities to stop boko haram. it's not an important thing to do. the country is rich in oil, but at the same time, one of the richest countries is nigeria. there is a lot we can do to help them, especially laws on the teifigh seas, said clare daly, and laws on climate change, and the dangers of the christian world; but there is a problem and we should be able to do more in the future.
madam president, we clearly agreed in that debate on the problems that afflict this unfortunate country. i am prepared to support the resolution, although i am also sorry, as are some of my colleagues, that there is little emphasis on the fact that tremendous violence is being committed against christians, and we should emphasize this aspect more in the future. but what i want to add to the debate, which has not been heard much here, is that often the nigerian government is very lax about specific attacks, violence, and that often government soldiers are involved in that violence. and here is a role for us, and especially for our commission, our representatives, to put much more pressure on the nigerian government in its negotiations with the nigerian government to make sure that the fight that it is waging against islamic terrorism is not turned against ordinary nigerians. i think that our role here, and the role of the commission, can be significant, and i hope that we can at least help to make the nigerian government's fight against terrorism more effective in the future, alongside the humanitarian aid that we are also obliged to provide.
madam president, i condemn the persecution of christians, of muslims, of kurds, wherever they are. the current situation in nigeria should hold lessons for the imperialists in europe. the strife is a direct consequence of british colonialism and meddling. the empire’s parting gift to nigerians was to rig their first elections in favour of the pliant islamist sultanates in the north, making sure to keep the more independent minded blacks from yoruba and igbo regions out of power. the brightest future for nigeria was crushed and the oil kept flowing. we visited the christian village of maaloula in syria two years ago and where the christians were directly targeted by the jihadists, jihadists that were armed by the west, that were brought into the country, facilitated across the turkish border. the lack of inconsistency is terrible. the treatment of the palestinians by the israelis. the treatment of muslims in india. the genocide in yemen. let’s call a spade a spade.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the resolution on parliament's position on the conference on the future of europe because this resolution not only does not provide an answer, not only is it not a cure, it is a recipe for a political disease called far-left liberalism. the answers in this resolution are not what the sensible future of europe is. because the future of europe is not in the imposition of the dictates of the majority here, it is not in the continued imposition of the multicultural society, it is not in the continued imposition of same-sex marriage, it is not in the continued imposition of the wrong family models. the future of europe, as we, the people who define ourselves as patriots and patriots, imagine it, is in a strong europe of strong homelands, a europe based on christian values, on christian traditions, a europe which respects national self-consciousness and national self-determination.
madam president, i remember that many years ago i was a member of the so-called convention on the future of europe. i'm afraid we're now heading towards some kind of similar model by bringing this conference to life. and i remember well that the convention that eventually resulted in the european constitution, which was renamed the treaty of lisbon, was from the very beginning dominated by the federalists in the european parliament and on the european political scene, and had the sole purpose of pushing for deeper integration, giving more power to the european institutions, taking more power away from the nation states. i am afraid that we are now facing a similar development, as is also shown by the fact that critical voices, eurorealist voices, voices which do not want deeper integration, are excluded from this debate in advance, and this is simply unacceptable.
madam president, i have supported this resolution, which criticizes the further illegitimate and illegal actions of the dictator maduro. we have spoken of him many times in the plenary, and unfortunately he is stubborn and has once again strengthened his power by illegally changing the speaker of the parliament. we should consider what was said, namely toughening sanctions against representatives of the maduro regime and whether to opt for a tougher approach, because obviously maduro has the strength to still survive. and then there's the humanitarian aid that we've talked about many times. the situation in the country is absolutely appalling, there is a humanitarian catastrophe and i therefore encourage us to continue to participate and, on the contrary, to strengthen humanitarian aid to the people of this country who cannot stand being ruled by such a leftist dictator.
madam president, the eu’s continued recognition of guaidó is even more farcical now, given that on 5 january, with 150 of the 165 members present, the national assembly elected luis parra as its new president. parra is from the right-wing opposition party primero justicia and was elected with 81 votes. nor was guaidó refused access to the national assembly, as claimed by josep borrell. he’s on camera inside the gated area, calmly refusing to enter unless he was allowed to take with him 11 former members of the assembly. the event with him climbing the railing was staged afterwards. the declaration by josep borrell, expressing full support to guaidó as president of the national assembly is so disappointing and for me it’s a disgrace. the eu leadership is supporting anti-democratic regime change again. it’s crazy. why don’t we leave the venezuelan people to themselves? it’s time to stop inflicting suffering on these people and force the americans to lift the sanctions and let the venezuelans decide their future.
as regards wednesday's sitting, the gue/ngl group asked for a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in brazil with regard to the prosecution of the us-brazilian journalist glenn greenwald to be added as the fourth item on the evening's agenda before the debate on the council and commission statements on the urgent humanitarian situation in the greek islands, in particular for children - guaranteeing protection, relocation and family reunification. i give the floor to mr daly to present the request of the gue/ngl group.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i am moving a request for a debate with the high representative for foreign affairs on the situation in brazil regarding the prosecution of us-brazilian journalist glenn greenwald. the debate would be without resolution as a third item this evening, and i propose to put it to a roll call vote. colleagues, glenn greenwald’s work as a journalist is of no small significance to this european parliament. his reporting on the snowden disclosures in 2013 formed an important basis for the necessary work carried out this by this parliament in scrutinising unrestrained mass surveillance. that journalism contributed to landmark cases in the european court of justice, and a huge body of european union legislation is today on the books because of the journalism of glenn greenwald. last year he published a story on the high-level corruption in brazil, including judicial corruption that led to the wrongful conviction of former president lula da silva. lula was released as a result; greenwald is now under attack for that same story. colleagues, this is a transparent retaliation for holding power to account. if it’s attack on freedom of the press which bolsonaro has spoken out about: an attack on the democratic opposition. it cannot go without comment from this body, and i urge you to speak out.
in writing. – i used my maiden speech to the parliament in july of last year to express my grave concerns about the humanitarian crisis unfolding in the mediterranean. it pains me that six months later i am still having to make the same points, and in the meantime there has been great suffering and grave breaches of fundamental rights in registration camps for asylum seekers. the moira camp, for example, hosts 19 000 people whilst its maximum capacity is 3 100. the commission has committed to delivering a new pact on migration and asylum, which of course we welcome. however, the resulting agreement does not absolve the commission and the member states from their responsibility to address these deplorable conditions urgently.
madam president, the future of mobility has to be co2 neutral. we can reach that only through new technologies and alternative fuels, and electrification will not be possible without the corresponding infrastructure. therefore, madam commissioner, i urge you as soon as possible to come forward with the alternative fuels infrastructure directive, which we had seven years ago but which failed due to the destructive approach of the council. furthermore, i want to raise one more issue, which is the importance of the trans-european networks directive or regulation. this is also in preparation – we know that. i was the rapporteur eight years ago, and at that time we had different goals. now we have different goals as well. therefore we have to support, with the trans-european networks guidelines, also these targets and these goals that i mentioned before. we have to fund the smart and clean infrastructure also within the transport and ten-t guidelines as well, and the funding has to be there.
mr president, please clarify. that is what i hear very often from the inland shipyards in moerdijk and delfzijl. but also in my own city of rotterdam. we want to, they tell me, and actually today rather than tomorrow. the inland waterway industry in the netherlands, but certainly in europe, is keen to make the move to sustainable fuels. at the moment it is really only the lack of clarity from europe that is holding them back. whether it's hydrogen, lng or electric propulsion. or maybe the most brilliant discovery we've yet uncovered. it is not really important, as long as the european regulations allow it and the infrastructure is in place. that's why i'm standing here. i want europe to stop blaming inland waterways. i am quite certain that the revision of the ten-t directive and the alternative fuels directive will allow all those hardworking inland vessel owners, who are indispensable to us, to do what they so dearly want, namely to leave a sustainable europe to the next generation. and my question to you, commissioner, is this: do you agree that hydrogen, lng or those other possible future alternative fuels are the ones that offer opportunities for our inland waterway sector to become more sustainable and thus to gain ground? if so, how do you see this in the light of the forthcoming ten-t directive and the alternative fuels directive?
thank you, madam president. the future of transport must be affordable, accessible, healthy and clean: not my words, but the words of our president, commissioner ursula von der leyen, and i agree with that sentiment. i want to see it delivered. so let’s start with walking, move on to cycling and then invest in quality public transport. it’s not rocket science. if our transport systems work for children, if they work for older people, then we’re on the right road to sustainability. but we do have to move away from a car-centric vision of transport and mobility, and i want you, commissioner, to place a clear focus on active travel and safer, low—carbon mobility solutions. we have to move away from our obsession with mega projects and focus more on the small things that make a difference in different regions around europe. an eu strategy must not repeat the mistakes of the past – endless motorway and airport expansions and subsidies for pollution industries – so let’s offer a positive vision for how people can move around.
madam president, under the european vat directive, sun cream is not listed as a product eligible for a reduced vat rate. this desperately needs to change. irish senator tim lombard has proposed that, in an effort to tackle skin cancer and make sun cream more available, we need to remove vat on it. sun cream is classed as a luxury product in this day and age. my group, the european people’s party, recently launched our new campaign to ensure the fight against cancer is a top priority in the european union over the next five years. disease prevention must be high on the european agenda. i intend to raise this issue with our health commissioner and ask for the utmost support in categorising sun cream as a pharmaceutical product for use for health care, and not a luxury product. i believe we need to take a holistic approach to well-being to ensure our europeans, our citizens have optimum physical and mental health. prevention for any illness, be it cancer or mental health – which is a priority for my mandate – is a tool that must be used to help everyone’s health and well-being.
mr president, the commissioner said in his work programme that the commission will present a european democracy action plan to help improve the resilience of our democracies and deal with external threats. last week, i visited a prison in spain where there’s a number of catalan parliamentarians in prison for over two years and, among others, it’s a total breach of democracy what’s going on there. i mean, it isn’t someone from outside of europe. it’s the spanish government – the spanish judiciary – and a big problem with the separation of powers there. this is actually about that the denial of civil rights. nothing else. it isn’t just about the independence of catalonia; it’s the denial of civil rights. and it’s within the european union. tell me, commissioner: what is the eu going to do about it? because it’s a disgrace. (applause)
madam president, i voted in favour of the withdrawal agreement. the reason being is simply we need to have an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union and to facilitate that, the withdrawal agreement allows for us to go into a negotiation phase around the future relationship. if we were to reject it, obviously it would be a disorderly withdrawal and could have profound implications for citizens both in the uk and european union, but from my perspective, on the island of ireland. we have now established that there will be no hard border on the island of ireland, but i am certainly taking a leap of faith with regard to the issues of citizens’ rights and whether or not they will be whittled away in time after the future agreement is agreed. so i want to put on the record here, today, that i have genuine worries that irish citizens who want to remain european, who live in northern ireland, will have their rights and entitlements diminished if we do not ensure the continuation of the principles of the good friday agreement throughout the negotiations on the future relationship between the european union and the uk.
mr president, i voted yesterday contrary to what my reason and understanding would have suggested. i feel sad for the british people who would like to remain part of our cooperation and our community. and i'm sad for my constituents who would never have wanted brexit to happen. the european union was founded and works every day for the people, so that we can live better, more safely and in peace. erasmus is for students, climate policy for fair emission reductions, roaming for mobility, parental leave for children and families, workers' rights for workers' lives, trade policy for wealth and job creation and building a fair world. but you can't separate people. our destinies are bound together, and that's why i hope to cooperate and always will. i wish the united kingdom back, but i always work for good cooperation.
madam president, ireland would have liked britain to stay in the european union, but i think it’s very important that the vote of the people of britain in 2016 was respected. we voted ‘no’ to nice, and we voted ‘no’ to lisbon; it was deemed the wrong answer, and they made us vote again. well, as it turned out, the truth be told, the british people voted again as well in the election last month and if jeremy corbyn had stuck to his own principles – who has been very anti neo-liberal for a long time – if he had actually stuck to his guns and stood up to the blairites in his own party, you know what, he wouldn’t have got the hammering he got, because the british people had already spoken. they had already made their choice. and they made it a second time. now, whether we like it or not, and i’d prefer it if they were here, we have a great relationship with the british people. we haven’t liked the whole lot of their governments, but we’re very fond of their people, and we will continue to be so. and to be honest, i will actually miss; there have been some wonderful speakers from the brexit group and i have great respect for a lot of the speakers that were in it and i will miss them.
madam president, i voted yesterday in favour of the withdrawal agreement for the united kingdom. and i want to make it clear at this point in the explanation that i personally do not agree with the uk leaving the eu, i consider it a great loss, as my colleagues have said here. i'm very sorry about that. on the other hand, i respect the decision of the british people as a democratic decision that the british people made in the referendum, and at this point i have no choice but to support an agreement that brings some rules to this divorce. and most importantly, it protects eu citizens living in the uk against a possible wild breakout. so this is a good solution in the realm of politics, and i hope that in the future we will treat our trade relations in a way that we remain good neighbours and cooperate and support each other.
madam president, it doesn’t give me any pleasure to say that some of the speeches, and the singing and the tears, and the ‘we know best’ attitude of some of the uk remainers show to me how disconnected you are from why you lost the general election and why we’re at the stage we are, where a major member state has left the european union. and i listened to guy verhofstadt yesterday shrug his shoulders and say ‘oh, how did it come to this’ and blame everybody else except the european union itself. a union which fails to recognise the problems that it has. a union which allows fiscal rules to be broken for arms expenditure, but not for housing or to put roofs over the heads of people. a union that talks about democracy everywhere else and stays silent when our catalan colleagues lie in spanish jails. there are many reasons why this union needs to look inside now. i voted for the agreement. it’s the best of a bad lot. i don’t want a hard border on ireland, but if there are problems after this, the remainers and europe can take a huge chunk of the blame for it.
madam president, we saw here this morning and yesterday, the depth of feeling amongst many other countries and members at the loss of the united kingdom from the european union. that was genuine, and it was genuine because it brought to an end 47 years of membership, 47 years of peace-building, 47 years of cooperation and partnership, 47 years of breaking down borders and barriers. this was important, it was about building democracy and the uk played a very important part in that and i want to thank our uk colleagues for their contribution. but let me say, it’s about the future now. nobody knows the shape of the uk after brexit, we await that – to see how the uk will fare. but now is the time to build new relationships in that new context, and i hope that those negotiations will be approached in a way that will allow us to reach a deal, and that the uk will not diverge from the very standards that they played a key part in putting into place, whether it’s about food safety, the environment and so on. but let’s put the interests of our citizens and communities and businesses first, who do want the closest, deepest and broadest possible relationship with the uk in the future.
madam president! i have of course supported this resolution on the universal portable radio charger because i think the current situation is totally irrational. we're accumulating in our homes, in our offices, a lot of chargers that no longer fit any devices. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned was lower than the average price of the product concerned during the investigation period. it's so idiotic that the same vendor, the same manufacturer of the same phone, launches another model with a new charger. if we are going to talk about and act in a realistic way towards a circular economy, this is definitely a step in the right direction.
(start of speech off mike) ... of the resolution as well. we have to accept at this stage that, in terms of environmental damage, the amount of cables and chargers littered across homes throughout the world is simply a scandalous idea at this particular juncture and we surely have the capacity, in terms of innovation technology, to ensure that we can develop a charger and a cable that is uniform and that can do what this particular motion and resolution sets out to do. there is no doubt that there are drawers and cupboards across households, across the entire european union, full of old cables and old chargers and like previous speakers have said, we hoard for fear that someday we might need it again, but it is never taken out and it lies there gathering dust with the hundreds of kilometres of cable and chargers in households, as i said, throughout europe. so i urge the commission to be proactive, to engage with industry and to ensure that the spirit of this resolution is enacted to ensure that we have a common mobile charger for domestic bliss, if not more.
madam president, let us now see if we can call the commission's attention to this matter so that it can help. these are the little things that help us: the digital revolution, bringing this european union closer to the people. we have done so with roaming, let us do so with this issue. let us stop, as my colleague said, accumulating miles and miles of cable that nobody uses in their homes, let us be useful. i think this will be very well received by european citizens, because we all suffer from the same problem. there is the environmental issue, but above all the personnel issue: boxes and boxes at home and the fact that they are being used. i am for free markets, but it is another thing to feel used, and this is the case. i would urge the commission to immediately echo what we have done in the european parliament and we can have some common sense about mobile phone chargers and other instruments.
i would like to remind you that the european people's party club already advocated the introduction of a single charger for electronic devices ten years ago. the single market has been and remains the foundation of europe's economy, the cornerstone of european integration and the engine of economic growth. around 50 million tonnes of e-waste is generated worldwide, with europe being the second largest producer with a total of 12.3 million tonnes. the european green deal seeks to reduce pollution through various initiatives, one of which is the single charger. the commission will also consider the possibility of a new charging scheme for electricity from renewable sources. with every new device, consumers are obliged, as we know, to buy a new charger, which adds to the cost of the purchase. the single charger is not only a solution to environmental issues, but it is also a solution to reduce costs for consumers while protecting their rights and freedom of choice. by introducing a single charger, we would not only protect consumers, but also the world we live in by promoting environmental awareness.
madam president, almost 15 million tonnes of e-waste are generated globally every year, at an average of more than 6 kilogrammes per person. total e—waste generation in europe in 2016 stood at over 12 million tonnes, correspondent to an average of over 16 kilogrammes per person – so rationally three times the world average. the huge variety of chargers on the market for mobile phones and other electronic devices drives consumers crazy, but has also contributed massively to e-waste. voluntary industry agreements have failed to solve the problem and consumers are still obliged to buy new chargers for all new devices. it’s a crazy situation, given that we’re facing climate breakdown. we all know that apple has been actively lobbying not to introduce a mandatory common charger, and for too long now. the commission has prioritised the interests of apple over the interests of ordinary citizens and consumers, and the one time that the commission did the right thing and ordered 13 billion of apple’s monies to be paid back to the irish government we had a fine gael—labour government that refused to take the money, despite the fact that they needed it.
madam president, next week, after 47 years of being a strong, effective, socially-progressive force in the european parliament, there will no longer be any uk labour voices to champion the issues so many women still encounter today, such as the gender pay gap. i want to pay tribute to all past and present labour meps, especially my labour sisters who, like me, have been at the forefront of fighting for gender equality. they’ve inspired me, and they will inspire a future generation to ensure i am not the last labour woman speaker in this parliament. i therefore pay homage and respect to janey buchan, barbara castle, ann clwyd, joyce quin, christine crawley, carole tongue, pauline green, christine oddy, mel reed, anita pollack, angela billingham, mo o’toole, veronica hardstaff, glenys kinnock, eluned morgan, susan waddington, arlene mccarthy, linda mcavan, neena gill, catherine stihler, mary honeyball, glenis willmott, lucy anderson, anneliese dodds, theresa griffin, judith kirton-darling, clare moody, alex mayer, and finally, jackie jones.
the president voted to make a ruling on laws that would prevent the entry of foreigners into the eu, because he thought it was important to teach them about the differences that existed in the workplace and to prevent them from being taken over. the european union is committed to making the right choice in the future, to be prepared to take action in the future, and to make the right choice in the future. no one wants to see us fight with the lions, but we have to fight them.
madam president, i voted yes, of course, to this resolution, not because i follow the line of political exploitation of the backward left in europe - which we have here in parliament, represented by our colleagues - which uses feminism in a prehistoric way, but precisely because it looks to the future, as my colleague mr hook has just said. i have two daughters, and i'm looking out for their future. clearly, there is still injustice in the pay gap for women. i hear a lot of cases in my country, where there is a leftwing government, by the way, which i see is still not doing anything. in many european countries there are thousands and thousands of women who are suffering from this wage gap. and that is what we have to support, logically, and that is what we will be supporting from the spanish people's party and the european people's party.
madam president, i think it’s an absolute disgrace that in the eu in 2020 women are paid 16% less per hour than men. that’s before you even look at the unequal employment rates between women and men. of course it’s intolerable that women continue to have to pay the cost of maternity, unremunerated and unrecognised care work, domestic work, leading to a situation that, at the end of slaving your guts off, you’ve a 37% gap in your pension than men have. so there’s a lot of good in this resolution, but i abstained on it because it spent too much time dealing with the symptoms and not addressing the causes. deregulation of work, the drive towards precarious work, disproportionately affects women and as long as this is unaddressed the gender gap will remain. the motion failed to join the dots. we have to make it clear that women, as james connolly said, ‘are the slaves of slaves’. we’ve got to connect the two or this issue will blight us forever.
madam president, the statistics on the gender pay gap have been well pointed out here and they are, without any doubt, a disgrace. but it’s also important to acknowledge that the long—term effects of neo—liberal policies imposed by the eu are further increasing discrimination against women and inequality between men and women. it’s important, too, to call on the commission not to promote any policy recommendation that seeks to increase the precarious work relations, the deregulation of work and working hours, the reductions of salaries, the privatisation of public services and of social security systems, or those that undermine trade unions. misogyny is still very real. look at how slow our own country, ireland, was about recognising women’s reproductive rights, it took so long. but the root causes of the salary discrimination between women and men also derive from the broader context of labour deregulation and devaluation. things must change.
madam president, the eu has always been a standard-bearer for equality, and no less so in this gender pay resolution, and i want to thank those colleagues who supported it. it’s an important resolution and there’s been great cooperation amongst all of the parties, and the epp strongly supports it. there was a recommendation in 2014, and what’s quite clear is that there has not been enough activity – not enough action – to reduce the gender pay gap as well as the pension gap, which is at 36%, and the pay gap at 16%. but i want to say to businesses out there, to firms, national and international, to governments, to media outlets: wake up, because there is a directive coming your way that is going to make it statutory for you to have more pay transparency, to have more audits, to give workers more rights about salaries, and to have more compatibility between different jobs. we absolutely need to have this, and this gender pay resolution sends a strong message from this parliament that we are serious about doing this, because it has even decreased the amount of pay to women in some member states since that recommendation in 2014.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, the stability pact is the web of rules that guarantees the security and prosperity of the european economic area. at the same time, however, it must now be the tool for implementing the green deal and needs urgent adjustment. the adjustment is called 'investments'. green, sustainable, generously funded and from national budgets investments. i would like to ask you two direct questions on that basis. first, do you plan to give greece the opportunity to allocate additional budgetary space to green investments, especially in regions transitioning from coal? how will that happen when there is such a high mandatory primary surplus? secondly, do you think that investment in transition areas with special tax zones can be made? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
madam president, commissioner, economic governance has sought to create a framework of almost absolute restraint on any sovereign development project. as mrs merkel said, the idea is to ensure that, even if governments change, policy never changes. the policies of the european union, the single market, the euro, have created inequalities and imbalances. wealth is constantly flowing to the center at the expense of the dependent and indebted periphery. when the policies that brought us into crisis should have been questioned and abandoned came economic governance, to ensure that they were enforced with iron if necessary. we are paying the price for this, with the continuing drainage of national resources to the creditors, the lack of public investment, the weakening of the productive apparatus, the degradation of public services. there is no pretense of revision or flexibility that is good for us. we must get rid of economic governance and the european semester and the stability pact, instruments which have tied us to low wages, to dependence and stagnation and which threaten democracy itself. i am well aware, commissioner, that the commission has recently discovered its ecological vocation, but here we do not need recycling, only the final waste bin.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in an economic environment that is very different from that of a decade ago, with persistently low interest rates and production below potential, the time has finally come to rethink the prevailing approach to the system of budgetary constraints. the rules in force are not able to adapt to the needs of the moment. this is not only because of the content of the rules themselves, but also because of their asymmetrical application, which has led to the creation of a two-speed europe, through the excessive pressure exerted by the commission on public spending and the complete lack of attention to the systemic risks linked to the macroeconomic imbalances of some countries. in short, the commission has also concluded that it is important to rethink the current budgetary rules, to give more room for investment to the member states, to combat unemployment and climate change, by introducing a golden rule for the disinvestment we are calling for, especially green investment, and possibly also green bonds. the stakes are high. i hope, commissioner, that this will continue, because the last thing the euro area needs is to think about it again.
madam president, commissioner, i am sure you are aware of what i am saying. but i want an answer. how do you find solutions? of course we have to adapt economic governance to the real situation. as it's been said here, europe is clear with two speeds. we have the eurozone, the non-eurozone. we have the schengen area, we have the non-schengen area. we have different states of economic development. instead, we have the same indicators, the same deficit. we can't make investments with a very low deficit. how do we get the green deal funds to go to areas that are less developed? what are you going to do to change this economic governance, to actually reduce regional disparities? because the juncker fund showed us that the funds were concentrated in 4-5 countries (this is also the court of auditors' report) and that, in fact, regional disparities increased. and we have to respond to that by changing economic governance.
madam president, there’s been a lot of talk from the commission about reviewing the fiscal policies and the measures taken after the financial crash, but for me there’s precious little really in terms of the impact or the real effect on the citizens of europe, and for me, the report is really a bit of a whitewash of austerity. i mean, you’re actually proud of the fact that you have reduced excessive deficits, as you call it, but no attention paid to the impact that that has had on citizens: the debts of bankers foisted onto citizens. and the result of that was seen in the election in ireland over the weekend, where the citizens rose up against economic austerity, against the rules which have prevented investment in social and public housing, with rising homelessness and people’s inability to put a roof over their heads. the commission says they’re interested in what could be done better regarding economic governance. well i put it to you: how about changing the eu debt and deficit rules so that they don’t apply, for example, to investment in social housing. you’ve no problem doing it with arms expenditure. could you not do it on social housing as well?
madam president, i too believe that the stability pact has to be revisited. we’ve got to have a better format. the truth be told, too many citizens of europe are being left behind because of your strict rules. people say that we need these strict rules in order to have financial security and stability. well, you know what – financial security and stability for who? sadly, too many people are being left behind and member states need the flexibility to take better care of those who most need our help and as my colleague said, in ireland this weekend, the neoliberal parties that were in government got a real good kicking because they didn’t serve the interests of those who most need it. my last point, on infrastructure and investment: we have been forced into public-private partnerships (ppps) to do infrastructure, where we pay 15% for money. we can borrow money for less than 1% on the books if you don’t hamper us with a 3% rule.
madam president, i too am of the belief that the european union should be more accommodating and a little bit less judgmental of the countries that want to join. there is no doubt that how things are organised in some of these countries can leave a bit to be desired, but things leave a lot to be desired in how we organise things in our own countries as well. for example, corruption is very blatant and on the surface in many of these countries, and we are critical of it – and rightly so – but we’re sometimes less critical of corruption in high places and big business in our own member states. to give you an example, in ireland, where we still have a ‘bad bank’ called nama, the manner in which they operate has probably cost the state about eur 20 billion, but that’s fine and it’s almost legitimate. we need to be a bit more consistent in how we approach these new countries who want to join.
madam president, i think it is a little bit ironic that we’re having this conversation just a week after losing a major member state ... that we’re looking at a new enlargement methodology. i think a period of reflection may have been a little bit more worthy. because, let’s face it, while we know that rule of law and fundamental rights are in the accession criteria, everybody knows that these rules are bent regularly by some countries, depending on who you are. but what can’t be bent, and what is not negotiable, is the neoliberal ideology at the heart of the union, this is sacrosanct. the market economy and competition. and i don’t think that’s for the benefit of people in albania or macedonia, no more than i think that it is of the benefit to people in ireland. in actual fact it was the failure of these neoliberal policies that actually led to many of the people who voted for brexit. it’s the reason why so many people in ireland turned out this weekend to vote for left-wing parties in an historic rejection of neoliberalism. if we want to build the union... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i don’t accept for a minute that good regulation is a problem for smes. i’ve been in business all my life. i’ll tell you what is a problem: mindless, stupid bureaucracy is a problem for smes. but in actual fact, when it comes to good regulation, it’s the lack of it that actually can damage smes a lot of the time. for example, we don’t regulate our banking industry properly, and that can be a huge problem for smes. they give you an umbrella if the sun is shining and they take it back off you if it starts raining. there are energy costs. very often there isn’t good regulation on how it’s monitored by the state. local authority rates in ireland are killing small business. rents: there’s no proper regulation of rents in ireland. i don’t know what it’s like across the rest of europe, but it’s this lack of good regulation that is really damaging smes, and it goes without saying that a lack of real good positive government support is also a problem. they give it to foreign direct investment but they won’t give it to their own indigenous industry.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our companies, our companies suffer from excessive bureaucracy, and this has been mentioned many times. i would like to give a specific example of a problem which is a major problem for many small and mediumsized enterprises in my home region of bavaria: the so-called a1 certificate. this is the proof you have to show when you perform a service in another european country. you have to show that you're in a social security system. and when my master carpenter goes from traunstein to salzburg and has to assemble a cabinet there, he must carry this a1 certificate with him. otherwise, if he can't produce it, he'll have to pay a hefty fine. so that really creates frustration and anger without end. i'm counting on you. you are digital savvy, let's build an online clearing system for these a1 certificates in europe, so that it is easy for someone who controls to be able to fight undeclared work: they log in and can then understand online whether there is now an a1 certificate here, yes or no. it would be a great thing if you could do something like that.
mr president, i’m very glad that we’re talking about smes. they employ more people, they generally pay more taxes – or certainly they do in ireland – and the environment that they have to work in is incredibly hostile, particularly when we compare it to the manner in which foreign direct investment and multinationals are treated, and indeed the supports given to the agricultural sector. now in ireland, smes almost have to pick up the tax bill that the multinationals don’t pay. they’re the ones who take the hit when the economy goes into austerity, and they’re the ones who carry the can for that. it’s an affront to them that the irish government would take legal action in order to say that we shouldn’t collect eur 13 billion in tax from apple: monies that could be collected in order to invest in small and medium-sized businesses. i would like to echo the points made that one man’s bureaucracy is another man’s regulation, and while we do not support bureaucracy in any way, regulation and good standards are important in terms of employment, in terms of environmental protection. but critically, small and medium businesses need to be supported.
i very much regret, madam president, commissioner, that the european parliament has the right to reject or approve the entire list of projects of common interest without singling out specific projects. although i share the colleagues' concern about the still high investment in gas infrastructure. this time i will support the fourth list, as it contains an important project for the baltic states to synchronise electricity with europe. this is not just a geopolitical project. in the future, it will also help to exploit the wind potential in the baltic sea. as regards the future fifth list, i would like the guidelines for transatlantic energy infrastructure to be amended so that in future the european parliament can also select projects from the list. so it's not just a question of yes or no. thank you. thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the green deal can only work if we ensure a stable and affordable energy supply, and that requires energy infrastructure. and energy infrastructure is bound to include the projects on your fourth pci list. i strongly support you, commissioner, in view of the proposal you have put forward. it is absolutely right that we should continue to support and promote gas projects. gas is a transitional technology, a bridge technology, which we cannot do without. mr pieper has mentioned it: a country like poland which is to get out of coal-fired power stations. yeah, so what kind of world are we living in? of course, we need gas as a transitional technology. and so i think it's a responsible thing to do, and i can only support you, that we also rely on this bridge technology. with regard to the hydrogen technology to be developed, we may also need the pipes for this. it's not true that everything is already built. god forbid. if i look at my home region, in bavaria, there is not a kilometre to the south and southeast of the city that has been built yet, and of course we need these projects. so, commissioner, i very much hope that you will get a solid majority for your proposal tomorrow. our group will support your proposal. i would ask my colleagues to be careful. if we want the green deal, we must also give some countries the opportunity to rely on gas for a transitional period, and for that we need the infrastructure.
mr president, this vote is a defining moment for this parliament. the projects of common interest list of energy infrastructure projects contains 55 fossil fuel projects. the recent artelys report on gas supply security in the eu, commissioned by the european climate foundation, acknowledges the role of existing gas infrastructure in protecting the eu’s energy security, and the report says the new gas projects on the pci list are not necessary. therefore, we risk wasting eur 39 billion of unnecessary money on gas infrastructure projects. gas is not a transition fuel and its total greenhouse gas emissions surpass those of coal. we should acknowledge, as well, that the pci process is legally unsafe and is leaving itself open for legal challenge in the member states due to the reckless behaviour of the director—general for energy in compiling a list of projects without taking on board the climate impacts. if we vote for this, it just means that we don’t give a damn about the paris agreement and that the green deal is a load of nonsense.
mr president, we declared a climate emergency; now the hard work begins to deliver on the paris agreement and increase our ambition to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030. we’re not going to do this by building terminals for importing fracked gas. we’re not going to do this by increasing leaks of methane. if projects of common interest don’t protect our common home, if they’re not paris compatible, then they must be scrapped. so let’s power-up offshore wind, invest in energy efficiency and retrofit every home in europe over the next 30 years. lower fuel bills, saving the planet: it’s a win-win. what’s not to like? commissioners, back to the drawing board. fáilte mhór and welcome to my new colleagues in the green group here in europe and a big shout out and comhghairdeas to my newly-elected teachtaí dála in the irish parliament in dáil éireann. let the green wave continue.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in my view, the proposal to reject the fourth list, which has come to light after several months of consultation and work, including legislative work, and which is a balanced list because it takes account of the climate objectives but also of the need to ensure energy security, is contrary to common sense. the countries do not look at the whole of europe, because they come from one country, or at least from those countries which are doing quite well economically. moreover, this proposal does not take seriously the legislative agreements of the last parliament. most of you are in parliament for the first time and have not taken part in those negotiations, so let me remind you that this is among other things the 'clean energy' electricity package, in which we have committed member states to increase the number of cross-border connections and to switch to less-emissive than coal electricity sources. we have already said that we must be able to make the energy transition, the appropriate transition from coal to gas and therefore to a less emission-intensive economy than before. i think that is quite obvious, especially since these are strategic projects.
mr president, commissioner simson, security of supply, diversification of energy sources and energy at low prices for citizens and industry are the key axes on which we must move towards the transition to a zero-carbon economy in 2050. the transition process needs to be supported by projects of common interest, but also by the transition fuel of natural gas. countries that determine the success of the green deal, such as germany, rely on the energy security offered by natural gas. the fourth list of projects of common interest includes eastmed, igb, the fsru in alexandroupolis and the kavala gas storage facility. these are all transitional projects of great geopolitical importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the supply of iron and steel products to the community is not affected by the crisis. it is important that these infrastructures can be used for both hydrogen and green gas. we must not shoot ourselves in the foot today; we must not return to the third list; we must not deny those countries which do not have the economic means the opportunity to make the transition in the best possible way.
mr president, i admit that i understand the citizens who are beginning to lose confidence in us, the elected representatives of the european parliament. at this session, the european parliament will be forced to vote on a trade agreement with a dictatorship, in the name of human rights. and today we have a list from the commission, a list of 29 billion for gas infrastructure projects, in the name of the environment. so i'll admit it's hard to find your way around. it is well known that fossil gas contributes to a quarter of global warming. in addition, the fossil gas you want to support is a gas that supports fracking, highly polluting and dangerous to air, water and health. let us be consistent with our commitments and the commitments that are demanded not only by citizens but also by scientists. hundreds of scientists from the ipcc are calling for us to take action now. let us reject the list, but also, commissioner, come as soon as possible with a change of regulation and with a revised list.
mr president. i agree with colleagues who said that this is one of the most serious decisions that this parliament has been faced with. if we don’t reject this list, then it will stand as a monument to our hypocrisy. because what we’re looking at is member states who committed to stopping subsidising fossil fuels by 2025 actually agreeing to commit and tie us – lock us – into that dependence for 40 years. it is utter lunacy when we’re supposed to be committing to being carbon neutral by 2050, and you simply can’t do it if we agree with this list. projects which have been assessed as being unnecessary and unviable. a waste of eur 29 billion that could be used elsewhere, and scandalous projects like liquid natural gas, importing fracked gas into ireland. and i genuinely believe that the pcis are legally unsafe, as there hasn’t been an assessment of the climate impacts. and can i ask what the common interests are on the list, when they’ve been put together with so much pressure from the trump administration, be it through tariffs on the auto industry or the military presence on polish soil? it’s a long way away from an independent, environmentally-friendly energy policy.
mr president, it is a strange tradition that countries which hold the presidency of the council for six months are sponsored by private companies. in my view, this is scandalous, because it casts doubt on the impartiality of public decision-makers. last year, romania was sponsored by coca-cola. the us multinational paid him more than eur 40 000 and, in return, received the right to offer invitations to public events organised by the romanian presidency. the mix of public interest and private interest was at its peak. this year, croatia committed itself to being an example. unfortunately, it failed, because this country was sponsored by the ina group, an oil company. at the very least, it does not fit very well with the draft green deal which is the priority of the von der leyen commission. we must learn from this and immediately ban the sponsorship of the council presidencies, without waiting for germany to be sponsored by bmw tomorrow and france to do the same the day after tomorrow with the rothschild bank.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days we have been promoting a letter to president sassoli, signed by myself and 35 other italian members of the european parliament, in which we ask that today, 10 february, at the opening of the session, a moment of remembrance be dedicated to the approximately 30 000 martyrs of the phobias, the deep karst cavities, and to the 350 000 italians exiled from istria, rijeka and dalmatia. we note that president sassoli has accepted this request. a minute of silence and a dry message of remembrance. it is regrettable that on this occasion too the courage was not found to clearly point out the historical responsibility of the slav communist partisans of marshal tito, often aided by the italians, in that vicious ethnic cleansing against the italians. those italians are dead or escaped from exile, yes, but you never say killed by whom or to escape from whom. the oblivion of yesterday and the denial and justification of today are fought with the courage of historical truth. as long as there are a- and b-type deaths, there can be no true peace.
mr wallace will have the floor for a minute.
mr wallace, did you ask for the floor? your name is written down on my list.
mr president, what’s the topic?
the irregular handling of the democratic party’s iowa caucus by the iowa democratic party and the national committee in the united states and the concerns it raises for the integrity of the us electoral system.
mr president, my colleague, seemingly, is going to speak on that subject. while i have the opportunity, i might as well use my minute. we had a very interesting election in ireland at the weekend, where the neoliberal parties of fianna fáil and fine gael got their comeuppance and we had an absolute upheaval. it was a direct response from the people to incredible unfairness in how the country is governed. so many people have been left behind by the so-called ‘economic recovery’, and sadly, the government have failed to deal with serious problems that were affecting the people. we have a homelessness crisis. we have a housing crisis. they failed to deal with them. we bailed out the banks. we borrowed billions, and we loaded the burden on the ordinary people. we set up a bad bank called nama to deal with distressed assets – they cost the state over eur 20 billion, and nobody blinks an eyelid. we have a lot of problems, but maybe the elections this weekend will go a little bit towards addressing them.
mr president, (inaudible passage) that this parliament never misses the opportunity to lecture other countries about their electoral processes or to have a meltdown about electoral interference and yet we’re letting the iowa caucus go without a mention. bernie sanders is on top in the polls, even though we all know the democrat establishment hates him. then we find out that the democrats used an app for the iowa vote count, built by a company that had taken usd 42 000 from another candidate, pete buttigieg. the app broke. the democrats supressed the result. mr buttigieg himself comes out, announces himself the winner and happy days. now, if this was a reality tv show, we’d be laughing. if it was iran, syria or russia, we’d be suspending the debate here, we’d be apoplectic in our condemnation, but because it’s the united states, that great country that spent so much time bringing democracy to the rest of the world, we say nothing. well, it’s a bad day and a blight on any semblance of democracy that this type of carry—on would go on, and i didn’t want this to pass without comment.
madam president, i just want to refer to a matter of great importance in the relations between the european union and the united kingdom: fisheries, in particular the continuation of the much-needed reciprocal access to waters and fishery resources - as mr barnier is well aware. i think it is essential - as others have already said - that european fishermen retain access to uk waters and resources. there are many important fishing communities and regions which are highly affected by this issue. we must not forget that european consumers are the main market for fishery products from british fishermen. they are complementary interests, so to speak. but what i want to stress here is that we must be firm in defending a link that goes beyond what has been said above. for me - as for mr barnier himself, according to his public statements - an agreement that maintains access to the waters and resources of the united kingdom is a necessary condition for there to be a free trade agreement. i would like to see this made very clear in the negotiating mandate adopted by the council and i certainly welcome the fact that parliament's motion for a resolution clearly includes this link in paragraph 24.
madam president, mr barnier, after three agonizing years of avoiding the abyss of a no-deal brexit, we are now faced in just ten months with a scenario no less stressful - the need for an agreement - and which can only be tackled from the standpoint of unity, the requirement of reciprocity and respect for european standards with the united kingdom, which was never schengen, never the euro and has now become a third country with all the rules of the law. and it is important to ensure that there is no tax haven at our borders - in gibraltar, for example - and to avoid this tradition of fraud, money laundering and smuggling, but above all to ensure that the agreement includes the treatment that the movement of people, judicial and police cooperation in the field of security and data protection deserves and to prevent a scandal like the violation of european data protection rules in the schengen information system from ever happening again. it is therefore very important to give this chapter on the movement of persons and the freedoms to which i refer as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs the attention it deserves.
madam president, i say to michel barnier: to use your phrase, ‘the clock is ticking’. and we all know that it took three years, three torturous years, to negotiate the withdrawal agreement with only three key points in it. so, therefore, in 10 months we have to do much more and we have to be very careful of the detail. as others have said, we need a level playing field, we need a good relationship with the united kingdom, so i wish us well in those negotiations. colleagues will also know that there is and has been a general election in ireland and there will be a new government. we hope that that government gets into place rather swiftly, because there is much work to be done. i hope, too, that they can build on the incredible work and achievements of taoiseach leo varadkar, tánaiste simon coveney, and minister for european affairs helen mcentee, who helped and worked with the european union to reach that withdrawal agreement, in particular on the irish protocol. ten months is a very short space of time. this parliament will be watching under the leadership of david mcallister, and we have to work together to keep our unity.
madam president, sometimes, when i come in here i wonder am i living on the same planet as everyone else. i heard someone say that we shouldn’t allow the uk to become a tax haven. my god, right now sub-saharan africa loses three times as much in capital flight each year as it gains in aid investment and loans. and much of it is channelled, illegally and legally, through the banks in the city of london. it is a tax haven, and it has a network of tax havens to work with. if you are in denial about that, i just don’t understand the thinking. unfair trading practices, talk about the merits of a free trade. the truth be told: unfair trade practices are killing farmers, indigenous people trying to make a living all over the planet. when is it ever going to stop? brexit should be used as an opportunity to move towards a system in which capital is embedded in local economies, and not moving all over the planet at the expense of the environment and the people of the planet.
madam president, we need a comprehensive partnership with the uk. it's obviously in our interest, but it's also in the uk's interest. such a partnership requires that we negotiate every component of this agreement in detail, in the interests of the citizens we represent. we have talked about data protection, innovation protection, trade, european standards, but obviously all of these things have to take into account the need for a partnership that also includes other dimensions: the security and defence side, the protection of the rights of the europeans who live there and, why not, maybe the continuation of the uk's participation in a number of european programmes, to the extent that they want it and we want it. i am therefore convinced that our negotiator, mr michel barnier, is more than capable of doing this. i've had the pleasure of working with him in the past and i'm confident that we can deliver such a strategic partnership in a timely manner so that all of these things are guaranteed going forward.
madam president, as an irish citizen, we’ve obviously always had a very close and intertwined history with the uk – not all of it welcome, but that’s another story. but that relationship will continue, and it is in our mutual interest that it should be a cooperative one. now, ms von der leyen talked about there needing to be rules to bring fairness to the heart of business. but the key question is: fairness for who? because if the rules continue to favour big business, the big corporations, the arms industry, the big farmers, and so on, then citizens will be left behind. that was one of the reasons for brexit, and it was one of the key reasons for the almighty trouncing that leo varadkar’s team got in the irish election this weekend. it was a rejection of neoliberalism. now, i wish you well in your negotiations. you have a number of issues to deal with, not least the situation of the medical profession and the need for you to work inter-institutionally to deliver progress. i echo the points of my colleagues about the data issues and the breaches by the uk. but critically, i urge you to protect, and have no backtracking on, the good friday agreement.
in writing. – the result of the irish election this weekend was a green wave of two shades, delivered big gains for greens and for sinn féin. brexit did not figure in the election, thanks to the eu’s work in minimising the damage to ireland from the uk’s exit. but challenges remain, and this election result could foreshadow more issues regarding the irish border into the future. this parliament, and the commission, must do all they can to ensure that the free movement of peoples and the permeability of the border is maintained into the long term. we need clarity from the uk government on the protocol for northern ireland, and the highest level of alignment possible. another immediate issue facing the negotiations is the july deadline for an agreement on reciprocal access to each other’s waters so we can allow our fishers to keep fishing in a sustainable manner, with minimised disruption. such a timeline seems unrealistic for an area of such complexity, and the parliament’s pech committee will have to play an active role in ensuring we reach a deal that prevents significant damage being done to both eu and uk fishers and the sustainability priorities of the cfp.
madam president, it is clear that business is already booming in vietnam: huge growth and opportunities in profits, and it is an opportunity to exploit a population of almost 100 million people. that’s why we’ve had the substantial lobbying by the european institutions and the various business organisations not to defer ratification of this treaty. don’t kid ourselves that we’re doing this for the benefit of the vietnamese people, that this agreement is to lift them out of poverty, as somebody ridiculously claimed. these agreements have resulted in a transfer of wealth from the global south to the west, exploiting their resources and their assets and undermining jobs in countries like those in the european union. someone asked how will these issues be sorted out if we don’t deal with them? the arrogance of such a question! they’ll be dealt with by the vietnamese people organising themselves in the same way as people did in these countries. and if we were serious about their concerns we’d listen to the ngos and the trade unions who are telling us not to ratify this deal.
madam president, commissioner, the policy of trade agreements that the union has been pursuing in recent years is proving to be one of the most effective tools for extending our social and environmental standards to the global world; it is also one of the most effective tools for promoting progress on human rights, which is very important in this agreement. the european union is thus able to implement policies which are impossible for individual member states. it adds value; it reveals itself as the global actor we need; it is useful to the citizens. i am also glad that this process of promoting fairer world trade does not leave any sector behind. i think it is very good that we have included a safeguard to ensure that our producers - especially fish processing companies and, in particular, canneries - have their legitimate interests protected and their good practices recognised against the threats of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. as long as the commission does not withdraw the yellow card from vietnam for this reason, the union must protect its production against the social and environmental dumping caused by these fishing practices.
madam president, to vote for a liberal trade agreement with an authoritarian communist regime in the name of defending human rights is really surrealistic and you know that i am of belgian origin, a country of surrealism, like mr bourgeois. but i think we're gonna win the gold medal here. yet it was, it is possible to do better than this agreement. why does the mechanism for the settlement of disputes between states not cover sustainable development? why are there no longer any binding mechanisms with penalties when it comes to social and environmental rights? such a change, commissioner, is quite possible, but it still requires the political will. you, commissioner, and we as parliament, give ourselves time to amend this agreement, as we did with isds in its day. everyone here in parliament said that isds was wonderful. we fought the battle, we won by changing the isds to ics. we have a battle to fight here: let us make sustainable development a binding chapter, with sanctions.
madam president, commissioner, you told us that human rights was an issue of concern in vietnam. now phil, tell me, in god’s name when did you ever allow any concerns about human rights to interfere with our business interests? i mean, we even do business with israel and saudi arabia. these trade deals don’t do anything for the people from these regions. they decimate indigenous industry, they impoverish small farmers. the people of vietnam will not benefit from this. big business in vietnam will benefit from it. the main problem with this type of agreement is that it guarantees enforceable rights to foreign investors and multinationals through the arbitration clause but doesn’t provide a mechanism for sanctions for noncompliance with social and environmental standards. what are the chances of trading with someone on the far side of the planet being good for our environment? zero. what are the chances of being consistent with the paris agreement? zero.
mr president, i would like to welcome madame lagarde. last week in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), you said that more attention should be given to the cost of housing and home ownership when it comes to the european central bank (ecb) inflation measure. i want to welcome those comments. we just had an election in ireland where the cost of housing was one of the main issues that dominated voters’ intentions. serious advances have been made to address the problems but in dublin, for example, rental prices have doubled since 2010 and property prices have gone up 85% since 2013. i think one should be putting more focus on the fact that house prices and rent rises are increasing rapidly across europe and i think that we need to have more diverse financial instruments to deal with this. it goes back to a very important remark that you made yourself before you were appointed president of the ecb. you said the ecb needs to understand and explain to people not only the markets. i think if we are to rebuild trust with citizens, i think your consultation project in the member states is very important. i see that as really democracy building, very important, but i think the housing issue is crucial because if we want to keep in touch with our citizens, we need to understand properly and account for the serious issues that they face in society. i think that we really need to look at this. it’s an emerging serious social and economic issue across many, many member states and i think it’s one where you and the ecb could have a very crucial role to play in terms of leadership and understanding and looking at alternative solutions.
mr president, just to say at the outset, madame lagarde, i want to raise the issue of the stability and growth pact and the restrictive practice that it has on european economies and their ability to invest in both the green deal, but in just normal fiscal stimulus that is required to stimulate the broader economies of the european union. and i think in that context, the eu commission is carrying out a review of the stability and growth pact in the near future, and i’m wondering whether or not the ecb will have an official role in observing that particular review and having input into that particular review. because we have to accept that if we want to create a dynamic european economy, i believe that the stability and growth pact is too restrictive on the ability of governments to invest in the economic aspects of economies across the eurozone. finally, i would ask that you would also look at irish banks and the interest rates that they are charging for mortgages and small and medium-sized businesses. bearing in mind we’re in the eurozone and our banks are charging two to three times the interest rates that the rest of europe pays in mortgages and lending to small and medium-sized businesses.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, nine of the ten speakers are spanish. i ask the promoters of this initiative - and the chamber is almost empty - do they still think this is a european debate? aren't you making a fool of yourself? do you intend to continue to use this chamber to make disloyal opposition to the government of spain? ladies and gentlemen of the epp, ciudadanos and vox, you are irresponsible and disloyal and are seriously damaging the image of spain in this parliament. you have not thought for a minute about the venezuelan people, that what they expect from us is support, dialogue, unity, and not division and confrontation. the government of spain has acted and is acting as a recognized interlocutor between the government and the venezuelan opposition to achieve a political, democratic and negotiated solution leading to free and fair elections. and at that moment, at that moment, the european parliament will act by sending an electoral mission. please learn to work in this house and don't make a fool of yourselves. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to put a question to the last speaker. he says that the european union is doing the right thing by recognising spain’s position here. i have no problem with spain’s position on this, but i have had a big problem with spain’s position on a lot of aspects in relation to venezuela, and in particular to the europeans’ attitude. do you not agree that the recognition of guaidó is an absolute embarrassment to anyone who has to occupy this chamber and it is a disgrace on the part of the member states of europe that so many of them have recognised an unelected gobshite?
mr. president, it seems i'm the only foreigner in this debate. i mean, we have the debate today because yesterday the majority of this house voted in favour of this debate. and i regret that this has become a spanish national debate, when it is a question of european sanctions and the credibility of the european union is at stake. this case seriously undermines our credibility with the venezuelan citizens who expect justice and our support. you, especially those who were here in the last term, will know that every time we have a debate on venezuela, i have said the same thing: selective sanctions. it took three years before the council finally took the first step. selective sanctions are the strongest peaceful tool we have to pressure the regime to negotiate and stop the violent repression against venezuelans. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. you voted against the investigation in the spanish congress today. that's why we have the debate. and, as i have already said, it is a european problem, it is the european sanctions and it is the european credibility vis-à-vis the citizens of venezuela.
mr president, the credibility of the european union is undoubtedly at stake. the credibility of this house, which is now monitoring the work of national governments. because that's what we're debating here today. it is not as if borrell had said today that it is the member states and governments who are competent to apply sanctions. it's just been said by a dozen spokesmen over the last few weeks. a european commission which, by the way, has members of the european people's party and the liberals who have repeated the same message to them over and over again. and, moreover, it is worth remembering today that this debate shows us what? that you care little for spain and nothing for venezuela. unfortunately, you bring the debate here to cover up your problems when it comes to monitoring and doing your job in the congress of deputies. we socialists remain committed to venezuela, and not to the political use of the pain of venezuelans, which is what you do here over and over again. the pain of a people like venezuela is not a weapon to be used for national politics here in the european parliament. (the speaker refuses to allow mr tertsch to put a question to him under the 'blue card' procedure)
we'll move on to the spontaneous verbal communications. i have more than twice the number of word messages we have time for. i will also take account of spanish colleagues, but also of non-spanish colleagues. i would like to thank mr lópez aguilar for his report. spontaneous speech
mr president, i am a canarian, close to the venezuelan people, which includes the descendants of the canarian community in venezuela. i have participated in all the debates on venezuela and i warned high representative borrell that there would be no plenary without a debate on venezuela. i voted for the resolutions which seek to support democratic change in venezuela and which call for the unity of the european parliament. but this is not a debate about venezuela, nor about the suffering of the venezuelan people. it's not even a debate about spain. it is a debate brought by those who oppose the spanish government, because they are in a minority in the congress of deputies and therefore intend to trivialize, by multiplying the debates on venezuela, the position of the european parliament, also damaging the european parliament and its credibility, which they so much invoke. because nothing damages the credibility of the european parliament's resolutions more than disunity in the european parliament, trying to criticise the spanish government over the suffering of the people of venezuela. so, gentlemen of the people's party and citizens' party, do not make a fool of yourselves or go on about the grotesque. help the venezuelan people instead of bringing a debate here that has no other objective than to criticize the government of spain.
mr president, if need be, this debate further discredits the most reactionary and unthinking right wing of this parliament. the hatred that moves them now leads them to transport spanish politics here to parliament. at the end of the day, it's all about feeding this irrational rabble. a statement which omits the inhuman consequences of the sanctions which they continue to defend for the venezuelan people and for the immigrant communities in venezuela, in particular the portuguese community. a blow that exposes them, and the european union, to international ridicule for not recognizing a government that has been successively supported by the popular vote and for insisting on supporting a puppet of trump, who has lost all credibility, even with the venezuelan opposition. and finally, those who act in this way, motivated by hatred, and only hatred, inevitably end up stumbling on their own feet, as has been demonstrated in this debate.
mr president, i think it’s an absolute joke, actually, that we are here discussing this nonsense. i’ve been very open in my criticism of the spanish government in different situations, so now, when they do something that’s correct, i will be equally forthright in welcoming the initiative that they took, and in their stance in supporting dialogue in this situation. how else do you think that this situation is going to be resolved! we should be discussing here, actually, the situation where we have supported the imaginary president juan guaidó, the chosen one of a nakedly us-backed coup, a defeated attempt, a crowd who have been exposed for embezzling the humanitarian aid and squandering it. we should be dealing here with the impact of the sanctions on the people of venezuela, the hardship that that has caused, the difficulties there. that is not something that any of us should be standing over – we should be working to end that nightmare. i salute the efforts that have been taken, and i condemn the initiatives taken here to derail that project.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank all of you. we know this is a very divisive issue. it is in the council and it is in the parliament. but i would like to remind you that i’m not expressing my personal opinion. my job is to be the high representative of the council and i have to represent what i think is the opinion of the council. mr zver, i haven’t said that this statement was the position of the european union. i precisely said – and you should have listened to me – that since it was not unanimous – and it is in the records – i could not present an agreement of the council. it was a statement of the high representative, representing whom? representing the 25 member states who agreed with the statement. i said very clearly – you didn’t notice – so i will repeat it. it was not a statement of the european union. it was a statement of the high representative and was not unanimous. mr zver, why did i go to iran? because i have a mandate – a unanimous mandate – from the member states of the council asking me to go and talk with everyone in the broader region of the far middle east to try to see if there is any possibility for us, the european union, to contribute to increasing stability and peace in the region. i have a mandate to go and talk to everybody. everybody means everybody, and i have been talking with the foreign affairs minister of saudi arabia, i went to jordan, i have been talking with the emirates, i went to tehran and i will go to iraq in order to have a look at what we europeans can do in order to contribute, if we can, to the peace and stability of this region. i am sorry, mr zver. i was confused. it was not you who spoke about what was or was not in the statement of the european union. i think it was our colleague, mr ruissen. sorry, i made a mistake. so my answer was directed to mr ruissen. my answer to you was relating to what i did in iran. for sure we talked with the iranians about everything that worries them and that worries us, but the main purpose was to ask what we can do in order to save the nuclear deal and what we can do in order to stabilise the region. we didn’t spend much time talking about the israeli—palestinian issue because the iranians are very much aware that they have nothing to say on that problem. another member – i think it was ms kempa – asked with whom i have been talking in the usa. well, with the most prominent people, with secretary of state pompeo, with the national security advisor, mr o’brien, with mr kushner, the author of the plan, and with ms nancy pelosi. and for sure the first three were very much in favour of their plan, while ms nancy pelosi, who as you know is a democrat, was very critical of it. as i say, i am not expressing my opinion. in fact my opinion is of no interest here. i am expressing the majority of the council, and the majority of the council has supported the statement in which we sent a message saying that, first, everybody has to refrain from any unilateral actions contrary to international law which could exacerbate tensions further. we are asking that no one annexes the jordan valley. yet this may happen. if it happens, you can be sure that it is not going to be peaceful. maybe for some it doesn’t matter, but for us it matters a lot because we cannot provoke a wave of violence – another wave of violence – in palestine. we are asking palestinians to keep calm and not go to violent demonstrations. we asked for the proposal to be considered as a starting point and i said clearly that maybe it could break the stalemate and create the dynamics in which we can go and talk again about what we can do in order to look for a solution to this very old, damaging and painful problem. i am not denying the possibility of this being a starting point. what i am denying is not this possibility, but the fact that it is being considered as an end point because, if i tell you ‘come and negotiate, but i’ll tell you one thing. if we don’t agree, i will implement my proposal anyway.’ – this is not a big incentive to negotiate. ‘come and negotiate but be aware that, if you don’t agree with me, i will implement the proposal anyway.’ do you call that a negotiation? that’s what we refuse. and that is what we have been saying. and believe me, we invited secretary of state pompeo to come to the foreign affairs council to explain directly to all member states their proposal. i know that there are some who are closer to this position and others who are very far away from it. i know that there is not going to be a unanimous position on this. it’s too divisive. but we have to discuss and we have to look, if not for unanimity, for the majority – whatever it is – and, believe me, i don’t think the majority of the member states of the european union are considering this proposal as a good starting point. but we’ll do our best and talk with everyone in order to try to break this stalemate and push for negotiations. some very optimistic people asked me why we don’t try to do something like we did many years ago in madrid – the oslo process and the madrid process. i think we have the commitment to do something. we cannot just refuse. we cannot say that’s not good enough. we have to look for something that works and this is going to be part of the discussions that we are going to have next monday in the foreign affairs council.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the trump plan is an aggression against the palestinian people and international law. this plan is part of the warmongering escalation of us imperialism and the zionist regime in israel, which is serving a strategy of destabilization, provocation and domination, which could have serious consequences for the peoples of the middle east and the world. this plan violates decades of un resolutions which recognize and enshrine the national rights of the palestinian people. it is attempting to legitimize decades of occupation and terror against the palestinian people, by providing, among other unacceptable measures, for the effective occupation and annexation by israel of jerusalem and about half of the west bank, as well as the legalization and territorial continuity of israeli settlements built on palestinian territory, the trump administration's plan has as its main objective to impose a new and more serious level on the occupation and annexation by israel of palestinian territories, and the abandonment of the two-state solution, with the 1967 borders and the capital of palestine in east jerusalem. the trump plan constitutes a very serious abandonment of any prospect for a just, negotiated and lasting solution to the palestinian question. he deserves a quick and unequivocal repudiation. we here underline the importance of unity and solidarity around the palestinian cause.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the security situation in syria (2020/2560 ((rsp)). again, i would like to remind you that you can apply for spontaneous and 'blue card' communications both in the traditional way and electronically. the instructions are to be found at the entrance to the chamber.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the war in syria is now in its ninth year. it is the most severe humanitarian catastrophe and security crisis; it is unfolding right now in the north-west of the country, and in other parts of syria we continue to see instability and dramatic human suffering. last thursday, we heard the united nations special envoy geir pedersen and the head of the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (ocha) mark lowcock briefing the united nations security council on the situation in idlib. they described how regime forces led by russia and iran are launching heavy military offensives with no regard for the civilian population or civilian infrastructure. ‘we appear to have lost sight of the principle of proportionality’, the united nations special envoy said. the intensification of military operations in idlib has resulted in the indiscriminate killing of hundreds of civilians. attacks continue on civilian targets in densely populated areas, on medical facilities and settlements for internationally displaced people. these are blatant and serious violations of international humanitarian law. there has to be accountability for those responsible. since military operations began in idlib in february 2019, one year ago, more than one million people have been displaced towards turkey – we are talking about one million displaced people in one year – and every day more syrians are fleeing the fighting and another wave of refugees is quite possibly in the making. we also see clashes between the syrian regime and turkish forces, plus the risk of turkish and russian militaries confronting each other. these tensions could in turn trigger a wider regional conflict. the ceasefire agreed between ankara and moscow must be implemented. this is the situation. now, let me say this. after almost a decade of violence, the suffering of the syrian people at the hands of the regime and its backers must cease. too many people have died and those that are alive face a bleak future. the eu has major stakes in syria, and in the surrounding region. we cannot afford more regional instability and another migrant crisis. we must avoid a resurgence of daesh and other terrorist organisations on europe’s doorstep. the eu has a duty to preserve the rules-based international order, including the legitimacy of the united nations security council. yes, i know, we say that again and again, and we have to continue saying that. recent military gains by the syrian regime are not translating into stability. on the contrary, the syrian regime will not bring peace and stability to syria if it continues to pursue on military logic and the repression of its people. the economic situation is deteriorating rapidly, exacerbated by the banking crashes in lebanon. the regime must change its behaviour. we have stated from the very beginning that only a comprehensive and inclusive political solution, in line with united nations security council resolution 2254, will allow sustainable peace and stability in syria and the region. the eu will continue to support the efforts of united nations special envoy pedersen in relaunching the constitutional committee in geneva. we also need to focus on other parts of this resolution, such as a nationwide ceasefire, the release of detainees, and making progress on the file of missing persons. let’s recall that the european union is, and remains, the largest humanitarian donor to syria and its people, both inside, and to syrian refugees and host communities in neighbourhood countries. we are supporting the resilience of ordinary civilians and civil society to maintain the social fabric of syrian society. we are convinced that our support is a fundamental investment – it is not an expenditure, it is an investment – in the future of syria and the region, which is part of our future, and as a partner of the global coalition to defeat daesh the eu is conducting stabilisation projects in the north-east of syria. we are always prepared to do more on all these lines of action, within the limits of our common red lines. these are: no normalisation with the regime, no risking of our funding being diverted to the regime or to the terrorists, and no reconstruction before a political process is firmly under way. we will continue to apply european union sanctions targeting individuals and entities associated with the regime and responsible for its repressive and inhuman policies – and not the syrian people. as i said before, the conflict in syria is a geopolitical struggle. the european union has a responsibility to lead for the sake of the syrian people and to protect our own interests. while difficult, we must redouble our efforts to identify common interests with our other international stakeholders – russia, the us, turkey and others – and maybe i will have occasion to update on our discussions with washington about this issue.
for the ppe group. madam president, mr. high representative, thank you for your report. the war in syria, as you mentioned, is now in its ninth year. idlib province is the last battlefield of the syrian conflict, where assad is apparently dealing with the opposition and consolidating his power. civilians are fleeing assad's government troops to the turkish border, which is impenetrable and according to humanitarian organizations, there are about a million people trapped there, some of them displaced repeatedly. i agree that the eu must provide humanitarian aid to these people and i also call for projects in the conflict-affected provinces to continue. we know that approximately 70% of the civilians fleeing are women and children. that is why i want to call on the eu to continue to support the education of children, even in the very difficult conditions of the refugee camps. we know it's important that these kids don't lose perspective, but it's not a solution that we have to go after long-term. at this point, the fate of idlib depends on negotiations between damascus, moscow, ankara and the united states, and i want to ask: what role does the eu play and will it play? you have very correctly mentioned the role of the united nations. i think the long-term solution has to be in the hands of the un. the sanctions and the humanitarian aid that the eu is pushing are in place, but i call for a much stronger eu role for a long-term settlement in syria.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the title of today’s debate on the security situation in syria carries with it the painful irony of reality because, colleagues, the reality is that there is no security in syria. there is no security for the millions of civilians first bussed into the province and now besieged, bombed and starved in idlib. there is only despair, destruction and death for the injured in the sixty-eight attacked hospitals, for the 373 killed, for the 700 000 refugees stuck in the freezing mud with no place to go, no clothes and no food. once again the syrian regime, and its russian and iranian backers, are using their inhumane tactics. by explicitly targeting civilians and hospitals, they act in direct violation of humanity. colleagues, i hope one day soon we will see bashar assad in my city – the hague – so some justice can at least be done to the suffering of millions of syrians.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we have known since 2018 that idlib is under enormous pressure, a crucial stronghold of resistance against the assad regime. america failed the syrian people in october last year. and europe has never done anything for these democratic resistance groups, we must be honest about that. we are now in a hopeless conflict. everybody here says it: a proxy war between russia and turkey, with millions of people on the run. the question of what europe can and must do is, of course, easier to ask than to answer. i'm very aware of that. but europe, let us be honest, has let the whole thing rot. because we have given putin and trump free rein and that is why we are now in this very insecure situation. what has played a part in this, and we must say this clearly, is the division in the council. with, among others, the italian government seeking to reach out to assad. i do not blame the italians, but i do blame europe for not being united in this respect. europe can only contribute to a lasting solution if we have one strategy, one strategy that we implement together. time is of the essence, because both turkey and israel have reasons to loosen their grip on assad. europe must therefore come up with a new plan very quickly and increase its commitment, with the first objective for me - perhaps the first and only objective - a ceasefire. the people, the children, have a right to it.
on behalf of the ecr group. dear madam president, dear colleagues, dear mr high representative, i hear many of you asking what europe should do and why it is not doing anything. your honor, you know very well that nothing can be done on your part, and that none of your governments will do anything. as long as you sell arms to saudi arabia. as long as you turn a blind eye to a dictator like erdogan. as long as you pretend that there are moderate islamists, you will do nothing except this debate here, which is pure and simple guilt-washing and a waste of time. because, your honor, you know perfectly well that the moderate islamists are beheading christians in syria. you know perfectly well that these groups that fund your governments are actually war criminals. until then, as long as you support them, you can't do anything, i'm sorry. you're wasting your time, you're wasting the time of the european taxpayers.
blue-card question. – madam president, i’d just like to ask the last speaker, does he not accept the role that the eu, the us, saudi arabia, uae have played in destabilising the region? do you not accept the fact that this is a war made by interference by these powers? you arm the jihadists with the hope that they destabilise syria; you went for regime change. it’s a nonsense to suggest that the kurds are even fighting the syrians. the kurds have their problems with turkey, not with assad’s regime. it’s absolute nonsense. the eu has blood on its hands.
madam president, the syrian army is making progress against the turkey- and us-backed jihadists in idlib province. the syrian government is restoring its own borders and finding troves of us-made weapons as the jihadists flee. idlib province was controlled by al qaeda local affiliates for years. these genocidal fanatics were armed, trained and given logistical assistance by the us, britain, turkey, france, saudi arabia and the uae under obama’s timber sycamore programme. this helped prolong the war for several years and resulted in hundreds of thousands of deaths that were unnecessary. the eu is now calling for unrestricted access for humanitarian aid to idlib province. you are imposing sanctions that are causing untold hardship on the syrian people. you let these jihadists into the place: why won’t you take them back out of it? you do not want them now. you were offered them; you won’t take them.
madam president, there’s no doubt about it, the syrian people have been suffering for nine years and more. but why did it happen? because the discontent of the people against the assad government was hijacked by international players to try and achieve regime change. armed by the us and some eu member states, jihadists poured into their country through turkey. and ten years on, they weren’t able to overthrow the government, who have regained control. and as they regained control they settled with people: some agreed to come back to the government, some didn’t and went to idlib. so this day was always going to come. and there is an irony, when we talk about foreign fighters who came from countries here, and we won’t take them back, but we expect the syrians to deal with them. the key issue here is ending the sanctions, sitting down with the syrian government, and restoring peace in that country. take responsibility for europe’s role in this disaster and acknowledge the role of the syrian government in stopping the jihadists and the rise of isis.
madam president, madam commissioner, i welcome your statement when you said you went with ms von der leyen to africa, to hear africa. i think that was a very important trip and, as you said, it’s a continent full of youth, confidence and potential. i think it’s very important at this stage that we would review and have a look at the cooperation and the operations between the european union and africa. i think there has been success there but now, in times when we have developed sustainable development goals, when we have the paris climate change agreement, it is time for a renewed focus on that relationship. i particularly think the issues around high-level unemployment is somewhere where europe can act in facilitating and supporting job development and creation. i have visited the continent myself on a number of occasions in the previous mandate, and there is certainly a lot that europe can do in supporting indigenous industries, in developing jobs there, and certainly through education also. so at this point, i think it’s very positive for europe that we would develop with our neighbours, africa, a renewed strategy.
madam president, i think the eu strategy on africa can be loosely summed up as a lot of very nice soft language – we talk about empowerment, we talk about development, we talk about equality – but really in many ways they are just a figleaf for the imposition of neoliberal globalisation. we see it in many of the trade arrangements, where the least-developed countries in the acp lose their non-reciprocal tariff exemptions and preferences, but meanwhile european, particularly the agricultural file and so on, keeps its protectionist mechanisms that we have adopted for ourselves. i think that neoliberal trade agreements aren’t the only feature of an unbalanced eu-africa relationship. i think of particular concern is the growing military presence in that area, particularly in the sahel, led by the french, backing up as a permanent aid to dictators in that region in order to try and support their french interests in raw materials and cheap labour. that isn’t good enough when we’re talking about equality.
madam president, if the eu wants to sufficiently fund the green deal, clean food production, cohesion and maintain peace, we should take the opportunity presented by the exit of the uk, one of its most militaristic and belligerent members, and we should use the opportunity to move away from the mindless militarisation of europe. we should scrap the european defence fund, the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) and other measures that have been brought forward and propelled by those that have been the victim of corporate capture by the military-industrial complex. even the european court of auditors have said that it is a waste of money. if we want our farmers to move away from the use of chemicals and pesticides and towards the production of clean food, we must help them to do so. it will cost money. we must stop enriching the bigger farmers that don’t need our help and instead fund the farmers that do need our help to produce cleaner food and to survive in the process. we don’t need a bigger budget, but we need a much better budget. and the notion that we are increasing defence spend at the expense of the citizens of europe is not acceptable.
mr glucksmann, thank you for bringing that to our attention. we will indeed look at the transcript and advise the president about this. mr mariani, on a point of order.
this is not a debate on mr glucksmann’s intervention. i will continue with the order of our business. that point is now covered. we will move on.
i now have to read a statement which will generate the ire of some colleagues, so i will do it in a calm way and please just listen to what i have to say. i am obliged to remind members that under the rules of procedure, the display of banners and flags is not allowed. i would invite the ushers to ask those members who have flags to remove them from the desk, or indeed i would invite colleagues to respect the rules of procedure as i have just outlined.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
madam president, this deal will boost our trade exchanges and will deliver more jobs and growth into this continent. we badly need more jobs for people within europe and we must support job creation and innovation. i want to say that i believe that closing the door does not get any closer to improving vietnam’s human rights record or indeed the policies and attitudes on climate change. the un and some ngos have already acknowledged the improvements and indeed there is a chapter on workers’ rights in the agreement, which is fully compliant with ilo standards. so we want to engage rather than isolate and, of course, we still have to be very cognisant in relation to human rights and climate change and there has to be ongoing monitoring. this is also allowed for. we do need to keep our businesses and get our businesses involved in new regions and countries, and of course this is the way that we spread the standards and the values of the european union.
madam president, i would like to explain why i abstained on this free trade agreement. i generally support - and i support very strongly - the free trade agreement, because i know that it is a great bilateral opportunity. at the same time, i am also aware that this agreement does a fairly good job of dealing with the provisions concerning labour standards, working conditions, the environment, but unfortunately this agreement did not provide a strong enough impetus for the vietnamese government to release at least some political prisoners. there are 140 political prisoners in vietnam, and the vietnamese government was not willing to make this gesture, which would have made it clear that they were serious about improving human rights. i am not against this agreement, i voted for its postponement and finally abstained precisely to make clear our clear position on human rights in vietnam.
madam president, if the situation regarding human rights in vietnam has improved so much, then how is it that journalist pham chi dung is detained in prison now on anti-state charges for having the audacity of what? contacting this parliament and asking us to postpone the vote. seriously. and for those people who say, ‘oh well, sure, look, if we don’t do business with them, how can the situation ever improve?’ that’s an affront to the tons of people who’ve contacted us and begged us to postpone this vote. it’s an outrage that we have betrayed them and that’s why i stood by them and voted against this agreement. for that reason and, critically, because we’ve just shown ourselves up as being an absolute bunch of hypocrites. we passed a resolution on 15 january, regarding the european green deal, saying we would only enter trade agreements with strong, binding, enforceable agreements on sustainable development and the paris agreement. we’ve done the complete opposite here. shame on us.
madam president, it was not an easy decision to make in this case. for those of us who come from former communist countries, to make a trade agreement with a communist country is really very difficult because of the human rights issue. i finally decided to go for it because the positives, in my opinion, are predominant. it is, of course, better to do business according to the rules, according to certain guaranteed standards than without rules, without any possibility of influencing the internal affairs of a country, and let's admit that in the current situation we are already cooperating with vietnam. i firmly believe that this trade exchange will have growing potential even while maintaining environmental standards, and i also hope that the protection of investments, the protection of the country of origin will be really respected. all the positive steps that were contained in those proposals. so i supported them, albeit with a less than light hand.
madam president, this agreement has a lot in common with many free trade deals before it, like ceta, the japan and south korea agreements, and mercosur. these deals have much the same effect. the scant protections the eu still has in place are routinely undermined in the name of free trade, and the climate, our health and our indigenous industries always suffer. as the commission is a revolving-door catastrophe, we see the powers of the corporate sector all over these deals, again and again, with a scant look in for those looking to protect workers’ rights and stop this being used as a back door to a further race to the bottom that would devour the planet and ensure that we see climate system breakdown in our lifetime. this system of unfettered capitalism is locking us into the corrosion of environmental protections and public health standards, and the attached system of globalised trade is sending carbon emissions skyrocketing as we ferry the cheapest (meaning the most exploitative) goods around the planet in order that corporations make buckets of money. there’s no such thing as a free trade deal. this system is costing us the earth.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution, and i also spoke on this particular issue in 2011 when ireland brought forward legislation to the parliament to ban this insidious barbaric act. regardless of culture, religion or creed, this is something that goes against the fundamental principles of bodily integrity and of right to life and a right to health, so from all these perspectives, i welcome the resolution, and i ask the commission, and i ask member states in particular across the european union, to ensure that legislation is robust in national parliaments to address this particular issue, to ensure that there are prosecutions of people who partake in female genital mutilation and encourage it and facilitate it. equally, we have to ensure that we have in place support through our health services so that victims – people who have been genitally mutilated – have the confidence to seek support, to seek assistance if they need it in the context of the damage that it does to their health. i commend the motion and i ask national parliaments to endorse it as well in legislation.
madam president, i support this resolution. i am delighted to see so many people in the european parliament supporting it. fgm is an act of physical, sexual, and psychological violence and mostly carried out against infants and young girls up to the age of 15 years of age, and of course beyond. there are 200 million worldwide. it’s not something that just happens, for example, on the african continent. people often think of that, although 97% of women in guinea have undergone fgm, including 45% of girls below 14, and in ethiopia 65% of women, but of course it is happening in countries around the world. it is happening in indonesia, malaysia, south america and so on, and here in europe. let’s remember that 180 000 young girls, attending our schools, attending our youth clubs and involved in our communities are at risk of fgm in europe. we have to take action to make sure that we have zero tolerance. i’m delighted to see across continents – and we saw this in nairobi at the recent conference – young boys and men working to eliminate fgm. that’s also very important. we have to have this comprehensive strategy to end fgm now.
madam president, the shift towards automated decision-making and artificial intelligence will change the way in which consumer markets and our societies in general function. we need to ensure that people are protected from unfair or discriminatory commercial practices and we need to ensure that these processes are transparent and do not involve profiling. in this respect, auditing of automated decision-making should be carried out by independent third parties. people need to be able to contest these types of decisions. the commission needs to ensure that the eu safety and liability frameworks are fit for purpose and that market watchdogs and other competent authorities are properly resourced and empowered to act. we need to be extremely wary of the concentration of data in the hands of a few private companies and we need to adhere to the principles of the gdpr, specifically in terms of purpose limitation and privacy by design.
madam president, artificial intelligence makes it possible to process much more data than humans can do in a fraction of the time. it’s becoming increasingly common in finance, healthcare, education and the legal system. it’s increasingly evolving algorithmic decision systems. in many situations, the impact of the decision on people can be significant, such as access to credit, employment, medical treatment and judicial sentences. so i was happy to support this resolution, as it urges the commission to examine whether additional measures are needed in order to guarantee a strong set of rights to protect consumers in ai decision-making; to ensure that consumers are protected from unfair and discriminatory practices, as well as from the risks entailed by ai-driven professional services; to guarantee greater transparency in these processes; and to ensure that only high-quality and non-biased data sets are used in algorithmic decision-making systems. the bottom line is we need to ensure that eu rules on safety and liability for products and services are fit for the digital age.
madam president, just to say at the outset: i welcome the opportunity to speak on this very important issue, particularly in the context of ireland itself and the citizens in northern ireland, in particular. while this is primarily about a trade deal with the uk and the european union over the next number of months, it is critically important that irish citizens are kept at the heart of this particular debate. there are hundreds of thousands of irish citizens – who are european union citizens as well – who are now living in northern ireland, outside of the european union. i think that we have to when debating these issues – and i make no apologies for consistently raising the concerns of many irish citizens living in northern ireland, so it must be at the heart of it. the integrity of the good friday agreement must be upheld in any future deal as well. finally, professional qualification recognition is something that will have to be to the fore to ensure that people can work on both sides of the border and that professional qualifications are recognised on both sides – in the uk and the european union – and that is critically important to the free movement of people on the island of ireland.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution establishing the european parliament’s position on the future relationship between the uk and the european union. establishing a new trade agreement with the uk must be of the utmost importance to the eu in this period, ensuring that as close and prosperous a relationship as possible can be established. this will of course require commitment from both sides and it’s certainly not helped by ambivalent statements that we hear at times from the uk. it will be key for the european union, but particularly for ireland and northern ireland and i welcome the ambition in this resolution to see such a relationship through a level playing field as part of an economic partnership and i hope that we can work with the uk, to ensure that we have a close and mutually beneficial relationship. i stress mutually beneficial because the uk’s trade with the eu is very substantial. what is even more crucial is the continued preservation of the peace in northern ireland. the final agreement cannot in any way jeopardise the peace established by the good friday agreement, and the final future relationship can in no way undo what has been previously agreed to in the withdrawal agreement and that will need ongoing monitoring in the months ahead.
madam president! after brexit, the eu-uk relationship needs to be settled. this resolution contains the european parliament's recommendations to the commission for negotiating a new partnership with the united kingdom. the resolution covers a wide range of policies, focusing on three main categories: economic partnership, sectoral and thematic cooperation, and security and foreign affairs partnership. while it is clear that a non-eu country cannot have the same privileges, rights or benefits as a member state, we must remember that the future relationship between the uk and the eu should be as cooperative as possible. the uk even though it is outside the eu remains a great european country linked to other european countries by history, economy and security cooperation. it is in the interests of both the union and the united kingdom that our relationship be as good as it can be. that's why i voted to pass this resolution.
madam president, although i did not agree with the uk leaving, i have no choice but to vote for a mandate that will allow for an agreement with the uk on future cooperation, a partnership. i think it is important that the ep has found very broad agreement on this across the political spectrum and across countries, and that the eu remains united on this. i am also very pleased that we agree that this cooperation must be as close as possible. the ep takes note of the uk's decision to conclude a free trade agreement with the eu and we of course make sure that these obstacles are as low as possible and we will require that access for food and agricultural products to the internal market be conditional on compliance with all internal standards requirements for quality, safety, labelling, restricted use of pesticides, etc. the ep calls for the rights of eu citizens and their families living in britain and coming from the eu to be preserved.
madam president, i too supported this mandate and i consider two things very important in the mandate. first, we speak clearly about the rights of citizens, of citizens of our countries, but also about the rights of britons, about their right to free movement. this must be clearly confirmed by future relations and thus be beneficial to our citizens. there are 30,000 czech citizens in the uk and our aim is to provide them with maximum protection and support. besides, then there is the free trade agreement itself, which must be set up in such a way that it is beneficial for both parties, for exporters from both sides. in short, we must do everything we can to ensure that eu exports to the uk are not harmed by brexit. a number of companies from the czech republic export to the uk and we must do everything to ensure that these companies and their business interests are not harmed.
madam president, i was unhappy about brexit and i have to say i wish the uk a lot of success, but i supported this mandate for many reasons. firstly, i believe that the risk of a hard brexit is not yet averted, because unfortunately the british prime minister has a very particular approach to these post-brexit negotiations and i do not think it is possible to say that we are capable of agreeing to trade relations with the uk at any cost. as mrs sjödröm has already said, there are a number of requirements which we must insist on. there are a number of sensitive areas, the safeguarding of the rights of the republic of ireland, the issue of northern ireland, agricultural products, meeting standards, these are things that we will have to monitor. and i think we should not be blackmailed by the deadline for the conclusion of these negotiations, which is to be at the end of this year, and in addition a number of regional parliaments are to be involved in these negotiations. i think that's something we have to consider very carefully, and we don't have to be pushed into a corner.
madam president, i voted in favour of today's resolution because we need a comprehensive agreement between the united kingdom and the european union. michel barnier must continue his good work to find common ground with the european union, but also to deepen relations between us and the united kingdom... (the president interrupts the speaker) thank you, madam president, i voted in favour of today's resolution because we need a comprehensive agreement between the united kingdom and the european union. i find her ambitious and profound. let's remember in whose name brexit happened. the most important of these was that the uk could sign the so-called 'big trade deals' on its own. this is what the european union itself offers: a comprehensive and fair trade deal, free of tariffs, quotas, but also free of dumping and lowering european standards. but prime minister johnson wants something else, a canadian-style deal or even, i hear, an australian-style deal. in one case there are restrictions, in the other there are wto rules. this is the place to say, whatever deal there is between the uk and the eu, it will be a third country for us. it's important that we continue our cooperation. the challenges ahead will require it more and more.
madam president, the future trade agreement – when and if it is finalised – must have the approval of this parliament and so i welcome the resolution today that i supported that sets out our priorities and what we see should be included in that agreement. particularly the good friday agreement and the unique situation that exists on the island of ireland must be protected. the common travel area between ireland and the united kingdom, mentioned by the commission in setting out their mandate for negotiations, must also be recognised. and a significant trade deal that would be mutually beneficial is needed for both sides. we need to ensure that european companies are not disadvantaged and put at a competitive disadvantage and we need to protect european consumers as well and recognise that this is unique; it’s with the sixth largest economy in the world, a former member of the european union and a close neighbour.
madam president, i too am pleased to support this important resolution on the draft negotiating mandate. this is a key step towards the opening of negotiations in the future eu—uk relationship. it is very welcome that the draft reflects the breadth and ambition of the scope of the political declaration for a broad and deep partnership with the uk. it is also important that the effective implementation of the withdrawal agreement continues in parallel with the negotiation of the future relationship and that this is reflected in the mandate. there is a continuing focus in the draft mandate on protecting the good friday agreement and the common travel area. protecting the good friday agreement and maintaining the common travel area in all circumstances continue to be key priorities for ireland and also, thankfully, for the eu 27. i thank my colleagues for their continued support of irish priorities and i am hopeful that, with genuine cooperation from the united kingdom, a good outcome can be reached.
madam president, the irish central bank is still destroying the eur 31 billion promissory note bonds that resulted from the bank bailout in 2008. the banks in question were eventually liquidated, but the european central bank (ecb) still insist that the entire eur 31 billion be taken out of circulation by the irish central bank. irish people have suffered a decade of austerity and as head of the international monetary fund (imf) at the time, ms lagarde was front and centre of this imposition of austerity on ireland. the eurozone crisis also provided an excuse for the previous head of the ecb, mr mario draghi, to introduce a fiscal compact in 2012. it institutionalised and made permanent what were supposed to be emergency austerity programmes. it accomplished a lifelong neoliberal dream – the complete separation between the democratic process and economic policies. as germany’s finance minister said in 2015 elections change nothing, there are rules. the ecb and ms lagarde as managing director of the imf, brought ireland to its knees. i don’t recall any ecb annual report in recent years mentioning this. it should never be forgotten. of course we opposed it.
madam president, i was very glad to see madame lagarde here yesterday and very disappointed that i didn’t get the chance to put these points to her myself, because she is, of course, a household name in ireland from her role in the imf and the crushing austerity imposed on the citizens of ireland. the result of that has been, in effect, a lost decade. the official cost of the bailout was eur 64.6 billion, but the human cost is still being paid: the welfare cuts, the housing crisis, infant malnutrition, dying family members on hospital trolleys, and a generation of young people who left our shores. but last weekend the price was paid back by the irish citizens when fianna fáil and fine gael, the two ruling parties responsible for that austerity, were given an almighty hammering in the election, and i think that is the face of things to come. the neoliberalism at the heart of the ecb is something that will not be tolerated by citizens.
madam president, just to say at the outset that i welcome the opportunity to speak on this particular resolution, and i would ask that immediate steps be taken by the commission to address the issue of illegal trade in cats and dogs, primarily in the context of industrial-scale breeding farms across the european union whereby animals are incarcerated for years and years and years just to produce puppy dogs and kittens. i believe we have an obligation as a civilised society to, at the very least, ensure there is some form of registration of these particular puppy farms and cat farms, that this trade is registered in some way and that there are regulations governing it. there’s no doubt that there is a large criminal element involved in the smuggling and moving of animals within the european union. it has public health implications, but most importantly of all it is an animal cruelty issue, it is an animal welfare issue, and the commission itself must ensure that the internal market governs these particular farms to ensure that there are standards of decency in them.
madam president, i am absolutely delighted to be able to support this motion and to really welcome the initiative taken to address the illegal pet trade, which is a phenomenal problem in ireland, actually, where a number of individuals have been finally brought to court for treating animals so appallingly and for their own private profit. this issue has evoked huge sympathy from the irish public and grave concern about the lack of enforcement by our regulatory authority. i do think that the motion was very much strengthened by the addition of the amendments calling for mandatory identification and registration, which will be an assist, but also calling on the commission and member states to take measures to prohibit breeding and marketing practices that are detrimental to the health and welfare of these animals. this is a great step forward and i’m delighted to be able to support it.
madam president, i welcome the publication of the gender equality strategy. promoting gender equality needs to be enshrined as a core activity for the eu. equality between men and women is fundamental to our shared european values and goals. as our society evolves, it is imperative that we enshrine the principle of consent in our shared values. as many colleagues have already shared right now, violence against women and coercive control are problems that can only be tackled when we face them head on. not only do we need to put support in place to help women affected, but we also need to address the root causes through education and social development. women must never feel threatened or coerced over the decisions they make in their lives. promoting women’s equal status in our society is fundamental to creating a vibrant and tolerant union. thank you, commissioner dalli, for taking the lead on this, for driving it and i also want to acknowledge the many male colleagues that we have in the chamber right now. thank you for putting your support behind this because if we don’t work together it is going to fall on deaf ears.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner dalli for coming here today to outline the future gender equality strategy. it’s extremely important. it’s a very good time. we have the political commitment at the top of the commission, and hopefully across the commission. i do want to say to you that i don’t believe that you can do this on your own. it is important that every commissioner looks at these issues, and that gender equality is mainstreamed. we can diagnose the issues very clearly. you’ve heard from all my colleagues here today. there are newer issues emerging, but there are very many issues that have been around for quite a long time. we do need to pay attention to climate change, to what’s happening in technology, to the economic empowerment of women, and to dealing with the pay gap and the pension gap. but we also have to, for example, look at the budget and the gender—proofing of all of the budget decisions. that’s also really important, but we do need binding measures, we need strict implementation, and we need monitoring.
madam president, madam commissioner, the value that the union can add to equality policies is fourfold. the first is to require minimum standards in all member countries both in anti-discrimination policies and in the prevention and suppression of inequality and especially gender-based violence. it is therefore essential to standardize the legal treatment of this problem. secondly, to improve statistics and indicators to improve the evaluation of these policies. third, to assume that the fight for equality needs global criteria but action at the level closest to the citizen, which requires incorporating the local and regional levels into this work. finally, we need to raise awareness, apply global ideas that have worked to the task of changing stereotypes and the topics that fuel inequality and that must start changing at the individual level. we just declared a climate emergency. centuries of discrimination, violence, domestic terrorism - 10 women in six weeks, in my member state alone - should encourage a european declaration of an emergency for equality.
madam chairman, women must have the same opportunities as men. it is the basis of equality in society, that all people, on equal terms, can enjoy certain life opportunities and lead lives of their own choosing. but equal opportunity does not necessarily mean equal outcomes. providing women with the opportunity to do the same jobs as men and to be paid the same does not mean that women will actually want to do more of these jobs. the differences in behavior in social roles and life choices between the sexes are not only socially conditioned but also biological. the elimination of socio-political barriers will not put a mark of equality between women and men because they simply are not and cannot be the same, but they must be equal anyway. there can be no controversy about that.
madam president, i think equality for women is a pipe dream unless women have control over their own bodies, and while i very much welcome the progress made in ireland and cyprus in other areas in terms of access to abortion, we have to be careful that in some countries there has been an attempt to roll back some of the gains, with conscientious objection being misused, with regressive preconditions being put on women’s decisions, and even attempts to ban abortion. i think this is something we must take great care of. i note that the strategy singles out women who face multiple forms of discrimination such as roma and migrant women, and i welcome that, but we should really call this out. i mean it is a scandal that we have, in bulgaria, roma women segregated in maternity hospitals, not allowed to use toilet facilities or to eat with other women. we need concrete solutions for this, we need legislation outlawing such discrimination, and we need to facilitate women in the best possible way.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i want to welcome the three speeches that we have just heard from evelyn regner earlier. these are actually a very clear outline of the priorities that we should be presenting at the un conference. the language is right, the words are right, and we can do our best to bring forward what you’ve heard here today. the priorities that people across this parliament have outlined: these are the priorities, clearly, that we have to bring to the un. what’s very clear is that progress has been made, but there are the most extraordinarily serious issues still affecting women around the world. we also have to note that, after the nairobi conference on population and development, the usa did not sign the statement or the priorities at the end of that conference, and that is very serious. this is, as you said, the 25th anniversary of hillary clinton’s famous line: ‘women’s rights are human rights, and human rights are women’s rights’. hard to believe that it actually needed to be said, but it did, and it accelerated change. there is much more to do. it is a very important year. it’s about acceleration; it’s about implementation; it’s about targets, and it’s also about monitoring. it’s also about budgets, and that has to be a particularly important element of the debates in the un this year. also, of course, we do have to watch out for attitudes that are still far too prevalent, where we see everyday sexism. that’s very important to address as well, in terms of the perception of women, the reporting on women, and so on. that is critical. just a final word on quotas: we’ve heard some criticism of them here today. what does the un say about quotas? they say they are a temporary, necessary measure. let’s face it, quotas have been operating on the side of men for quite a long time.
mr president, i’m surprised that there weren’t any blue cards after our colleague there from the ecr. the challenges we face in keeping our borders secure are immense and growing. we’ve seen an explosion in the numbers of people seeking a better life in the european union away from violence and poverty and away from climate disasters. the appalling conditions in any of the eu refugee camps, be it in any of the countries we’re talking about tonight, are under severe pressure from the people that are most vulnerable and from the people in the european union who are forgetting to support our brothers and sisters. the conditions are intolerable, and lip service is not supporting or aiding those we need to support. it cannot just be a small number of countries accommodating everybody. it needs europe’s help. the european project, dare i say, is a victim of its own success. we need to be compassionate to those who are risking their lives to come here, and we also need to find solidarity: the compassion in supporting our member states who are most seeing the influx of people coming through. i notice my time is up, and i will say we need a strategic and compassionate solution right now, commissioner, from the top down. and dare i say, one instant solution we could make is perhaps having this conversation, this much needed dialogue, in the hemicycle at a time when there’s a little bit more than 40 or 50 meps discussing it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the european people's party is very clear. we support the action of the european commission, but we ask the european commission to ensure that there is a coordinated response from all the member states of the european union as from tomorrow morning. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. that's why we need unity, we need measures. we have proposed a questionnaire to find out whether those who arrive in europe have spent days in china in the regions with the highest infection rates. it is a concrete proposal which we have made to the commission. we must move forward and if we are to avoid panic we must act quickly and concretely. one last thing . china has not done all that it should have and continues to do not all that it should. there was a lack of information, a late start. the chinese are the first victims of a system that is doing what the soviet union did with chernobyl. to hide tragedies is to create enormous damage to its own citizens. the chinese are the first victims of the chinese communist regime.
madam president, in ireland, we have over 2 000 excess winter deaths as a result of fuel poverty and a bad health service, from a population of 4.5 million. this virus has led to the deaths of over a thousand, and while i regret every one of those deaths, we have to maintain a sense of perspective and we have to, as the commissioner said, let this matter be dealt with by science and in calm, emphasising research, clinical trials, containment and close collaboration. i have to salute the efforts of the chinese, who have done their very best to contain this virus in difficult circumstances, and i think all member states have to reciprocate and redouble their efforts. the commissioner said member states have introduced a variety of measures at entry points to the eu. i have to say my own country, ireland, has been poor in that regard, but i do welcome your points to help china. i think that’s really important and to ward against the discrimination that surrounds this issue.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your report and i agree with many of the speakers. i think we need to be informed and cooperate quickly. it is all the more incomprehensible to me that china, which calls for solidarity and help, should have refused to help taiwan, which offered medical supplies and help with treatment. taiwan is a country that has one of the most developed health systems. i agree with my colleagues that we must push for taiwan to have its representation in the organs of the world health organization. i believe that health is more important than politics, and that's why i want you to verify this report, commissioner, whether it's true that china has really refused this aid. i mean, we're not resisting solidarity, quite the opposite. in the czech republic, too, a wave of solidarity has been rising, and ordinary people are sending funds and material aid to china. health is more important than politics.
madam president, it was really good to hear that the eu is ready and willing to tackle this dangerous outbreak in cooperation with member states, of course, and also that the eu is already working with china to help and assist in fighting that. let me remind you that the eu and china have been strategic partners since 2003. we have already seen some impact on the global economy and growth because of uncertainty, and because china is too important a global player. so if it is internally hit by the disease, it will also have global consequences. if the eu wants to be a global player and it wants to show global responsibility, it’s time to revive that strategic partnership, like mr bütikofer rightly pointed out, to better include china within the world health organisation (who) framework. it should also fight the general anti-chinese or anti-asian moods that have been spreading throughout europe in the last month at least, because they are very dangerous.
madam president, in 2009 the swine flu broke out in the us. it spread to 100 countries and over 10 000 died from it. this year alone in the us, 19 million people got the flu; 10 000 have died, 180 000 have been hospitalised. i actually find it amusing that the manner in which people have used this to try and undermine the chinese state is a bit scary. if the chinese have a problem with coronavirus, do you not think that they need our solidarity and our help and our cooperation? they don’t need us to panic, they don’t need us to kick them around the place because they have a problem. they built a hospital in 10 days. we wouldn’t even get the paperwork done in six months because there are so many people wanting a piece of the pie. the fact that they’re not a neoliberal state – they’ve actually been better fitted than most to actually deal with the crisis. we should be applauding them, and in fairness to the commission here, they’ve actually been pretty positive about the chinese reaction; the who have been pretty positive about it – but do you know what? for people in europe to throw stones at them and to use human rights issues and whatever to actually undermine the chinese position is pretty sickening. do you know what? we’ve a lot to learn from the chinese.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. food is life, and it is vital that we in europe, and for the sake of our planet, transform our agriculture as soon as possible to make it climate and environmental sustainable. the 'from the soil to the table' strategy for sustainable food is an important component of the green given, green deal. it's because we're using it now. food production is responsible for one-third of climate emissions. it is also the contributing factor in many of the species that we see die. and bees are particularly badly affected. it's important for our food production that we address this. there are areas for improvement, and we must address them now. our focus must be on sustainable agriculture. the eu's regulatory framework and tax money should be used to reverse the trend, not the other way around. it is about reducing greenhouse gases, but it is also about strengthening biodiversity, removing endocrine disruptors and fighting antibiotic resistance. the 'from the soil to the table' strategy means healthy food that protects the environment!
mr president, the farm to fork strategy is a massive opportunity to take a genuinely holistic approach to dealing with the crises of biodiversity, climate change, health, inequality, farming and animal welfare. the strategy leaked last month does contain a welcome reference to supporting primary producers in the transition. however, there is zero reference to a sustainable price for the primary producer. small—scale family farms are the main providers of diverse and nutritious food for 70% of the world’s population. however, these producers are increasingly threatened by the globalised industrial food system, which includes greedy processors and corporate supermarkets. in ireland, there has been a six—fold increase in the number of feedlots in the country over the last ten years. in the 1970’s, the majority of irish farms were less than 20 hectares. today they are over 32, as the big gobble up the small. during the same period, ireland has lost 140 000 family farms due to government policy and eu policy. the strategy is an opportunity to reverse the intensive industrialised approach to food production.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a delicate moment. farmers - i would like this concept to be clear - are a living economy, they are passionate, self-sacrificing, they are real workers, they represent a know-how that has been handed down through the generations and is being regenerated. i often hear about challenges from here, but i would like to remind you that farmers face a challenge every day, they fight and are ready to face new challenges, but we must make them protagonists, we cannot blame them. i would like to make it clear that we have quality agriculture here, agriculture that does not mean being in conflict with the green deal. we are well aware that the community's agricultural policy has been a defining element in the process of european union integration and that is why it is a reality compared to many other challenges that are worthwhile but that must be tried. we have a duty with this initiative to push for seasonality, for territoriality, for correct information that cannot be summarized in a traffic light and an algorithm, because behind each product there is a story and an identity of a territory.
mr president, it isn’t that often that i agree with my colleague mr wallace, but i agree with him completely in the distinction he makes between the factory feedlots and the small farms in the west of ireland and, indeed, probably in rural europe as well. those small family farms are genuine grass-based farms, producing nutritious food in the best possible environmental ways, and they are the people who will take care of the environment for us. i think that the feedlots are trading on the back of this. there’s no distinction made between their food and the food that’s produced by the genuine farmers. they’re getting huge cap payments which they neither need nor deserve. i think there’s an opportunity now, under the next cap and also under mr timmermans’ farm to fork strategy, to make that distinction so that those who are genuinely needful of support will get it, and especially those who are actually genuinely producing grass-based food, not factory lots.
a member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you very much for all your comments. i'm sorry i can't address each of them because the time i have doesn't allow me to, but it was a really very interesting and necessary debate and it's good that it's happening right now. i therefore thank mr linz and the committee on agriculture once again for this initiative. we don't have a field-to-table strategy yet, we're working on that strategy. the green group has already decided on certain directions, but we still have time to introduce many of your proposals, including those which have been rejected in this chamber. i will use this debate in my work on the strategy, insofar as it concerns my area of responsibility, and i will try to make the most of your suggestions in this work. i'll just remind you that the commissioner in charge is the commissioner for health, mrs. kyriakides. i am, of course, working on the agricultural part, and that's what we've been talking about today, because farmers are the ones who are primarily responsible for the future implementation of the strategy. and i agree with all of those things, and i also said that it has to be done with the farmers, not against the farmers, that we have to use incentives. that's why i've been talking so much about the budget, that in order to encourage, for example, farmers to reduce the use of pesticides, fertilisers, to better manage water, to do other pro-environmental things, you have to have the resources. they have to be sufficient in the first pillar, because they will be eco-programmes, they have to be measures in the second pillar of action, various environmental actions. and that's why this budget is so important. you have raised the question of order here, and i would also like to be in a situation where we have adopted strategies and now we are matching the common agricultural policy to those strategies. we are in a different situation, these assumptions of the common agricultural policy were developed back in 2018. the commission of president von der leyen is not proposing a new agricultural policy because we simply do not have the time. we want to complete the work on the common agricultural policy as quickly as possible, by adapting it, and this will be our joint work, and the cooperation between the commission, parliament and the council, to bring these rules of the common agricultural policy into line with the strategies we will adopt. the strategy and the measures it envisages are an opportunity, first and foremost, for small and mediumsized farms, those farms which are disappearing so quickly, which we are losing so quickly. and there is room in europe for different types of farms - for larger, more intensive farms, and for smaller, sometimes more extensive farms. they are particularly those smaller farms prepared for these environmental challenges, it will be easier for them to meet these conditions. the point is, if these big farms don't cause the small farms to disappear, there has to be a balance. this balance must also be in the relations between the different types of farms in european agriculture. organic farming has a great opportunity. and as part of this strategy, we're going to do everything we can to develop organic farming, not just to increase the area of these farms, but to promote consumption, to reach consumers, to show the value of this food. in general, european food, and this is our success, the success of european agriculture, is of the highest quality in the world, meets the highest standards and is an asset for the world markets. we must protect our producers, of course. many of your votes here have been about protecting the imports of our farmers. yes, we should hold ourselves to the same standards that are required of us. and there are some restrictions that come from the world trade organization and the rules that apply there. the strategic plans will be the key documents we'll be working on. i can assure you that when i evaluate the strategic plans submitted by the member states, i will do everything to ensure that there is as little red tape as possible, that red tape does not hamper the development of agriculture and that it does not make life difficult for farmers, because that sometimes happens. i can confirm that this kind of thing happens. thank you again for an interesting, very interesting discussion. i think not only us in this room, but our farmers have gotten some sense of the situation, where we're headed. i assure you once again that the european commission will do everything possible to ensure that this policy, these strategies, and both the green deal and the farm to fork strategy, are implemented with farmers, for their benefit and for the good future of agriculture in europe.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the 'farm to fork' strategy adds to farmers' concerns that they are bearing the brunt of the environmental transition. farmers are part of the solution, not the problem, to the issue of climate change. but they are just one link in the whole agro-food system, along with the processors, the traders, the consumers. as part of this system, we are all jointly responsible for our environmental impact. we need to change the way we think as consumers. are we willing to pay a higher price for food that is produced in an environmentally friendly and sustainable way? achieving the green deal goals of zero pollution and reduced use of chemical pesticides depends on our working together with farmers. if we want results, we have to work with the farmers, not against them. they should be included in the strategy debate as soon as possible. instead of constantly imposing new obligations and increasing demands, we need to think about how to incentivise them to implement green practices in their farms. new instruments are needed to finance the transition, rather than having it happen at the expense of the cap budget. we should not delay the adoption of the new cap because of the green deal, because farmers need certainty and predictability.
in writing. – irish farmers rely on cap funding for up to 56% of family farm income (teagasc national farm survey 2017). if 40% of cap is to be dedicated to climate action then the overall budget must be increased to ensure adequate and essential funding is still provided to small, family farms. additionally, outdated farm vehicles contribute more to greenhouse gases and pollution, therefore the cap should provide financial aid to farms looking to update their machinery to more environmentally friendly models, which will lessen their carbon footprint. farmers are the custodians of the land. it is in their interests for that land to be healthy and usable. they can and want to be our biggest allies in helping protect the planet, but we must bring them with us, and not alienate them. the mercosur deal is not good for farmers or for the environment. europe does not need to import beef from south america. the production and transportation of such beef would be detrimental to meeting our carbon reduction targets. we already have a supply of quality beef from member states, including ireland, and the deal makes no sense in terms of the commitments under the european green deal to implement it.
in writing. farm to fork is a worthwhile initiative. but i would like to remind you that there are other factors at play in ensuring quality agricultural production. in order to make agriculture healthy and sustainable, financial support to the sector is often necessary. the current system of eu subsidies is unfair, however, because our subsidies in estonia are much lower than those in western and southern europe. in addition, the substantially higher subsidies in the rest of europe are damaging the competitiveness of our farmers. that is why i believe that the european union's agricultural subsidies must be equalized or abolished altogether. i am absolutely not satisfied with the 'clarification' that the rest of europe will receive higher subsidies because their subsidies were once set according to ancient criteria before our accession to the european union. given that, unlike southern europe, our latitude is not capable of producing two or three harvests a year, our subsidies should be at least as high as those in western and southern europe.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on guinea, in particular violence against protesters (2020/2551 (rsp)).
mr president, alpha condé must face the fact that his plan for a third term is a source of instability for guinea and the region. the demonstrations by the opposition and civil society against this referendum resulted in a violent crackdown by the guinean security forces, who literally opened fire on unarmed protesters. the violence highlights the failure of the security forces to respond adequately to the crisis situations in the country for years. since october 2019, at least 28 civilians have been killed in these protests. in 2015, more than 70 protesters lost their lives. in this country, the opposition is gagged, freedom of speech is suppressed and the population is scared to death. we condemn this violence and urge the guinean government to improve the management of the protests in order to create a safe environment for the protesters and to investigate the perpetrators of violence and murder. we also call for the immediate release of those who have been imprisoned for exercising their fundamental right to protest. we regret the decision taken by president condé on the constitution and his third term, which could undermine the rule of law and democracy. alpha condé, once a defender of democracy and change, should remember where he came from. finally, we call on the president to work with ecowas to find a democratic solution to this political crisis, with human rights as a central pillar. we also call on the external action service to engage with guinea in dialogue and mediation to address the violence linked to these elections.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i think we need to put pressure, pressure from the european union, but not to ask, not just to pay attention, but to make our humanitarian aid, and economic aid in particular, to that country dependent on whether basic standards are being met. and the president of guinea should be reminded of the european experience of those prime ministers on our continent who lost power as a result of the referendums they held: prime minister matteo renzi in italy constitutional referendum, prime minister cameron brexit referendum. all those prime ministers stopped being prime ministers because they had a referendum. i think that might be an argument for the president of guinea.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. the uachtaráin, when a toghadh an tuachtarán alpha condé in 2010, ceapadh go raibh re nua organ dhaonlathach i ndán don ghuine. the uachtaráin is the highest executive body in the country. but like many people, when they went to power, they thought they had the power to keep it. we were down there with the men who were doing the shooting in the air. now we're going to try to change the relationship so that we can stay in power for a longer period of time. i'm not going to die. what happened? looking down at them again. i'd like to see people without. therefore, it is right and proper to go to the polls in this case today to ask the president alpha condé to make a decision to follow, so that the elections will take place now.
the s&d group is calling for the immediate release of the three former members of the un security council, who were arrested in the course of the war. the intention to hold a referendum on the constitution, coupled with the holding of legislative elections on the same date, naturally generated a wave of protests in the country, with the authorities reacting with arbitrary arrests and violent attacks, which resulted in hundreds of injuries and more than two dozen deaths. the action of opposition parties and civil society organisations has been restricted and the limits on freedom of expression and information have been tightened. the right to demonstrate has been heavily curtailed by the police forces. the european union and regional partners, such as ecowas, must be vigilant in this context and call for additional accountability and clarification regarding the escalation of state violence in the country, insisting with the authorities on the importance of holding free and fair legislative elections. to this end, the independence and robustness of the national electoral commission must be ensured and the participation of the various political parties in the democratic exercise must be ensured. stability in guinea-conacri, as in neighbouring countries, is essential. it is unacceptable that political decision-makers, driven by the desire to perpetuate their power, aggravate the difficult living conditions faced by their populations. the situation requires our full attention and vigilance, as well as that of the international community, at a sensitive moment for the future of guinea-conacri.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2019 was a year that saw a wave of protests in all corners of the world, in countries that differed greatly from each other in terms of development, democratic culture and wealth. the republic of guinea is also undergoing a social revolution, with a growing demand for participatory democracy. since october 14, demonstrations have been organized across the country against the unjust constitutional reform of president alpha condé. protests marked by serious acts of violence by the protesters, but especially by the security forces. we have seen that, as unfortunately happens all too often, the preferred response of the authority in question is simply to violently suppress dissent, with arbitrary arrests and restrictions on fundamental freedoms. the situation is extremely worrying. we must follow what is happening with determination, demand an inclusive dialogue between all social forces and work with regional and international actors to avoid civil war, but above all we must demand that our companies stop exporting weapons to countries where they can be used against the people and public opinion.
madam president, i've been thinking a little bit about why we should question the fact that we've opened this debate. i think we want to have an impact in africa. we really want africa to go through that evolution from the colonial period to the democratic period. i was personally very excited when president condé took office in guinea in 2010 and saw the steps he was taking. i had a feeling that actually the situation in this country, which is very beautiful and full of mineral wealth, by the way, is just beginning to change. i'm pretty dismayed by what's started to happen in october. it's not normal that people are being killed, that the repression that has taken place by the police forces has been so great that many people who were injured in these demonstrations did not have access to medical care or lawyers. so let's open the debate and call on guinea to really try to prevent violence.
madam president, african rulers who once, a long time ago, were democratically elected, but who have since then maneuvered to get re-elected again and again, and are preparing to amend constitutions and call pseudo-referendums to prolong themselves in power indefinitely, are a decisive link in the chain that explains the instability, repression, the suffering caused to their populations; with those mass protests of which the 2009 massacre was paroxystic, with 150 killed and more than a hundred women raped, and the protests that have taken place in 2019 and this same year 2020. it is essential that the european union acts at the source to prevent the flow of migrants and asylum seekers which is reflected at the moment in the surge in the canary islands, thinking that they are coming to the european union. and that requires effective diplomacy that supports freedom, democracy and stability, in guinea and across the african continent.
madam president, the resolution condemns the ongoing violence in the republic of guinea and the breaches of human rights. i condemn the breach of human rights everywhere, but this parliament loves condemning human rights abuses halfway around the world but chooses to bury its head in the sand in relation to the same human rights abuses in the eu’s own member states. since november 2018, french police have regularly attacked protesters against macron’s neoliberal reforms with rubber bullets, lbd guns, gli-f4 grenades and tear gas. the french journalist, david dufresne, keeps count of injuries and deaths caused by the french police. the latest figures are two dead; 315 head injuries, including fractured skulls; 24 people have lost an eye; and five people have lost a hand. the resolution urges the guinea government to recognise the fundamental rights to freedom. why don’t we ask the french government to do the same? and why don’t we ask the spanish government to treat the catalan protesters with fairness?
madam president! my country, slovenia, is a small country, but we have very close ties with madagascar, as quite a few slovenian priests are working as missionaries in madagascar. not only are they priests, but they are also concerned with the welfare of the people. the best example is missionary peter brick, who picks up people at the dump and then organizes them. the whole akamasoa good friends community has been created, where parents get a modest house, and then they get a job, and the children go to school. the teachers are housewives and teachers, so he organized life: children go to school, and the other adults have jobs. and i think that's the best, most appropriate model of how aid works in the third world. the malagasy government and the pope follow his example.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in madagascar, one of the poorest countries in the world, although child labour is officially prohibited, almost a quarter of children between the ages of five and 17 are forced to work on vanilla plantations, in mines, on the streets or as domestic servants. and the tragic reality is that thousands of children work every day in the mines, many of them illegally, in conditions that are extremely harsh and dangerous to their health. for as little as 4 cents a pound, these children are forced to cut the ore and clean the debris with their hands, sustaining injuries and breathing in harmful fine dust daily. the 1989 un convention, whose 30th anniversary we have just celebrated, cannot be celebrated and the protection of children's rights cannot stop at european borders. the union must act to put an end to these unacceptable violations by implementing the necessary policies to empower the industry that uses these materials and to support the poorest countries. commissioner, we must all commit ourselves to the implementation of the rights of the child enshrined in the un convention.
madam president, i wouldn’t say anybody here has ever met a person who supports child labour, but yet it continues. for god’s sake, yesterday we agreed an agreement with a country where child labour exists. where is the questioning about why this happens? do you think the parents of the children in madagascar don’t love them? that they don’t want them to go to school? of course they do, but they have no alternative, because their children are the victims of capitalism, of industrial agriculture, of climate change and drought. and we have multi—nationals from european countries doing business there. now i’m sorry, but i have to say these motions are pathetic. appealing to their better nature is like asking a wolf not to eat a goat. it lets us down badly. where’s the penalties? where’s the criminal charges? where’s the binding legislation? will you cop yourselves on? they don’t need crocodile tears, they need action.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i want to thank the presidency for putting this item on the agenda at what is a trying and difficult time for all of our citizens. my thoughts this morning are of course with italy and all italian citizens, particularly the patients, the families and the healthcare workers, and those across europe facing the corona virus. these are indeed difficult times for families. on sunday, we marked a very special international women’s day – 25 years since the beijing platform for action. we in europe and around the world have made considerable progress in advancing women’s rights and it is important to celebrate the progress, but of course we also have to say it is not enough. we have to accelerate action. we have to harness the power and the potential of women across this continent and around the world. on thursday, i was glad to welcome the european gender equality strategy through which we can reach further and go higher, but without action a strategy is just words. we need implementation across all of the institutions. we need strong political leadership in order to implement that gender equality strategy and we do have much work to do. i only have a moment to mention some of the issues: women in europe, 84 cents pay for every euro a man earns, and an extraordinary pension gap of 40%. think of the implications of that for families, for children, for women, for old age. we do not have a critical mass in our parliaments, in our businesses, in our boards. that is important. critical mass matters, as does, of course, the very serious statistic in relation to violence. one in three women in the eu has been a victim of physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. it is as simple as that. we need all member states and the eu to ratify the istanbul convention. just think about the level of violence we are seeing around the world against women, think about fgm, think about what’s happening in europe, and the recent un report that says gender equality is on the slide. we must do more. we must not just aim to break the glass ceiling. we must shatter it now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation where there is no end in sight. it is essential that the european union and the member states set priorities. the first priority above all is, of course, to protect the lives and health of people. the second is to take measures to minimise economic damage, and last but not least, the lessons we as a society and a union will learn from this. this situation should be taken very seriously, but it's also important not to spread panic and fake news. when this is over and life returns to normal, it is necessary to review and investigate the sequence of events that led to the outbreak and the measures taken by the member states and the european union whether these measures have produced results, which actions were taken too late or too early, which were not taken to contain the spread of the virus. once again, it has been painfully demonstrated that viruses do not respect national borders and ramps. this is also the view of our citizens, who overwhelmingly believe that the european union should play a major role in responding to such threats and situations. according to eurobarometer, as many as 90% of citizens have this view, which is certainly compelling. the european union can play an important role in managing this and similar crises, in accordance with its powers. some aspects of the crisis, such as the supply of medicines, are global in nature and as such require a common european response. as regards the response to the economic consequences of the crisis, i appeal to all stakeholders to reach an agreement on a new multiannual budget as soon as possible. this is a prerequisite for the union to mobilise all the tools to support the economies of the member states in need. in conclusion, given how much our members benefit from the freedom to work and to move, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the rights of eu citizens, such as the european health insurance card and the rights of travellers to assistance and compensation, are respected during the epidemic. this situation will show how these european achievements work during emergencies.
madam president, the director—general of the world health organization (who) said yesterday that the threat of a pandemic has become very real, but that it would be the first pandemic that could be controlled. the measures we take therefore strongly influence the trajectory of the coronavirus. each member state is doing the best it can to combat the coronavirus. but, in a continent where people can move freely, we must act together. while i am hesitant to draw any conclusions already, what remains clear is that we cannot address, prevent or delay this epidemic without coordinating at a european level. we need to establish regular communication to exchange information and best practices more efficiently, and we need a united response. the world has sadly not seen the end of this epidemic but, if europe acts as one now, we will be able to make a difference and not be at the mercy of this virus.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the coronavirus, europe has once again been completely absent. brussels has done nothing to combat the health and economic emergency that has erupted in italy and all european countries. instead of immediately stopping the arrivals from china, europe has treated italians from veneto, lombardy and emilia romagna like a plague: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the coronavirus has unleashed a health and economic cataclysm that must be addressed with exceptional measures: that's why we need emergency funding, and we need that money now, before it's too late. to hell with the european constraints! to hell with the stability pact! to hell with your zero-domain: italians can't die of viruses or starvation because of budget constraints. because, if you haven't figured it out yet, the lives of italians and the economy of our country are at stake here. we will use all the money we need, because we have a duty to save the lives of millions of italians and the lives of millions of businesses. dear european bureaucrats, this is your last chance to prove that europe really exists. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! first of all, i would like to express my condolences to all those who have been affected by the coronavirus, and especially to all those in italy, but i have already heard some meps from italy accuse the european union of doing something it has not done. i wonder if you've asked yourself if italy did everything it could to stop the coronavirus from spreading like that. all the sick people, almost all of them that we have in slovenia, that we have on the border with italy, they came from italy, from italian airports and other areas, so i ask you, is italy... (the president shall be excused from speaking. )
answer to a blue-card question. europe has underestimated the problem: the who said that the problem was as serious as terrorism, and europe did nothing to prevent the virus from coming from china. he had to act immediately: the flights had to be stopped immediately. that was not done and now we are paying the consequences. but i say this with a heavy heart: we must all fight to prevent this contagion from spreading to all the countries of europe.
madam president, first i extend my deepest sympathies to individuals and families affected by covid-19 around the world. this is above all a human tragedy. as anxiety grows and people’s awareness of the challenges become coloured by panic and disinformation, ambitious, far—reaching leadership is needed. the eu can help, as we can here in the parliament, with multifaceted, collective action, informed by the best science and policy available. europe must acknowledge frontline medical teams, whilst acknowledging the precarity of the global economy. we need cross-sector protection and temporary support to areas such as crucial food distribution chains, industry and transport. with covid-19 cases moving towards pandemic levels, leaders must not allow the virus to be outflanked by the very real power of fear.
madam president, this virus is a demonstration of why neoliberalism is a broken system. china has achieved miraculous results thus far in its battle and they were only possible because of the size and power of their state institutions. they bought the rest of the world extra time, which we went on to squander. decades of neoliberalism and privatisation have undermined the public health systems of every european country, and this is evidenced by the pressures on the systems in the affected countries now. there is talk of saving younger patients due to the strain on resources. commissioner, you said we need solidarity, we need to share resources and equipment, but countries like italy do need more support and less criticism. we are one global family, yet the us has sanctions against 20 countries worldwide, nearly a third of the world’s population, depriving people of essential medicines and hygiene supplies. the world health organisaiton (who) recently faced delays in supplying iran with testing equipment. we are killing people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, history has presented us with an existential challenge, the challenge of showing that the word 'solidarity' in europe is not just a hypocritical slogan. i propose three clear and immediate emergency measures: the first is the adoption of a single health protocol throughout the union. the virus knows no borders! the second is a european emergency plan for the non-stop production and centralised purchase of medical equipment needed for intensive care, starting with pulmonary ventilators. no to the slaughtering of sick people! thirdly, the immediate suspension of the absurd limits of the fiscal compact, to give every country all the budgetary space it needs to protect employment and the strengthening of funds for access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises, in order to avert a frightening recession, so that those who are cured do not have to commit suicide because of the crisis. real countercyclical policies because flexibility alone is not enough are used to support research and a european scientific consortium for the vaccine immediately; it's used to buy materials right away. the real heroes of this... (the president stops the speaker)
member of the commission. – madam president, there have been quite a number of interventions. i will try to summarise and answer as many as i can and pick up as many points as i can. several of you mentioned the need to strengthen the european centre of disease prevention and control. we are, at the moment, already working with them on this and they are maximising their outreach in terms of being able to respond to member states with a specific response team. when called, they go on the ground to member states to offer advice. this has already happened in at least two member states and i trust that they will be able to respond to more as more requests come in. the second point i want to pick up is that it was mentioned that the commission should not be reading about measures in the newspapers or be waiting to hear what they need to do. well i can assure you we do not read about daily events in the newspapers. we are briefed by the health security committee and there is an early response warning and response system which is precisely there to exchange information and coordinate. we are in very close coordination with all the european health ministers. there was an emergency health council last friday and i speak with health ministers at least on a weekly basis, trying to address here their needs and different problems. i want to be absolutely clear – this is not a situation where any of us have the luxury of saying we’re going to be reading about it in the press or as it comes along. this is an evolving situation and we are literally holding meetings at least two or three times a day to see how the situation is changing, and this is the only way we’re going to be able to address the many challenges. but, there is no one-size-fits-all for this situation. not all member states are facing the same challenges so we need to be constantly on board with ministers and readdress the way that we are advising and helping them move along. today there is a european council with the heads of state and it’ll be held via teleconference. several of you mentioned the need and the problems that we have with possible medicine shortages. i want to assure you that what we have heard so far – and yesterday i had a video call with the european medicines agency – is that we have had no reports of medicine shortages, but it is something that is of concern to us and we are monitoring the situation very closely. we will be re-examining it several times a week with the european medicines agency. it is true that dependency on third countries is an issue and it’s an issue that has been highlighted. this was already in my mission letter to come forward with a pharma strategy by the end of 2020 and we will be looking at that, but in terms of the day-to-day situation we’re working very closely with the ema on this. research. significant funding has been put towards research for vaccine development, with a potential to reach almost eur 140 million through horizon 2020 and the innovative medicines initiative. last week funding of (eur) 47.5 million was awarded to 17 projects with 136 research teams working across europe. since there was also mention of the international dimension, (eur) 232 million has been allocated to different sectors to boost global preparedness, with eur 114 million going to the who, eur 15 million to africa, eur 100 million to urgently needed research and diagnostics, and over eur 3 million to the union’s civil protection mechanism. fake news. (this is a) huge area. i think that we can all agree in this plenary, in this chamber, that fake news and disinformation is extremely dangerous. last week the commission convened a meeting with all the big social media outlets – they were all there – and commissioner jourová to address this problem. we’re taking it extremely seriously and everyone – everyone – has a part to play in this, so we can all be sure that what is out there for citizens is scientifically-based responsible information. finally, containment. i agree with you, i agree with what many of you said – that containment is key at this point. there are very many unpleasant measures that have had to be taken, but these measures are important in order to be able to slow down the spread and to save lives. and as i said before, we need to make sure that – and this is the coordination that we are doing, almost on a daily basis – member states are taking these measures, but, again, i repeat there is no one-size-fits-all approach for member states. and finally, i want to reiterate what has been said many times here today already. this is not a time for panic and we need to stress that. it is also not a time for complacency. it is a time for solidarity. it is a difficult situation for us all and the commission is not meeting once a week – we are meeting almost on a daily basis, working in parallel and with commissioner lenarčič, we speak several times a day on a number of common issues, and this needs to continue. but we need to stay calm. we need to stay solid. we need to stay focused. and we need members of the european parliament to spread these messages to their governments as well. we are all in this effort together, we are going to get through this, but we need to get through this responsibly and effectively.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am really grateful for this debate because it will help us steer the next step in facing this difficult challenge ahead. obviously, as the virus continues to spread, what is needed is that we collectively – member states and eu institutions – step up our actions and the commission intends to do so. not everybody is affected in the same way at the moment. there are some who are hit harder and that’s why we stress the need for solidarity among eu member states in particular because, without solidarity, the mechanisms that we have simply do not work. the civil protection mechanism is a wonderful mechanism, but it is based on the contribution by member states. if those contributions are not there, the mechanism doesn’t work. solidarity also has an impact on joint procurement, and so on. so, without solidarity, we are not going to get far. why? simply because the commission doesn’t possess its own stocks of protective equipment – masks and that kind of stuff. if we did have those things, italy would be the first to get them from us, but we don’t. we rely on member states and their solidarity. so it’s not an empty word: solidarity really matters. without solidarity things aren’t going to work. the next point i want to make is that obviously we need to continue to work on preparedness and contingency. obviously the capacities, in particular in the health sector but also elsewhere, are not sufficient in case of further propagation of the virus. we keep saying this, we have kept saying this for weeks and we will continue to say this. certain other aspects were highlighted. let me say that we are working not only on vaccines, but also on diagnostics, tests, treatment and so on, and we added an additional eur 37 million to this research area just last friday. we are also looking into aviation, because aviation is obviously one of the sectors that are hardest hit. we are looking into that, and my colleague commissioner vălean is looking into that very closely, including with regard to the rules governing the usage of slots. i will not go into further details, but i would like to assure you all that the commission will not hesitate to propose additional measures as we face this challenge in the coming days and weeks. we will also not hesitate to find any additional funding that is available. but on this issue i would like to underline what was also said by some of the honourable members. we are in the last year of the multiannual financial framework. reserves in the commission’s budget are meagre. this is one more reason, if ever one was needed, to have an early agreement on the next multiannual financial framework. it’s long overdue. let me close by thanking you as members of this house for your interest and engagement. it is important that the message goes out to our citizens that the eu cares, that the eu is doing its part to address the situation, and that we will continue to do so until we win this battle. this is a time for eu solidarity. we need to stick together and support each other in fighting this outbreak at all levels – at local level, national level, european level and global level. i can assure you that the commission will continue to play its role. we will continue to work on all fronts: on health aspects, civil protection aspects, economic aspects, transport aspects and all others. we’ll do our best and we do count on your continued support.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank you for the very useful debate we have had today. this is a situation of high concern to all of us – governments, politicians and citizens. we need to address the spread of covid-19 in europe in a coordinated and coherent manner. in order to achieve this we need to keep each other well informed about developments, cross-cutting impacts on different sectors and the measures taken. only through close cooperation can we tackle this global outbreak in the most effective way. it is a situation of high concern, but we must ensure that reliable information is widely available to our citizens and thereby prevent any undue panic. we need to remain vigilant and to combat misinformation and disinformation as well as discriminatory or xenophobic reactions, which are misleading the public and undermine the work carried out by our national authorities. we also must exchange up-to-date information on preparedness plans and implementation of all measures, as this is important for our mutual security and for a coherent approach. we need to ensure that authorities and staff from relevant sectors, such as transport, health and social policy have the necessary information procedures and guidance on how to deal with cases. we should all especially thank and support our health workers, who often work round the clock in their selfless efforts to save our citizens’ lives. it is particularly useful to hear your views and concerns and we fully share your sense of urgency. needless to say, we take the covid-19 outbreak very seriously. we will remain focused on a thorough implementation of measures in force in relevant sectors, be proactive in exchanging all of the necessary information on their effectiveness, and mobilise inter-sectoral coordination to develop a constructive approach in tackling various disturbances on the eu market. as i stressed in my opening intervention, we need to strengthen solidarity, cooperation and exchange of information between all the member states. this is why the presidency has included discussions on the trade aspects of the covid-19 outbreak at the foreign affairs council in the trade format on 12 march, and a coordination of the member states’ efforts will be further discussed at the justice and home affairs council on 13 march, as well as the ecofin council on 17 march. i can assure you that we are closely monitoring health, economic and social impacts in order to take further actions as appropriate in a coordinated manner.
thank you, minister. before i close this debate, colleagues, you know we are advised not to touch our faces during these times, and i know i have breached that rule, but i want to reassure you that i have been using sanitiser. i say this with great seriousness. for those who don’t know what this is, it’s a tissue. we are meant to use them for sneezing into and, if you don’t have one, please use your elbows. you have two. these are serious times so we should listen to what the medical experts are saying. my thanks to our commissioners, our council representatives and indeed to colleagues who participated in the debate. those who couldn’t can please send in a written contribution, which will be recorded. the sitting is suspended until 3.00 p.m. we will vote on this important issue at the next part session. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i naturally agree with those who believe that the european union needs to invest much more in research, including research to learn about viruses, and that we should do everything we can to stop the spread of the virus. parliament is a symbol of democracy. the european parliament must take the necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the virus, but it must certainly continue to work as usual. i understand those who consider the ambassadors who travel from brussels to their home countries every week as potential carriers of the infection. to eliminate this danger, it is not reasonable to interrupt the normal work of parliament. it would be more appropriate for members not to travel to their home country for a certain period and to continue their work in brussels.
in writing. coronavirus is a global problem that we will only overcome together. health professionals are at the forefront of this work with their knowledge, resources and dedication. i want to express my solidarity and appreciation to them and the public systems in which they work, in my case osakidetza. let us support their work by following their recommendations on hygiene and prophylaxis because individual responsibility is also an essential tool against this crisis. effective prevention also requires combating the purveyors of false news and the speculators, who try to make political or commercial business out of this problem. the best antidote to these behaviours is science, prevention, solidarity and trust in the authorities who must work in coordination and build global agreements. finally, the effects of the crisis on the economy must be alleviated. fiscal flexibility, and a specific line of coherent and coordinated financial support, to maintain coherence in the internal market is another priority.
in writing. – the commissioner stated that our response can’t be ‘business as usual.’ the irony is that it is precisely ‘business as usual’ which has hampered our ability to respond. the marketisation of health care, spearheaded by the commission – slashing health budgets, aggressive restructuring, layoffs of health workers, and medical research concentrated in the hands of multinational pharmaceutical companies for profit – have all led to a chaotic response from the eu. we should follow the advice of the who regarding travel and large public gatherings to contain the spread of the virus. listen to science and factual information, not exaggeration. if people are not well or need to self-isolate they should stay at home. but for workers to do that, they have to be paid. isn’t it an indictment of our society and a reflection of the level of casualisation of labour that has taken place in recent years that the idea of workers going into work sick has become a social norm? we need to learn the lessons from this crisis: the market is incapable of responding to the health needs of european citizens and we really need to change how society is organised, putting universal health care centre-stage.
madam president, in june 2019, the european council adopted the strategic agenda for the next five years. what have the heads of state and government promised in that document? let me quote: ‘effective control of the external borders’. what does council president charles michel propose in his mff for the next several years? a 43% cut to the european border and coast guard agency. the heads of state and government speak about guaranteeing the security of our citizens, and charles michel proposes cutting the internal security fund by 23%. the heads of state and government also propose strengthening the single market, and they commit to it. president charles michel proposes cuts of 31% to the single market programme. achieving digital sovereignty is also an objective of the heads of state and government. president charles michel proposes 18% cuts to the digital europe programme. the proposals of president charles michel do not respect the promises of the european council, the commission or of the parliament. this is why our answer needs to be ‘no’ to this proposal. we expect a new proposal on the basis of our promises, so that we can deliver to the people of europe in the short-term crisis, which we see appearing, and also on their expectations over the next several years.
madam president, the multiannual financial framework will determine the financial choices of the european union for the next six years. this means that its adoption will be a crucial decision. i would like to recall what i consider to be two priorities. first, the agricultural budget, and in particular the one for the first pillar, must be preserved. our farmers need european aid. if the union reduces them, it will be taking on the deliberate responsibility of sacrificing many small and mediumsized farms which will no longer be able to withstand the international competition created by the sacred and holy of free trade. secondly, this will have to be achieved by making savings in other areas and not by increasing the overall budget of the union. the reception of migrants and european defence are two areas where we could make substantial savings. supporting our agriculture means preserving the food sovereignty of our states. this should be a sobering thought at a time when we are becoming aware that a virus is capable of paralysing economic globalisation.
mr president, much has been said about the mff and much more will be said. i should like to take this opportunity to make two specific points. president michel's proposal adds a great many savings to what was already in the finnish proposals, some of them very drastic. i am thinking, for example, of the european defence fund, minus 39%, the military mobility facility, minus 74%. i think we have to ask ourselves if, if you're going to make those kinds of savings, what's left of those kinds of programmes is going to make sense, or if you're going to fall below a certain threshold where the efficiency of those kinds of programmes is going to drop. second point. there are also savings in innovation spending. now, if there is one type of european union expenditure that has proved its worth, that is also committed to the common future, and that also belongs in the european sphere because of the benefits of scale, it is innovation expenditure. i think it is not appropriate to spare any of that in these times of very strong technological evolution, and i think we should certainly take those two elements into account in the forthcoming discussions on the mff. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure the disagreement between the three european institutions, the commission, the council and the parliament, has certainly led to the failure to define the new financial framework. you yourself have said that the internal market is suffering, research is suffering, agricultural policy is suffering. do you think it's fair to the citizens? citizens are increasing their trust in these institutions that cannot come to terms with a budget of more than six months. how can we transmit in our country the citizens' trust for projects in the european union when, behold, the heads of state and government are not able to make a decision?
blue-card answer. – i totally agree with your argument that of course we need to get the budget in order, and i think it is certainly not the fault of the parliament that at this moment in time we are not further ahead in these negotiations. i would like to make a further point on what you said. i think it’s also time that we got to work on a contingency plan because, if nothing is done, certain programmes will end at the end of this year, full stop. so a contingency plan on the part of the commission is greatly needed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the discussions of these weeks and the ridiculous battles over decimals and zeroes reveal the double standards of those who say, in words, that they want an ambitious europe, but only in words. at this point, with the current proposal, we're not going to win any of the global challenges: i am not talking about the green deal, or the fight against climate change, or the digitisation of our economies, or, even less, the migration challenge, and i am thinking of greece. we are not going to do enough for research at a time when, for example, we need extraordinary funding to create a european scientific consortium that can find a vaccine for coronavirus. that is why we must act immediately by unlocking our own resources, starting with the common corporate tax base (cctb) and the web tax, and also by abolishing the shameful privilege of rebates and discounts which the richest countries in the union still enjoy and which they would not like to give up today. with britain leaving, there is no longer any justification: i say that i want an ambitious europe and that ambitious europe must have an ambitious budget, otherwise we are only fooling ourselves.
madam president, mr president michel, wherever you are at this moment, you are not respecting the european treaty. it is not the european council that has to negotiate the mff with the parliament, but the council of ministers. it's never happened before, it's the first time it's happened. we, the european parliament, should be negotiating the horizontal files. we have power there, co-decision power, and we should not, under any circumstances, abandon the proposal that parliament made in november, a very, very good proposal. i think we should also look at what an appeal to the european court of justice would mean, because it is obvious that those in the council are not respecting the treaty and i think that such actions should be met with similar actions.
madam president, i shall not speak today about figures or programmes - first because it has already been done here and also because that position is well known - but i would like to add four points which are also important for the negotiation. first, flexibility is a good thing. yes or yes. and i am very concerned to see that not only is the council not moving forward in flexibility, but that in every paper it has on the table there is less and less. we've seen it with the economic crisis, we've seen it with the refugee crisis. we need flexibility in the budget to adapt. second, the contingency plan. it is no longer an option, but a necessity, because we are clearly behind schedule and it will certainly not be the fault of this parliament, which has been waiting two years to negotiate. so, now, there's no rush, there's no emergency and certainly no pressure. let's take our time and make a good deal. and it is clear that, in addition, the circumstances we are living in now make flexibility and a contingency plan even more necessary, because we are going to have to keep adapting. thirdly, to remind the council and its president - even though it has had to go - that an agreement in the council is not the end of any process, but the beginning. and of course, if you go where your discussions are going, you will have a very difficult time negotiating with this parliament because we do not like that proposal at all and we would reject it. and finally, the trading box and all the contents inside. mr michel said earlier that we link the rule of law to the financial framework - that is very commendable - but they certainly do not have the power to decide how or who makes those decisions, and so on in many programmes. so i remind you that you have codecision with this parliament.
i have already pointed out on another occasion that you should not take charles michel seriously. yes, he was the ideal candidate for emmanuel macron: french-speaking and slavishly serving the fanatical federalists merkel and macron. but to think that he would therefore also be a good representative of the member states as head of the european council is a complete misconception. apart from the immoral nonsense of wanting to increase the budget of the european union instead of unanimously and with what the citizens want to moderate the agenda now that the united kingdom is going to spend its money on its own people first and no longer on the european union, charles michel is the last person to entrust you with a budget. at the head of the last belgian government, which was then supposed to put the so-called socio-economic and budgetary order in place and postpone the country's political reforms, michel left a veritable budgetary mess of between 12 and 15 billion euros on an annual basis: so the opposite of what was planned. you've been warned.
i have to say, madam president, i have listened carefully to mr michel. i would like to say to him: please agree on a figure for the european budget in the european council, but agree first on the kind of eu you really want, and then please finance it adequately! we've been in the same situation for years. on sunday, the speeches call for more innovation, more border protection, more encounters, more climate action, and now a common defence policy. on monday the member states are not prepared to provide the money. but on tuesday, they will say again how bad it is that the eu is not getting the problems solved. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i think we need a budget to finance the common objectives. we need a budget that's adequately protected. we therefore need to be bound by the rule of law in the member states, and mr michel's last proposal was far from adequate. and we need a different situation in terms of revenue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we must be careful not to risk budget cuts which will jeopardize our great european objectives for the next few years. as chairman of the committee on agriculture, i am of course very keenly aware of the agricultural budget. let us look at the figures presented by president michel: we're going from 382 billion between 2014 and 2020 to just under 330 billion for 2021 to 2027. so it is cut by over 53 billion, and that is a 14% cut. ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. how, then, are we to achieve the objectives of the european green deal? how are we going to implement the farm-to-fork strategy? how is biodiversity maintained in europe? we must do this with the farmers, not against them. that is why we need a budget that is able to cope with the situation so that agriculture can make its contribution.
madam president, i am one of those who believe in the european vision, who care and love the european union, and that is why i want a strong, proud, leading force in humanity, the european union. i want a european union which can strengthen its borders, create a single defence and security and a european army, so that it can defend itself from the sovereignty of the small island of cyprus to the sovereignty of all the countries of the european union. that is why i want a european union with a strong social face, with a digital single market, with policies that deal with green growth, with the fight against cancer, with a policy that creates working conditions for young children, a european union that responds to visions and aspirations. let's not kid ourselves: we must speak clearly to the european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to say that european citizens are concerned when their money is given to countries and those who do not apply the principles and values of the european union, and one country that receives this money, and europeans are complaining about it, is turkey, which should not receive a single euro from the european budget and the multiannual financial framework.
madam president, the minds of our leaders are naturally focused on the challenge of dealing with the virus, the coronavirus, but they have to make space for this issue about the future budget. i’ve been through several years where the debate on the budget has been tense and extremely difficult. i think this time it’s worse, and i suppose the uk departure is being used partially as an excuse to do less rather than more. all of us who deal with citizens in the member states know that people come to us looking for support, looking for money for many projects, and we have policies that need to be funded. the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, norbert lins, has already identified the issue for farmers, and there are serious threats to the agriculture budget from the various proposals on the table. this is not acceptable, because we want farmers to do more in the coming years rather than less, but if there is not sufficient funding it will be very difficult for them to do that. we need the leaders to act and to act now.
madam president, commissioner, public action, to be credible and effective, needs projects and political will, leadership and budgets. the problems we are trying to tackle in the union - climate change, the transformation of our production and energy model, the transformation of linear energy into circular energy, the immigration crises - require concerted action. and without a reasonable agreement on this multiannual financial framework we leave the european institutions without the tools. then it's very easy. when a problem is too much for us, it is much easier to blame everything on brussels. without a budget, without instruments, without strong european institutions, it is easier to endorse the european union through inaction, through our own mistakes, through our inability to reach agreements, through national misery and selfishness. this parliament, which is co-deciding - let us not forget - will not accept a bad agreement.
madam president, the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union has created a sizeable budgetary gap which will not be easy to fill. migration challenges, the coronavirus pandemic and similar global challenges make this task even more difficult. when we adopt the multiannual financial framework, we must keep one thing in mind. it must uphold the european spirit of solidarity and the ambition of a balanced development of the union in the long term. otherwise, it will not fulfill its task and we will only create further divisions. there is a risk that less developed member states will be deprived of funds for cohesion and agriculture. it would be a step in the wrong direction and a clear message to current and future members that membership of the union no longer brings the value it once did to those lagging behind, and i believe that this would further weaken mutual trust and create the conditions for new divisions that would ultimately stabilise the union.
madam president, for me, the discussion around the mff really exposes what european values are, because the problem isn’t that agreement hasn’t been reached or that some programmes will be cut – the real problem is the areas of expenditure that are being prioritised by the commission and the council. this is a budget defined more than anything else by an enormous domination of expenditure on security and defence and on border management. the obscenity that the same arms companies that benefit from the wars that make people refugees are going to benefit from the contracts in us reinforcing our borders to keep them out. we’ve seen it in the decision last week to give eur 700 million to greece as a shield – a shield for europe and not a single word about the adherence to international law, the right to asylum, the need for a new migration pact. the pursuit of militarism in this eu will not meet the expectation of citizens and it’s a failure for all.
mr. chairman, colleagues, many people in this room today should be ashamed. colleagues on the left, on the left of me: years ago, you all justified and covered up for the turkish dictator erdogan. you pretended not to see that this is a dictator who uses human misery for his own political ends. you were the ones who said: "we'll manage that". well, no, you didn't. and you couldn't have done it. now i hear colleagues calling for the borders to be reopened, and i ask them: which of you, of those who have spoken out in support of illegal immigration, have you taken into your home at least one illegal immigrant from afghanistan, iran or eritrea? if there is, raise your hand and i'll admit i was wrong, but i know i wasn't. i know none of you would or have ever taken in any illegal immigrants, but you keep teaching us to think and reason. that, gentlemen, is hypocrisy and you should be ashamed of yourselves. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – given that europeans have supported wars against peoples in these countries where the refugees have come from, and given that we – both militarily and economically – have absolutely destroyed their communities and their lives, do you not think that we should take some responsibility for these refugees, and do you not think that all european states should play their part? and yes, i’ve had an afghan refugee in my house for over a year and a half and i’ve had an iraqi kurd in it. (applause)
i cannot help feeling, mr president, and i think many citizens feel, that the european union has not really been present in these difficult times in the past. and i am not talking about competences, but about the coordinating and facilitating role that the union must be able to play. as for the member states, i would urge them to do their utmost, really their utmost, to maintain the socioeconomic fabric, to save jobs, to maintain purchasing power and also, and above all, to reduce the uncertainty which is already so great. the european union can and must provide support to these measures by not imposing administrative or budgetary obstacles and by allowing maximum flexibility in the field of these national initiatives. this is not the case, at least not with regard to the multiannual budget, which, as we all know, is on the back burner. the negotiations on this - which i think are now clear - will have to be reoriented to a very large extent. the multiannual budget and the negotiations will have to be maximum, flexible and agile in order to cope with this crisis and its consequences. i also assume that everyone now understands that we also need to have a contingency plan for this situation. finally, i would like to call for maximum focus on managing this crisis and its consequences. and if that means that other programmes, like the green deal, need to be redirected, so be it. the urgency, the priority and the ambition must now be elsewhere.
mr president, medical staff all across europe have been the heroes of this crisis, but a report published last month found that the european commission made at least 63 demands on member states to cut spending on health-care provision from 2011 to 2018 to meet the arbitrary debt and deficit targets of the stability and growth pact. these rules have hollowed out public services across europe, including health services. the president said that the stability and growth pact and state aid rules will be relaxed but they should be abolished for good. the commission proposes to use eur 37 billion, drawn from various funds, but these funds and projects will be needed more than ever when the crisis ends. the crisis will cost ireland at least eur 15 billion. will the citizens of ireland will be paying for years to come? you printed money for the banks, will you print it for the people? president von der leyen said the commission will mobilise all existing budget resources, so will you reallocate military spending to fight covid-19? the president says we must help each other. she said history is looking at us. well, history will damn our lack of solidarity. italy got more solidarity from china and cuba than it got from europe. it will damn us for failing to do enough to challenge us sanctions against countries like iran and venezuela. we have condemned them to die. capitalism has failed the people. we cannot go back to where we were.
the first thing to be remembered, mr president, is of course the victims and their families, and certainly all those who are working day in and day out in the health sector to combat this pandemic. this pandemic will also leave a deep economic trail. i think that compared to the financial crisis, this is worse, and it's going to get worse. it is therefore also logical that governments should do all they can to create the best possible conditions for economic recovery, while maintaining, of course - and this will be a delicate matter - the right balance between health care considerations and, on the other hand, economic recovery, jobs and prosperity. it is also the time to keep the big projects under review or to keep them under review. we remain committed to a sustainable transition with forward-looking innovation and competitiveness at its core. however, these objectives should be incorporated as far as possible into an economic recovery strategy. the eurogroup package will certainly provide support, but the big financial bazooka will of course remain the policy of the european central bank as it is now and as it has been drawn up. i call for solidarity, solidarity between member states and regions, whereby resources must go where they are needed most and be used in the right way.
mr president, of course the european union didn’t cause the virus, but the relentless pursuit of neoliberal capitalism has actually hampered our ability to deal with it and caused the damage – stripping our health services, leaving our workers exposed without sufficient protective gear, undermining and preventing the european centre for disease prevention from doing its work, and so on. all of these have caused the damage, so to respond to that crisis with a temporary suspension of some of those rules, but ultimately more of the same, is frankly not going to cut it. it is pathetic. it is the opposite of solidarity. an insufficient fund of eur 500 billion with strict conditions, where it is clear that ordinary people are going to be sitting with a bill later, is not going to wash. actually, it will be the end of the european union. we need radical change, we need debt neutralisation, we need zero—interest credit lines, we need the suspension of military expenditure, and so on. so can we please stop talking out of both sides of our mouth? if we’re really interested in solidarity, why haven’t we moved asylum seekers off the greek islands? why haven’t we dealt with orbán? why haven’t we spoken out against the sanctions damaging people? it’s not the chinese who are undermining the european union; it’s your own inaction.
mr president, i wanted to give a message to the president of the commission, ms von der leyen, but she’s no longer here. why? because i think that, rightly, she has spoken about the duties that our nurses, our medical people are fulfilling. but are we politicians fulfilling our duty? i’m not so sure about that because we have already been discussing this european master plan for many weeks in a row. my question is, what is the european commission waiting for? why can she not come forward with this trillion-sized european reconstruction and recovery plan? what is she waiting for? is she waiting for the european council? then we may be waiting eight years, as is the case of the banking union, because there is still no banking union after the financial crisis. the european council is playing ping pong. in february, the eurogroup could not agree on that plan. they sent it to the european council. then in march, the european council sent it back to the eurogroup. then the eurogroup, in april, a few days ago, was not in agreement with that part of the plan and sent it back to the european council. my message to the european commission is that this has to stop. you have the right of initiative. take your responsibility and come forward with what is asked by the whole plenary here, that is a trillion-sized european recovery and reconstruction plan, not based on mutualisation of that, not guaranteed by the member states – they have no money anymore, they will all be in deficit – but based on new own resources. it’s an historical moment for the european commission. we need a large type of initiative. you remember delors. there was a big crisis, an economic stagflation crisis, and he launched the single market and it lifted us out of the crisis. the same is needed now. the european commission has to act and not wait for the outcome of a council that will not decide next week. (applause)
we have seen, mr president, in the debate on the euro bonds, that the eurozone has become a zone of conflict. but i do not blame the italians, the spanish, the french, the germans or the dutch. i love all of them. i am actually blaming the eurozone, because the problem of the eurozone is the euro itself, mr verhofstadt. a single currency does not bring unity. on the contrary, it is an illusion, an illusion to have a monetary union with so many countries at the same time. that's never been seen in history. the differences are too great and the euro makes them even greater. and what is the consequence? fighting, everywhere, between countries, within countries, emotions, anger, blame, bitterness. mr verhofstadt, who is a passionate advocate of a european tax, an eu tax: the whole thing could fall apart if he wants it to. then we'll end up at mr. beck's steep exit. i feel that we are standing on the precipice, the north-south divide in the eurozone that can no longer be bridged. the eurozone is becoming a prison for everyone for other reasons. the portuguese prime minister has suggested that the netherlands should no longer participate in european decision-making and leave the eurozone. i thank the european prime minister for that suggestion, i'll think about it. what i see is debt on debt on debt. i see the tower of babel, ladies and gentlemen, and you all know how that ended.
mr president, covid-19 has certainly shone a light on obvious inequalities. what do we do about it? president von der leyen said ‘saying sorry only matters if we change our behaviour’. nurses, care-workers, bus drivers, supermarket workers, are now described as ‘key workers’. are we going to compensate them for the years of being under-valued, under-paid and now risking their lives? we can’t go back to normal, because normal wasn’t good, it was neo-liberalism. neo-liberalism lies at the heart of the eu and at the heart of everything that’s wrong with it. the pursuit of it is why we have not agreed to allow coronabonds for the likes of italy, ireland and others. it is why germany and the netherlands slammed the door in their face – they talk the talk on solidarity but they don’t walk the walk. the bank of england can issue their own currency and debt. can the eurozone? or would it not suit the more powerful countries? we want the eurozone project to survive but it has to change, it has to say goodbye to neo-liberalism. your resolution is calling to fight the virus by calling on russian and chinese propaganda to stop. that’s propaganda in itself! are there any adults in the room?
in writing. today's plenary debate will focus on the crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic and the european response to it. in such a critical situation, when we debate and decide on issues of paramount importance, we should especially keep in mind the functioning of the law and the rule of law. we can't justify attacks by saying that our operations are unpredictable or inconsistent with the law. like all institutions, the institutions of the european union must operate according to predetermined rules and in accordance with the law. this is stated in article 2 of the basic treaty, which calls the rule of law the basis for the functioning of both the union and the member states. this requirement also applies to the european parliament. in my opinion, the current method of sitting and voting adopted by the bureau of the ep does not satisfy the requirements of legality, since it is contrary to the treaties and the rules of procedure. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the union particularly in today's situation of lack of legitimacy cannot afford to have anyone call into question the legal validity of its decisions. i hope that, taking into account my earlier proposals in this respect, the european parliament will take the necessary measures to restore lawful operation as soon as possible, in order to avoid any possible future legal disputes.
in writing. – the current epidemic situation has also proofed that future action is needed, regardless of the ‘sacredness’ of member state competences. it is intolerable that the health and quality of life of european citizens depends in particular on the given member state of the union they live in. national governments and the european commission have to strength their resolve and collaboration at eu level to combat the covid-19 outbreak. they have to adequately plan the recovery phases and better anticipate and manage future health emergencies. we need to develop a coherent set of guidelines and evidence-based strategies on the clinical management of covid-19 during the emergency and recovery phases. and we have to ensure a future european health response mechanism which will encompass an eu coordinated intensive care strategy that will oversee the timely and consistent supply of treatments, diagnostic tests, medical and technological equipment and at the same time involving doctors, experts and healthcare professionals and healthcare organisations in advisory panels and coordination groups at european level. we need the same standards, and we need the european minimum health service in every member state.
in writing. in its response to the coronavirus crisis, the european parliament, as part of the european peace project, must be the body that ensures that member states respect human rights and prevent authoritarian excesses during the crisis management. attacks on the judiciary and human rights are now commonplace. the european parliament must respond to these attacks and ensure that member states take seriously the hard-won european convention on human rights and take responsibility and ensure the rule of law. the situation in poland, hungary and greece is worrying. no government can use the coronavirus crisis to promote human rights and democracy. it is our task to ensure that europe acts in solidarity and provides protection to all people in europe during these difficult times. the incitement against minorities and the growing homophobia must end in a europe of solidarity. women must have the right to have safe and legal abortions. the refugees must be taken care of and greece must not be left alone on the refugee question again. the eu must stop the dismantling of democracy and the rule of law in hungary by victor orban. the corona crisis cannot be a vehicle for backlash.
in writing. the consequences of the coronavirus crisis can only be addressed at european level. this has become crystal clear after the wild border closures and export bans. it's just as clear that it's easier to lock down than it is to get out. the fundamental interdependence of our societies and economies means that one measure can have unintended effects on other areas of society. not only is a coordinated approach therefore necessary, but the nature of the measures will also be crucial. the joint resolution makes two things clear. firstly, most of the proposals are not new, but deal with familiar problems which were never taken up because of lack of political courage or national egoism: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. it is time to put an end to old prejudices and move towards a europe which protects its citizens. secondly, there is also the debate on the job that there would be no money to implement the green deal. it is now time to use these resources wisely in the transition to a circular, sustainable and fair economy. the green deal is a strategy for sustainable growth. just what we need.
in writing. the eu has an important role to play in the fight against covid-19 and its consequences. the danish social democrats are therefore very pleased that they have been able to reach agreement on ambitious economic aid packages for the member states. and it is good when danish tripartite negotiations on wage compensation inspire the launch of sure. at the same time, we welcome the eu's leadership in coordinating the purchase of protective equipment and medical equipment, the building of pan-european stocks to prepare us for future health crises, and the creation of 'green corridors' at border crossings to ensure that european citizens do not experience shortages of goods and that our healthcare workers continue to receive vital equipment. although health policy is and should remain largely a national concern, eu cooperation can support member states' response to the pandemic and mitigate the long-term economic consequences through sound decisions. that is why we support the joint motion for a resolution. the resolution is not without problems, however. it is very worrying when the current crisis is used to push for deeper european integration. this is not the time. we also have reservations about the unequivocal support for increasing the overall framework of the erdf and the proposal for pan-european bonds.
in writing. mr president, the corona crisis has put a new emphasis on the importance of self-sufficiency and security of supply. at its most extreme, it is currently reflected in the global reliance on china's capacity to manufacture critical protective equipment and respirators. the crisis is forcing europe to reassess its own security of supply and global supply chains. there are a number of industrial sectors where europe is highly dependent on imported materials and components. global supply chains are now long and often not transparent to companies themselves. in europe, the crisis has forced many industrial companies to shut down due to a shortage of components, as mobility restrictions around the world have put long production and logistics chains on hold. it is not the case that we should be totally self-sufficient, but europe should be able to ensure the continuity of critical production even in exceptional circumstances. the coronavirus crisis is a great lesson in that. although the risks of energy and electronics dependence have been addressed in the eu in recent years, food production, the pharmaceutical industry and now the supply of critical protective equipment have not been adequately assessed from the point of view of security of supply. it is certain that global supply chains will change as a result of the corona crisis. the eu must do more to ensure that european production is able to function even in exceptional circumstances. this may also be contributing to the acceleration of the transition to a circular economy. the new circular economy action plan, which the commission presented in march, aims to move from linear production chains to the circulation of materials and raw materials, and would reduce dependence on critical imported raw materials. it would be economically and environmentally efficient.
in writing. the deadly pandemic we're experiencing has proven that we are all equally weak in the face of the enemy. the greek government has shown decisiveness and promptness in managing the crisis, a fact which has been recognised internationally. despite the ten-year debt crisis that has shaken my country and turkey's consistently aggressive policy on migration, greece has stood up bravely and acted effectively in the face of an international problem, showing the way to large and powerful countries. the health crisis has knocked on everyone's door and drained even the most robust economies. we welcome the economic measures taken by the union to support european countries, but we need even stronger solidarity in practice now than ever before. the time is right for decisive policies which will not divide the european north and south, but which will lead to a massive recovery and shared responsibility. the issuance of a european bond will provide the necessary support to deal with the pandemic and its consequences. in these difficult times, our thoughts are with those who are fighting on the front lines and fighting an unequal battle with the invisible enemy. we owe these people our deepest gratitude and express our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims.
in writing. covid-19 has exposed the weakness of eu institutions, which have failed to take swift and coordinated action to protect the public health of citizens. he exposed how irresponsible it is to push for a liberal approach to healthcare management and how painful the consequences are of pharmaceutical companies and medical equipment manufacturers moving outside the eu. as a result, hospitals today lack life-saving respirators and medical equipment, as well as the necessary personal protective equipment. the community's helplessness is symbolized by the dramatic appeal of the italian people, who have been asking the eu for help for weeks. the commission's initial response to the pandemic was late and the proposed action was insufficient in the face of the scale of the challenges facing europe today, which is engulfed by the pandemic. the burden of the fight against the coronavirus has fallen on the shoulders of the member states. some are doing better, like poland, and some are doing worse. in the face of the rising number of cases and deaths, and the economic impact of the crisis, we need not words of solidarity, but concrete, urgent action. this is no time for political attacks. those who continue to attack poland and hungary even during the pandemic are acting wickedly. we're on the front lines of the fight, but it can't be a political fight. it is time to learn from this crisis so that the eu can take care of the health of its citizens in the future.
we are in the midst of one of the greatest crises, health, social and economic. this crisis has affected all eu countries and has required measures that none of us could have imagined until recently. countries and their governments acted quickly and according to current needs. i'm glad they kept each other informed and coordinated their moves. whether it was at european council meetings or bilaterally. they have been able to show a considerable amount of solidarity, sending each other protective equipment, medical supplies, helping each other to repatriate their citizens and taking in patients. i regret the resolution that has been tabled all the more. it does not reflect reality and is mired in the traditional euro-federalist dream of a more integrated and centralised eu. instead of looking at how the eu can actually help the member states and citizens, it's about more powers for the european commission that it doesn't need and a bigger budget that the member states have to pay anyway. and of course, they continue to cling to the policies of the new green deal, the costly restructuring of the economy and of society as a whole. brussels does not need to be the centre of the world and the eu always has to play the first fiddle at all costs. on the contrary, the strength of our cooperation lies precisely in the fact that member states are able to respond more quickly, flexibly and effectively to specific situations and problems. we need to work together and do some things together, but there's no reason to centralize and unify everything.
the joint resolution under debate in the european parliament demonstrates the broad consensus among the representatives of the peoples of the union for a strong, coordinated and united response to the pandemic, in health, economic, social and environmental terms. i would stress the measures for enhanced cooperation proposed in the field of health, in particular the strengthening of the powers of the european agencies and the creation of a european response mechanism for health emergencies. i would also stress the call for the strengthening of all the coordination mechanisms in crisis management. the creation of an additional fund for research and development in the field of innovative medicines and vaccines to deal with covid19 is also a very worthwhile proposal. the proposal that the funds made available by the financing lines approved by the eurogroup do not have negative conditionalities and also apply to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic is key to mitigating the economic and social impact. the joint bond issue to finance the recovery plan is decisive, as is the proposal to strengthen and adapt the multiannual financial framework to the new circumstances. finally, i would stress the importance of the european green deal and the digital transition as levers for recovery.
we now come to the second round of voting on the regulation amending the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the second part of the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the vote will take place in accordance with the same procedure as this morning. the second round of voting is open from now until 2.30 p.m. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. you have until 2:30. the results will be announced at 5 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.49 p.m.)
good afternoon, everybody. the session is now open and i shall now announce the results of the vote on the first package of amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the coordinated action of the european union to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the results are as follows: amendment 2 is adopted. the result will appear on the screen and you can consult. amendment no 2 was therefore adopted; amendment no 55 was rejected; amendment no 43 was rejected; amendment no 56 was rejected; amendment no 57 was rejected; amendment no 44 was rejected; amendment no 29 was rejected; amendment no 80 was rejected; amendment no 58 was adopted; amendment no 13 was rejected; amendment no 49 was adopted; amendment no 59 was rejected; amendment no 60 was rejected; amendment no 15 was rejected; amendment no 17 was adopted; amendment no 17 was adopted; amendment no 3 was rejected; amendment no 32 was rejected; and amendment no 61 was rejected. these are the results of the vote on the first package of amendments to the joint motion for a resolution. i would inform you that the results of the vote on the second package of amendments to this joint motion for a resolution will not be announced until 8.30 p.m. because the voting procedure is still in progress. we shall therefore announce the results of the vote on this second package of amendments at 8.30 p.m.
i would point out that the voting on the third set of amendments will follow the same procedure as that adopted in the first and second voting periods. this third round of voting will run until 6 p.m. you can then vote until 6 p.m. the results of the vote on this third package of amendments will be announced at 10.50 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.12 p.m.)
have a good night, everybody. i reopen the sitting to announce the results of the second round of voting and to open the fourth round of voting today. the results of the second round of voting are as follows: the regulation amending the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is adopted. we shall then come to the results of the vote on the second part of the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on concerted eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. i suggest that we do as mrs silva pereira did this afternoon, that the votes be shown on the screen and that i do not read them. they will be published on parliament's homepage immediately after the reading and can also be viewed here. amendment no 19 is rejected. amendment no 62 is rejected. paragraph 18 of part 1 the original text is adopted. part 2 is adopted as the original text. part 3 is also accepted. amendment no 63 is rejected. amendment no 64 is rejected. amendment no 65 is rejected. amendment no 66 is rejected. amendment no 33 is rejected. amendment no 34 is rejected. amendment no 35 is rejected. amendment no 36 is rejected. amendment no 45 is rejected. amendment no 46 is rejected. amendment no 67 is rejected. paragraph 20 in the original text, in three parts: part 1 is accepted. part two is accepted. part three is accepted. amendment no 37 is rejected. amendment no 68 is rejected. amendment no 38 is rejected. amendment no 39 is rejected. amendment no 40 is rejected. amendment no 41 is rejected. amendment no 10 is rejected. paragraph 23 is replaced by the original text. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the results of the vote on the third part of the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the eu's concerted action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences will be announced at 10.50 p.m.
we now come to the fourth round of voting. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in previous rounds of voting. the fourth round of voting is open from now until 9.30 p.m. so the vote is now open and you have until 9.30 p.m. to vote. the results of the vote on this fourth part of the amendments will be announced tomorrow, friday 17 april, at 9 a.m. i don't see any questions. (the sitting was suspended at 8.40 p.m.)
we are now in the third round of voting. the results of the vote on the third part of the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the eu's concerted action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences are as follows: amendment no 42 is rejected. amendment no 11 was adopted. amendment no 21: rejected amendment no 69: rejected amendment no 70: rejected amendment no 47: adopted amendment no 4: adopted amendment no 71: rejected amendment no 12 is rejected. amendment no 5 was adopted. amendment no 26 was adopted. amendment no 72 is rejected. amendment no 27: adopted by a large majority. amendment no 6 was adopted. amendment no 73: rejected amendment no 23 has been adopted. amendment no 74: adopted amendment no 75: rejected amendment no 79: rejected amendments nos 7, 14 and 28 are identical: adopted. amendment no 20 was adopted. the commission has adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion. paragraph 37 original text, in two parts: first part: adopted, second part: also adopted. amendment no 50: adopted amendment no 16 was adopted. amendment no 51: rejected amendment no 52: also rejected. the results of the vote on the fourth part of the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the eu's concerted action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences will be announced tomorrow, friday 17 april, at 9.00 a.m. the next meeting will be held tomorrow at 9 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
we begin by announcing the results of the fourth block of amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the results should appear on the screen: amendment no 53: rejected amendment no 54: rejected amendment no 76 was rejected. paragraph 43, first part: approved paragraph 43, second part: approved amendment no 48: the text is approved. amendment no 77: rejected amendment no 1 by mr 24 approved paragraph 45: the proposal is approved. amendment no 18: rejected amendment no 17: rejected amendment no 25: the text is approved. amendment no 8: the text is approved. amendment no 9: the text is approved. amendment no 78: rejected paragraph 51, first part: approved paragraph 51, second part: the commission has approved the paragraph 51, third part: approved amendment no 30: the text is approved. amendment no 1: rejected paragraph 52, first part: approved paragraph 52, second part: approved paragraph 52, third part: approved paragraph 52, fourth part: approved paragraph 53, first part: approved paragraph 53, second part: approved paragraph 55, first part: approved paragraph 55, second part: the commission has approved the amendment no 22: the text is approved. whereas: amendment no 31: rejected
we now move on to the first round of voting. we shall be voting on the following amendments: specific measures to provide exceptional flexibility for the use of the european structural and investment funds in response to the covid-19 pandemic. introduction of specific measures to respond to the covid-19 crisis. specific measures to mitigate the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on the fisheries and aquaculture sector. medical devices. the vote will take place under the same procedure as yesterday. the first round of voting will be open from 9.00 to 10.00. the vote is open. the vote will take place at 10 a.m. results will be released at 12:30 p.m. all votes today will be by roll call. meps will be able to verify the results of their votes by consulting the document which will be published on the plenary's website. so the next plenary session is at 12.30 for the outcome of the first round of voting. (the sitting was suspended at 9.09 a.m.)
the results of the first round of voting are as follows: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. amendment no 1: rejected amendment no 2: rejected amendment 3 is rejected. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. amendment no 3: rejected amendment no 2: approved by the committee on the environment. amendment no 4: rejected amendment no 1: approved by the committee on the environment. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products. amendment no 1: rejected amendment no 9: the text is approved. amendment no 2: rejected amendment no 10: adopted amendment no 11: the text is approved. amendment no 3: rejected amendment no 12: the text is approved. amendment no 13: the text is approved. amendment no 14: the text is approved. amendment no 4: rejected amendment no 15: the text is approved. amendment no 5: this is approved. amendment no 6 was approved. amendment no 7 was adopted. amendment no 8: the text is approved. amendment no 16: rejected the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the application of the rules on the protection of the health of workers from risks related to exposure to asbestos. amendment no 1: approved by the committee on the environment. amendment no 2: approved by the committee on the environment. amendment no 3: the text is approved. amendment no 4d: adopted and these were the results.
we now move on to the second round of voting today with the final votes on: the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision. the commission shall be assisted by the committee on budgetary control. mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the year 2020 mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the year 2020 the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the contingency margin. specific measures to provide exceptional flexibility for the use of the european structural and investment funds in response to the covid-19 pandemic introduction of specific measures to respond to the covid-19 crisis specific measures to mitigate the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on fisheries and aquaculture medical devices finally, we vote on the joint resolution on coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the second round of voting will be open from 12.30 to 13.30. the vote is open. results will be released at 4:00 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 12.36 p.m.)
the minutes of the sitting of 16 and 17 april will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the addressees immediately. i would like to thank all the staff and all the colleagues who have taken part, who have had the patience to use these methods, which allow us to keep our parliament open and functioning. we have become accustomed to working remotely and i think this is very important for the results and the participation that has been very broad in our work. of course, i would encourage everyone to remain active in this time of great emergency. a few days ago a great writer died who had chosen europe as his home and with his words i wish to say goodbye to us today. i admire those who resist, who made the word resist flesh, sweat and blood, and showed without great gestures that it is possible to live and live on your feet, even in difficult times. luis sepúlveda. he was a great guy. i think he's an author who's been with us in a lot of great readings. thank you and good work.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 17 april 2020.
ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we celebrated international nurses' day and the world health organization has declared 2020 the year of the nurse and midwife. i would therefore like to begin this plenary session by expressing my appreciation and thanks to the women and men in white coats who have provided essential health services with dedication, courage and humanity in such difficult times. it is our common duty to enable them to do their jobs safely and efficiently. we have already made hospitals, human resources, machinery and medical equipment available from one country to another, thanks also to the work of the civil protection: the european union is a great example of solidarity and a great asset to all our countries. today we feel the need to strengthen the european union's powers in the field of health: it is a commitment we must make to our citizens. parliament called for a european health response mechanism to prepare for and respond in a common and coordinated way to any type of health crisis. the covid-19 pandemic has shown the need for more proactive public health policy and greater and better cooperation to build resilient and accessible healthcare systems, and, above all, the need for greater solidarity in europe. seventy years ago, on 9 may 1950, the solidarity of six european countries was driving towards a europe of peace and security. a europe which, as robert schuman said, 'will be born of concrete achievements which create de facto solidarity'. this vision was the only way to ensure lasting peace and improve people's lives. it was an ambitious vision, but also very pragmatic, based on the horrors of war and the sacrifices made to end it. seventy-five years of peace, a common project, with many future challenges to face. the work is only just beginning and with our women, men and young people able to develop solidarity, as they have shown in this period of grave emergency, our task will be made easier. we have a great responsibility before us: we must live up to the expectations of the european citizens and re-launch a great reflection on the future of europe, together with immediate responses to the problems we face. this crisis is teaching us many things, but most importantly, that only together can we start again.
first of all, i would like to remind you of a number of precautionary measures that have been taken to respect social distancing. members whose names are on the lists of speakers are invited to take their seats in the chamber, where you will find a card with your name on it at your assigned place. members not on the list of speakers will be escorted by ushers to other available seats in the chamber. members who cannot take their seats in the chamber for reasons of space will be able to use the spaak 3c050 meeting room, which has been connected and equipped efficiently for this purpose. i'd like to inform you that a register of attendance is being kept in both rooms. i would remind you that as of today, when entering the parliament buildings, the use of masks covering the mouth and nose is mandatory in all areas other than the office and therefore also in the hemiciclo and in the 3c050 meeting room. speakers who prefer to participate in the debate without the mask will be allowed to do so for the duration of their speech only.
the minutes of the meetings of 16 and 17 april 2020 and the texts approved were distributed. are there any comments? the minutes of the meetings of 16 april 2020 and 17 april 2020 are approved.
mr president, i want to make a point of order. based on article 22, the president has to ensure the proceedings of the european parliament are followed correctly. and, relating to article 167, all members in this house have the right to use their language as it is an official language of the european parliament. there are members that are exempted from their participation rights and from their right to contribute to the debates because they cannot understand, contribute, or relate in the language that is served by the interpreting service. i urge you, president, to urgently now, two months after the crisis has started, to urgently secure that all elected members can participate in the debates and in the committees.
mr waitz, translations are provided for all official meetings of parliament. i don't understand the point of your intervention.
mr president, we have the case of mr bronis ropė, a fellow member of this house, who only speaks lithuanian and is not able to understand or contribute in any of the languages provided. this is just one of the examples, there are a few more.
i'll check, but i think all languages are covered. i'll be sure to inquire about the case you've indicated. there is a point of order from mr meuthen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that is exactly what is happening in this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. we cannot accept that amendments in most committees should be submitted in english only and not be admissible for individual members but only for political groups. we also consider your attempts to force members to attend committees an hour before they begin to be an unacceptable undermining of the freedom of the mandate. the way things are done here at the moment does not meet the democratic standards that are required. we therefore urge a rapid return to democratic and parliamentary normality, from which we are miles away in this house at the moment. otherwise, one cannot help feeling that not only do you not seem to be interested in this, but on the contrary you are even using the crisis to undermine democracy in this house. this, mr president, must come to an end. we'll be putting our finger, trust me, consistently in the wound.
i thank you for your comments, mr meuthen. i would remind you that we are one of the few parliaments that have kept their work open, we are an example for parliaments in other areas too, and so i think that at this moment it is not acceptable to make this criticism. as regards what you said about the amendments, the amendments were accepted in line with our rules of procedure. of course we are all living through a very difficult time, and we all need to understand, because the emergency is not over yet, the emergency is still with us and we must of course ensure safety and health, and i think that this parliament has been equipped quickly for these purposes. i thank you for your intervention, however.
an announcement regarding the extension of the tour: at the last meeting of the conference of presidents on 5 may, i decided, together with the leaders of the political groups, to extend the part-session which began today until friday 15 may. despite the pandemic, the european parliament has continued to carry out its core functions. with this extension and an appropriate system for remote voting, i am confident in parliament's ability to continue to play its full role, particularly with regard to discharge, and to cast a vote on a number of important issues, including the emergency procedures related to the covid-19 pandemic, its position on the future recovery plan and the new multiannual financial framework.
we now move on to the first round of voting.
mr president, i would like to oppose the urgency proceeding for relief measures for air services on behalf of the gue/ngl group. obviously, we were all very happy to agree to this procedure last time round regarding ghost flights, as they had an immediate impact. but now here we go again with the proposed relaxation of a whole number of important regulations in this industry without any scrutiny from the european parliament. we believe this is an incredibly dangerous procedure. in essence, we are allowing the important relaxation of regulations in the case of ground handling up to the year 2023 without any input from the committee on transport and tourism (tran) and without any discussion in this plenary. it’s not good enough. there’s nothing so urgent that it couldn’t wait another month. meanwhile, the industry that’s benefiting from these measures has announced thousands of job losses and is flagrantly refusing to honour passengers’ legal rights to a cash refund. why are we allowing concessions to this industry without demanding in return the protection of workers’ and passengers’ rights? our point is: if we accept this urgent procedure, in essence, we’re saying we’re happy to shed crocodile tears about these concerns while at the same time giving away the very leverage we have to force a change in behaviour. to do that, we need time to discuss it and, therefore, we’re opposing this procedure.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, this is not the first time we are debating the situation in hungary, but the thing is that the fidesz regime, they happen to go all the time a little bit further. when you think that now it will stop, they manage to trample on democracy and rule of law and fundamental rights just a little bit more. and i think they also deliberately do this to get other countries and other governments to follow suit. and that’s why we have to react in this house. and we have, this time, using the covid—19 crisis as an excuse, ruling by decree without a sunset clause, threatening journalists and whistle—blowers, passing laws and policies that have nothing to do with the public health crisis, such as rejecting the istanbul convention or attacking trans people’s rights. so, some say it’s not our business, let them dismantle democracy in hungary if that’s what they want to do. well, no, because we stand in solidarity, as was said here before, with all those hungarians that fight for democracy, for rights every day. they are not alone. and secondly, we make laws together here. and the authoritarian regime in hungary will make laws that all of us will have to respect. and that’s not acceptable. so standing up for law and democracy and fundamental rights in hungary is standing up for rule of law and democracy for all of us. luckily in this house, there are many of us that will not let hungary dismantle democracy. and it’s all about our business. so the question is then, what is the commission doing? what is the council doing? when will the epp expel and actually break up with fidesz? it’s a shame on you to have them there. the commission, the infringement procedures, we are waiting for them and the council, you are so weak in your statement, it is not enough. we need you to come up with a conditionality clause in the new mff, you have to be extremely strict on that. and no recovery funds to member states that don’t respect the rule of law and democracy. it is time for the commission and the council to get into the game. this house will stand up for democracy and human rights.
mr president, i’ve only been a member of this house for less than two years, but i have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that i have lost track on the countless times we discussed the democratic backslide in hungary and in poland. our respective positions, including mine, are therefore well known. so, i will spare you my usual alarm about the power grab the orbán government is operating in hungary. today, i would rather wish to address the commission and the council. where were you when democracy in hungary was put on lockdown? why is the commission, guardian of the treaties, so reluctant to act on defence of european values? i have to say that i expect more than blunt and critical statements by commissioner jourová. and why is the council so much afraid of its own shadow to act on member states that are persistently corrupting treaties and our eu values? those are the real questions that need to be addressed today. it is time for action. we have enough of those words.
mr president, covid-19 in hungary: introducing special economic zones to take over companies of strategic importance and transfer local taxes to fidesz controlled county councils; changing legislation so that further big parts of revenues of municipal governments are taken over by the central government; rejecting the istanbul convention and respect for trans people; amending the criminal code to punish so-called ‘misrepresented facts’ with up to five years. i could easily go on and would only refer to developments over the last two months. everything to combat the virus looks more like combating opposition parties, municipalities, journalists, civil society. and how can the epp, calling itself the ‘people’s party’, still continue with flimsy debates about a potential expulsion of fidesz, leading to nothing? and how can you, commissioner jourová, say we still see no reason for infringement procedures? looking back over the past 10 years, what still needs to happen? and the council and the member states, we all know the article 7 procedure is completely deadlocked. will you now finally protect democracy and fundamental rights also for hungarian citizens, and are you ready to suspend eu payments to orbán? it’s high time to act.
mr president, listen: this european parliament defends the core freedoms of every citizen of the union, including, of course, hungary. the extraordinary powers of a government must also be accompanied by extraordinary scrutiny of what it does, extraordinary freedom of expression and the capacity for effective political criticism and the rules of the game that allow it. we represent 450 million citizens. we do not feel vassals of any government; we feel free and equal. and president orbán needs to hear it and all presidents need to hear it. under the state of emergency, under the pandemic, democracy is not suspended. and there will certainly be no loophole in the arbitrariness of the public authorities which the committee on civil liberties of this parliament does not look at, criticise and enumerate, and on which we do not act in this parliament. i must tell you that there can be no impunity and listen: we are not going to stop in this parliament.
mr president, despite arresting people for sharing the numbers of free hospital beds on facebook, the hungarian government is still saying that the debate on the rule of law in hungary is just an evil conspiracy by the european union against hungary. look, you have attacked journalists, you have attacked independent ngos, you have attacked the freedom of academia, you have led smear campaigns against minorities, against the european union, against jean-claude juncker himself, and now it’s the trans community. this is not about equal gender recognition. this is a message. it is a message to everybody who is different. either you assimilate with what we think is right or we will make you do it. but i can tell you — and this goes to the hungarian government — you will not win with this. this continent thrives with freedom and diversity and we will fight for that. you will not break this community. trans people will not cease to exist just because you want them to, and we in this parliament and in the european union will stand with this community and defend their rights. (applause)
mr president, there’s no doubt about it. democracy has been attacked in poland. democracy has been attacked in france. there is vicious racism, similar to hungary, in other states, but hungary has taken it a step further. there has been a blatant and clear-cut authoritarian takeover, and it’s not an accident. it’s the product of a 10-year assault on judicial independence, on media freedom, on civil society and the right to organise. a 10-year assault in which the council and the commission did nothing. we’ve had more of the same here today. there needs to be an immediate getting behind article 7 infringements proceedings. there needs to be an immediate mechanism to cease funding those who would trample on democracy. there needs to be a political ostracisation of those who undertake the types of actions that everybody knows are being engaged in in hungary today. because if we don’t do that, then all of the other states who have the same tendencies will go the same way. and we are betraying the citizens of hungary and all of those across the union.
madam president, we’re talking about addressing symptoms and not causes. the way we produce meat today, with thousands of genetically identical chickens and pigs stuck in massive factories – natural selection, an ecosystem service that provides real-time disease protection, is more, now, effectively a thing of the past. if we do not address industrialised livestock production, we are sure to have bigger and more lethal epidemics than this one. and we cannot win the fight against covid-19 and future infectious diseases unless we properly fund a public sector that values public health over profit. a health service should not be a business opportunity for big pharma in a health crisis. the chief executive of the french pharmaceutical giant sanofi said yesterday that they can deliver a vaccine to the americans, who want to get it first, because they get more funding. this is a company that’s subsidised by the french people. this is a company that distributed eur 4 billion to its shareholders during the pandemic. the covid-19 global response framework was announced on 4 may. what conditions will be attached to the fund? at the very least, public investment in a covid-19 vaccine and the therapeutic development should come with hard conditionalities attached, including real equitable public access, non-exclusive licensing, and an affordable pricing model. but even attaching these conditionalities would not deal with the root of the problem. we need to de-commodify vaccines and therapeutics. we should nationalise pharmaceutical companies, and we should do it now.
in writing. i am convinced that the recovery fund is a necessary instrument to overcome the crisis. this will give the mff the necessary added momentum. it is essential that the use of money borrowed from the markets is strictly monitored and that the european parliament is involved in the monitoring. i believe that parliament should be closely involved in the whole budgetary process, because it is the only european body with a mandate from the people. the money for economic recovery must be well-targeted and generate high added value. it would be unacceptable for all our money to be used to plug holes caused by poor and irresponsible policy decisions. conservative monetary policy must be respected and we must take the extreme seriousness of pushing debts onto our children and grandchildren. this is certainly not in line with the principles of responsible politics. the european commission has not yet clearly indicated from which sources it will start servicing the loans it will take out from the markets. certainly, the decision-making bodies of the member states of the european union and we as members of the european parliament have the right and the duty to know all the necessary details before making important decisions. i am convinced that the same emphasis on digital transformation is needed to boost the economy and increase european competitiveness. it is one of the most important factors affecting europe's competitiveness today and in the future.
in writing. europe is facing, for the first time since the second world war, an unprecedented crisis affecting all member states. european citizens are not satisfied with the measures taken so far at european level and expect the eu to give them more powers, more solidarity and a stronger response to the crisis. the new recovery fund is an ambitious union support project with increased resources, mainly through grants. however, significant support and immediate cash disbursement should be provided for the tourism sector, which has been hit hardest by the pandemic. tourism, which contributes around 11% to european gdp and accounts for 12% of employment in the eu, is losing around €1 billion in revenues monthly due to the pandemic. the situation is particularly difficult in many eu countries which are major tourist destinations, such as greece, where the tourism sector indirectly contributes over 20% to the greek economy. the greek government has already taken important measures to support the sector, but the response should not be from individual member states but from the eu as a whole. let us not disappoint our citizens!
in writing. the proposal for a european union recovery package presented by the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, is a disruptive development in the typology of the union's responses to systemic crises. it is a strong and supportive proposal. the scale of the crisis, the perception among citizens that only a coordinated response can deal with it and the adoption by the european parliament, by a large majority, of resolutions endorsing the developments by the direct representatives of the peoples of europe are all factors in this. investing in a green, digital and resilient europe, by adding the multiannual financial framework, own resources and the creation of a €750 billion recovery fund, using common debt issues and allocating €500 billion (66% of this fund) through grants, is a potentially robust response, which the council should adopt as soon as possible, so that the european parliament's negotiation and consent procedures and specific regulation allow the resources to reach where they are needed as quickly as possible.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on wednesday 27 may 2020.
on behalf of parliament and myself, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the family and friends of george floyd. the death of mr glinne on 25 may has, as you know, provoked a great deal of protest in the united states and in europe, demonstrating to everyone that respect for democratic values and human rights is a fundamental, daily, demanding and necessary task. we can only rest when martin luther king's dream becomes a reality and people are no longer judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. this parliament has always strongly condemned all forms of violence and discrimination and is committed to respect for the rule of law. we will start our plenary today and then we will have a debate on this with this important invitation: i would like to ask you to observe a minute of silence in memory of george floyd and all the victims of violence, racism and discrimination. thank you, sir. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that spaak 3 c050 is fully connected to the chamber, so that members who cannot find a seat in the chamber can take part in our work. members whose names appear on the list of speakers are invited to take their seats in the chamber, where they will find a small sticker with their name and surname on it. members not on the list of speakers will be escorted to other seats by the ushers. i'd like to inform you that a register of attendance is connected in both halls. i would also remind you that the use of masks covering the mouth and nose is mandatory. speakers who prefer to participate in the debate without the mask will be allowed to do so for the duration of the speech only. i would also ask members to insert their voting cards when they take their seats, so that the microphones can be used more easily and they can be identified more easily. i would like to welcome the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen. thank you for being here with us.
mr president, i rise to speak on the basis of rule 157 and rule 171 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. mr. chairman, i strongly object to the way the speaking time has been allocated. for such important debates as the future of europe, as the brexit deal, as transport, the european conservatives and reformists group have four minutes. for four minutes, mr. chairman, if i'm to distribute them, i'm to give all my colleagues 17 seconds to speak. this is a pro forma debate. you are first among equals and your job is to ensure that every single european representative has the opportunity to speak, to defend his or her opinion, because that is the representatives' job to speak. i know there are those who don't want to hear from some of the colleagues. i know there are those who don't accept some of the colleagues, but they should have the freedom to say so. i'll tell the left communists to stop abusing and seeking political dividends from police violence or from vandalism and looting.
i would remind you that i must ensure, with the cooperation of the group chairmen, that the right to speak is exercised.
thank you very much for your report. of course we're close to it right now. i invite you to come to my office to tell me in detail what has happened and to ask the belgian authorities for clarification. i think they're gonna need some explanation. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman of the greens-efa group, to which pierrette herzberger-fofana belongs, and also as a citizen of the belgian state, i would like to express my indignation at the events that have befallen our colleague. mrs. fofana has committed no crime. if she was molested by a squad of police officers, it's simply because she took a picture of those police officers molesting two young people. this, much to the displeasure of the supporters of the police state, is legal in belgium and must remain so. and i cannot help but think that the colour of our colleague's skin is not alien to the very fact that she was arrested and the brutality and disrespect she suffered. we all know how difficult and demanding the job of a policeman is, but it is precisely because the police are one of the arms through which the state uses and exercises its monopoly of legitimate violence that all of them and those who wear their uniforms must at all times exercise restraint and discretion. it is at this price that they will gain the respect of all and everyone. it is therefore right that our societies rise up in mass against the increasing police violence, especially as it particularly affects people of colour and those who oppose the established order. whatever the victim's status, and pierrette said it very well, events like yesterday are intolerable. i therefore ask you, mr president, on behalf of all of us, to protest vigorously to the belgian authorities and to demand that the facts be fully explained and that appropriate sanctions be taken.
thank you, mr. president. i accept your invitation.
the final draft agenda established by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 11 june 2020 has been distributed. the following amendments were tabled. i should like to begin by informing you that i have received three requests for the urgency procedure under rule 163 of the rules of procedure to add the following legislative documents relating to covid-19 to be adopted at the sitting on 17 and 19 june. the documents concern: administrative cooperation in the field of taxation: postpone certain deadlines due to the covid-19 pandemic; the temporary exceptional support under the eafrd in response to the covid-19 pandemic; the european citizens' initiative: temporary measures regarding the deadlines for the collection, verification and testing phases in view of the covid-19 pandemic. i also inform you that i have received a procedural motion under rule 200 (4) of the rules of procedure to adjourn the vote on mr delors' report on the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement on air transport between the european union and israel. that motion will be put to the vote at the first voting session today. furthermore, as regards the two council positions on 'establishing a framework to promote sustainable investment' and 'community statistics on migration and international protection', i would inform you that no proposal has been tabled to reject the council's positions and no amendments have been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the regulation. the proposed acts are therefore deemed to be adopted. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda. wednesdaythe statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 19 june 2020 and the report by mr piri and mr hansen on recommendations for negotiations on a new partnership with the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland will be examined in a joint debate, which will take place as the second item of the afternoon after the statements by the council and the commission on the anti-racism protests following the death of george floyd. thursdaythe three statements by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on: impact of the covid-19 crisis on foreign policy; the prc national security law for hong kong and the need for the european union to defend hong kong's high degree of autonomy; the eu's response to the possible israeli annexation of west bank territories; the commission will be examining these in a joint debate, which will take place first thing in the morning. two brief presentations of the following reports will follow: the report by mr auštrevičius on the european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eastern partnership, with a view to the june 2020 summit; report by mr picula on the european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the western balkans following the 2020 summit. these reports will be examined in a joint debate, which will take place as the third item in the morning after the statements by the council and the commission on the fight against disinformation campaigns during the covid-19 crisis and impact on freedom of expression. finally, i should like to inform you that, in view of the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes on separate and distinct parts, the votes are distributed over several voting sessions. information on the distribution of votes is available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as regards the motion for a resolution to postpone the vote on the report by mr de clercq on the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement on air transport, pursuant to rule 196 of the rules of procedure, in addition to the rapporteur, only one opposing speaker and the chairman or rapporteur of the committee responsible may speak. is there anyone in the chamber who wishes to speak? i give the floor to mrs clare daly, who will be tabling the motion for a resolution on the postponement of the vote.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, yes, i would like to support the request to postpone the vote on the ratification of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement with the state of israel. this ratification has no actual practical implications as the agreement has been provisionally applied since 2013, but to adopt it now in the context of the announcement by the new israeli government of their imminent plans to annex one third of the occupied palestinian west bank, in flagrant breach of international law, is of substantial symbolic and political importance. to ratify this agreement now would send an inconsistent message from the european parliament. it would be perceived as an upgrade in bilateral relations with the state of israel, a positive for them and a complete shift in the eu’s long-standing policy of linking any upgrade in the relationship with israel to progress on conflict resolution. clearly this latest move from israel is only going to accelerate the conflict and the hardship on the palestinian people. we should not normalise israel’s violation of international law by ratifying this agreement now, and i’m asking colleagues to please support the postponement of this decision.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, if one is not ready to speak for freedom everywhere, we cannot expect freedom to be granted anywhere. china continues to subvert hong kong’s autonomy, rule of law and fundamental freedoms, as well as international agreements. the latest unilateral decision by the national people’s congress of china to enact a national security law for hong kong seriously threatens the city’s autonomy, rule of law and fundamental freedoms. it is expected that the law will introduce a range of vague and draconian charges. two weeks ago, over 900 political leaders worldwide, including many of you, made a joint statement condemning this move. the joint motion for a resolution of this parliament provides a clear and principled stance on the situation in hong kong and upholds the values on which this union has been built, and which should and must direct our foreign policy, as stipulated in article 21 of the treaty. i therefore call on all members to support this resolution and to stand with the people of hong kong.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, it is very clear for me. i defend the ‘one country, two systems’ principle so i stand with the people of hong kong and support their freedom of expression. the arrest of four democratic leaders, the violent crackdown on protestors and the new security law are an assault on the autonomy of hong kong. luckily, this parliament is united in a very strong resolution, asking china to withdraw the security law, to respect the freedom of people in hong kong and to show that it is willing to respect the rule of law. if not, we, the international community, should consider a case before the international court of justice and magnitsky—style sanctions. mr borrell, let me stress that, with almost 500 million consumers of chinese products, we have the necessary economic leverage to make a change. i want europe to engage with china. i want europe to look for a new china strategy. but we have to do this by defending our values and our interests. that’s why i plead again to china: withdraw the security law and give the people of hong kong the autonomy that has been agreed upon in the ‘one country, two systems’ agreement. our group, renew, stands for democracy values everywhere in the world.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, communist china is the evil empire of the third millennium. the chinese communist dictatorship is the greatest threat to our freedom and democracy. the coronavirus emergency, the war against hong kong in violation of international law and the chinese spying inside european institutions are facts that demonstrate this in a glaring way. it is scandalous that europe and the italian government of pd and 5 stars are silent accomplices to the misdeeds of the chinese regime. no more silences, no more double-crossing, no more lying to me! europe must demand the truth about the crimes committed by china. our lives and our values are not for sale in exchange for some blood-soaked deal. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are facing an economic war and a war of civilisation which the chinese dictatorship has declared against the western world. we are firmly committed to the atlantic alliance and must be prepared to defend our freedom and democracy by all means. italians, europeans, free men from all over the world will never die slaves to the chinese communist regime.
mr president, the eu’s objective on hong kong is to make china respect hong kong. respecting hong kong means respecting international law and particularly the right to self-determination. making china respect hong kong will open the door for a greater respect of human rights in all the country and so will offer hope to people like the uyghurs today victims of a tragic ethnic and religious persecution. if, on the contrary, the eu fails in this purpose, if the eu just makes grandstanding rhetoric and photoshop diplomacy, covering up the more unpleasant side of this great economic partner of ours, china, the discussion will be not on the concept of one country-two systems, but the eu will have shown yet again that it has one set of principles, two standards. let me say that i don’t trust much in this diplomacy that has shown its docility in confronting china’s pressures but, mr josep borrell, i’m ready to be surprised.
mr president, the us senate unanimously passed the hong kong human rights and democracy act last november, designed to protect us business interests. sadly, the protest movement in hong kong has been hijacked by washington-sponsored protesters who have turned justified anti-neoliberalism corruption protest into anti-china protests, fuelled by xenophobia and racism. the national endowment for democracy, an engine of us regime change machine, has recruited hong kong opposition leaders to orchestrate the protests and poured millions of dollars into them. meanwhile in the us, they have a brutal far-right administration that lynches its black and brown people every day, brutalises protesters in the streets, imprisons, disenfranchises and pushes into forced labour more people than any country on earth. there are more black people in the american incarceration system today than there were slaves in 1850. this is the system that sings the praises of the violence of the hong kong protesters. this is our third plenary debate on hong kong. when are we going to have one on yemen? this parliament needs to stop being a lapdog to a lawless us government.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i think at this stage, for me, the schengen acquis can be summed up as ‘free movement is a cherished european value, except when it isn’t’, which is quite a lot, especially if you’re a person of colour or someone who is black. i think we have to start by acknowledging that schengen has been at breaking point since 2015. internal border controls, which are only ever supposed to be allowed on a temporary basis as a measure of last resort, are being thrown up by member states as and when they like: reintroduced and prolonged 50 times since 2015. at this stage, totally illegal, but the commission has not acted to sanction these states. of course you haven’t, when we’re talking about countries like germany in april this year extending border controls with austria under the threat of migration. i don’t how the migrants are going to make it through the croatian borderguards beating them back there to make it to austria in the first place. so in the context of the commission failing to act, i’m really proud of the resolution that parliament has on pushing back the attacks on schengen. it’s the result of collaboration between the groups. we need to defend free movement and i hope the resolution is passed.
madam president, since 1970, over 700 000 square kms of the amazon rainforest has been destroyed. the greed of the agri-business conglomerates and mining corporations on both sides of the atlantic are the main drivers of this destruction. climate change mitigation is not a threat to farmers. neoliberal eu trade deals are the real threat. now we have the mercosur deal, which looks like the european commission, working in the interests of big business, helping them to find the cheapest raw materials with zero regard for the environment, climate system breakdown or indigenous people. the mercosur deal will lead to more deforestation of the amazon. it will be bad for small farmers in ireland and all across europe. we are forming a new government in ireland and the mercosur deal barely got a mention in the programme for government. it says there will be an assessment, which is political speak for doing nothing, despite the fact that fianna fáil and the greens opposed it before now. small farmers in ireland are not just worried about their livelihoods, they are also sick of the hypocrisy of the eu calling out for member states to reduce agri-emissions, while preparing to import more contaminated, environmentally destructive food and feed from south america.
mr president, a large section of turkey's political staff is invested in nationalism and tension. mr erdoğan's strategy opens up issues that were closed 100 years ago with the treaty of lausanne. his dangerous revisionism touches greece, the eastern mediterranean, libya and syria and as we know, he recently made a provocative statement that he wants to turn hagia sophia into a mosque, provoking christians all over the world. at this scale, the answer cannot be just words but a comprehensive plan. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with turkey, and we are very pleased that the turkish government has agreed to the agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cypriot authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty of rome. and of course, if turkey continues to provoke, the 'sudden death' of the customs union must be imposed, because turkey's economic dependence is greater than europe's need for turkey. finally, we want peace and prosperity in the wider region. but if the council chooses tolerance, the cost to the european peoples will be... )
mr. chairman, mr. high representative, colleagues, i wonder what else does erdogan need to do to understand the true nature of his policies? i'll remind you of the facts: erdogan has occupied and continues to occupy illegally parts of cyprus, waging war on his own territory against the kurds, waging an illegal war in syria, waging a war in libya, trying to occupy the mediterranean for access to oil and gas. today, the turkish newspapers reported that they have decided to turn the hagia sophia into a functioning mosque and have already begun to do so. i remind you: st. sophia is the mother of all churches, not for nothing is she called the "mother of all churches". what else does this person have to do to get you to understand his nature and his behavior? why would you do that? maybe you should propose to make this hall a functioning muslim shrine? when will you finally understand that turkey is not a european country and will never be one: neither territorially, nor culturally, nor civilisationally, nor politically? how long will this circus of negotiations on turkey's membership of the european union continue? how long will european funds continue to be poured in to help erdogan pursue his islamization policy and his hostile policy towards other countries? mr. high representative, one thing is clear: the sooner these shameful negotiations are brought to an end, the better, and please take a stand on the conversion of hagia sophia into a mosque.
mr president, will we remain unmoved for much longer in the face of turkey's repeated provocations in the mediterranean? the aggressive attitude of a turkish frigate towards a french naval vessel, which was operating under the auspices of nato, should be a wake-up call to us all. i think that this incident has elicited very little reaction, although it illustrates, in my view, the inconsistency of the so-called european pillar of the atlantic alliance and justifies those who speak of nato as being in a state of 'brain death'. more broadly, while we boast about a 'power europe', a 'europe of independence', i think it is actually our imperiousness as europeans that has allowed turkey to establish its quest for power in the near and middle east. let us remember syria, where we were unable to help our kurdish allies. let's look at what's happening in libya today. so yes, mr erdogan is taking advantage of our weaknesses, our divisions, our hesitations and it is high time that europe got its due. we owe it to the europeans, but we also owe it to the turkish people, whom we do not confuse with their rulers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, in describing the relationship between turkey and the european union at the moment, you have described it as a 'negative trend'. i would ask you to use less naive terminology if possible, because what is happening between turkey and the european union is not a negative trend, it is a failure to respect the normal rules of institutional cooperation. what has happened is not the continuation of a request for accession, but the decision not to join, replaced by the strategy, rightly termed neo-ottoman, which we have seen applied in cyprus, greece, but also in egypt, tunisia, algeria and libya. it means replacing europe in the mediterranean. i would remind you of the words of a great folk singer, aldo moro, who described this drama by not speaking of europe as a continent in the mediterranean, but saying that europe is the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'within half a century turkey will emerge as one of the world's strongest powers, sailing towards greater goals' the new sultan erdoğan spoke in february this year before the parliament in ankara: a declared will to power, a neo-ottoman design that is becoming more and more evident. first, support for islamist militias and aggression against the kurds in syria, then illegal drilling off cyprus, to the detriment of italian and french interests, then intervention in libya on the side of the tripoli government, and then the unprejudiced use of the migratory pressure, first on the borders with greece and bulgaria and then in the central mediterranean, through libyan smugglers and now also algerians: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and then there is the support for political islam in europe, through the turks who live on our continent, who are even called upon to colonize us by giving birth to children; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the principles of the european union. in this alarming situation, the soft restrictive measures proposed by the european council are not enough. the italian brothers have always believed that turkey, because of its history, geography and culture, is not part of europe as we understand it. it is time to definitively withdraw the preaccession status of turkey and to say no once and for all to its accession to the european union.
mr president, turkey is now a lawless state. it’s pushing forces underground in iraq against the will of the iraqi government, it encroaches on the sovereign territory of syria whenever it feels like it, and it is ignoring a un weapons embargo in libya. but turkey couldn’t do what it does in northern iraq and syria without a green light from the united states and, sadly, the eu is subservient to the us. we hear so much about european values, but we are playing a pitiful role in the region. the caesar sanctions introduced by the us are a blanket punishment of the people of syria and we are saying nothing about it. and yet we’re happy to support war criminals like bin salman and netanyahu. mr borrell, you talk about the turkish showing solidarity because they’re blocking up 3.5 million refugees for us. what’s the future of the refugees? europe doesn’t want them. they’re not going to stay in turkey forever. why don’t you work with syria and ignore the threats from the us because, until syria recovers, the refugees can’t go back. it looks like now you don’t want them to go back. cop on to yourselves!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this debate on the situation of romani inclusion in parliament is urgently needed. covid-19 has made the effects of anti-gypsyism visible to everyone. we are witnessing police violence against romani people across europe. in bulgaria, romania and slovakia, we could see how the people who are locked up in their neighbourhoods had little access to food, drinking water or healthcare. in germany, too, we are witnessing police violence against sinti and roma, and in berlin there is a debate about the dismantling of the holocaust monument to the sinti and roma because of a tramline: a disgrace and insult to the victims of the holocaust. i am the rapporteur of the house on this subject. in my current report, we express clearly our demands on the future eu-romani policy and identify the real barriers to the inclusion of romani people. a new approach is needed. we must put the fight against anti-gypsism and social exclusion first. equal participation of romani people must be achieved at all levels of government through binding targets and legislation at national, regional and local level. an adequate budget must be dedicated to the implementation of the next romani framework. i am a sinto, the son of a holocaust survivor who lost six aunts and uncles in the holocaust. i know how racism feels and i don’t want anyone to endure what me and my people have to endure on a daily basis. unfortunately, this house had to witness racist speeches, mr dzhambazki, mr uhrík, please hold on for a moment and put your feet in our shoes and ask yourself how it feels facing racism, being degraded, insulted and beaten. we have not only covid-19 in europe, but a pandemic that is older and even more dangerous: racism. we are finally prepared to confront this reality and correct this injustice. (applause)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, it’s fitting for me to talk about roma inclusion in a week when eileen flynn has become the first irish traveller to take a seat in the irish parliament. let’s hope she is going to be the first of many. but for me, what’s even better about her is, i met her first when she was a campaigner for abortion rights in ireland – not an easy position for a young traveller woman to be in. reproductive rights are so important for traveller and roma women because they face such exclusion and discrimination in many of our member states. in bulgaria, within maternity hospitals, roma women are being segregated and receiving inferior treatment. in hungary, in other countries, not been able to get reparations for forced sterilisation, and so on. in my own country, ireland, anti—traveller sentiment is broadly acceptable, which means that state money for traveller housing is not spent, the traveller health strategy has not been implemented in 10 years, and the traveller health committee has not met in 10 years. so, we can have all the strategies we like, but we really need implementation if we are to achieve equality.
madam president, i would like to use my minute to really address the ‘frugals’, the five frugals in your council where all our political families have our issues, and i think we have to be fair on that. but the questions to the frugals would be, what were you thinking? ten years after a euro crisis when there is finally a momentum for a public investment plan – let’s cut it. a health crisis hitting europe everywhere – let’s cut the eu for health programme. a seven-year eu budget investing in our next decade – let’s cut the budget for research. the next big crisis being climate change – let’s cut the just transition fund. the european values being challenged everywhere – let’s kick the rule of law can down the road, again. yes dear frugals, you have your rebates, but we are discussing the future of europe here and that is in everyone’s interest, certainly in yours. we as a european parliament are offering you this summer to rethink your priorities.
madam president, i hear that the agreement reached at the european council is historic. but we know from experience and from lucidity that sometimes open doors are quickly closed to the logic of competition and competition. the future will tell. but the historicity cannot be short-term, and the agreement reached in the council came at the cost of cuts in the european union's long-term policies: the cap, research, erasmus, health, the green deal and the esf. the agreement also coincided with a worrying start to the renationalisation of european policies. i believe that in the end this agreement shows that national interests have prevailed over the european policies we are defending. in conclusion, i would like to say to the council that the european parliament has the last word, that we are co-decision-makers on regulations and that we are the guarantors of the community method.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 july the europe of solidarity was born. this date will surely be remembered as the beginning of a new era: the european council in brussels in december last year, with 750 billion euro earmarked to combat the economic crisis and the issuing of common securities, we have planted the seed of the europe of the future. we shall soon reap the rewards and be generous, even to those who hoped to reap only rubble, such as the italian and foreign sovereignists. of course, there is still much to be done. the european parliament will be taking a stand to improve the agreement: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. how can the european union's health programme be cut in the middle of a health emergency? we must also defend investment in southern europe and revive the tourism and cultural industries, which have suffered most from the pandemic crisis. we are certainly proud of the work we have done, the path we have taken is the right one. the dream of spinelli and the other founding fathers is back to save this europe, which until yesterday was dying. we 're not afraid to move forward . the future is waiting for us.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate the european council on this rapid agreement. that's a strong signal. it is a signal that europe is fighting, that europe is fighting over different interests, but that the member states are able to find common positions quickly in the end. this is also the important message to the citizens: europe is reliable, we are in solidarity and we are facing the challenges together. that is why this paper is a good basis for negotiation. but we will not and cannot simply accept this package. the money is not due until january 1st. we have a few weeks to agree on some improvements. but we also have issues that we need to address, which are: have we really done enough to ensure that the money is also going into meaningful investments and not just keeping old structures alive with fresh money? why have the member states not had the courage to make european union programming possible, as we have already done successfully in many regional and structural funds? why have the member states insisted on presenting programmes on their own responsibility and not on our joint standing as the european union? my second question to you, mr president-in-office of the council, is: how do we ensure that not only the 1% of european money as a share of european gdp - or now, for the next two or three years, we will reach 3 or 4% - but above all the 49% of european gdp that is spent in the member states - in the cities and municipalities, in the regions, in the nation states - is also really well allocated? the european union's overall package can only be effective if the member states, with their 49% of the budget, take the right measures in the coming weeks and months. and that message should also come from us in the european parliament, that we have a clear expectation here also from the governments and parliaments in the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that you have come out of the negotiations with a result, but it is not good what is contained in this compromise. the bitter pill you mentioned here today, which was served to us, we will not swallow. the commission's proposal cuts resources where it is particularly important for the european union's future viability. the investeu programme, which supports climate-neutral investments, will be cut from €31.6 billion to €8.4 billion. for social justice change, we have reduced the just transition fund from 40 billion to 17.5 billion. in the midst of a global pandemic, you're cutting health care to just 240 million euros a year. how can that be? the reconstruction programme is called next generation eu. right now, it looks like the next generation of the eu means that the climate crisis, digitization, health, is for the next generation to worry about, not us. this is unacceptable. and to prevent exactly this kind of disregard for the priorities of the citizens, it must be clear: we as the european parliament need a say in the reconstruction programme. and then the biggest weakness: the rule of law. the draft is totally unacceptable at this point. the rule of law is the common principle, it is the basis of cooperation, the basis of trust and the shield for our fundamental rights. it is this agreement that makes the pill so bitter. parliament will continue to fight for a better formula for the budget pill until there is enough rule of law to allow journalists, judges, protesters and citizens to sleep well again, since their fundamental rights are protected.
mr president, the european summit has ended with the betrayal of mr rutte. after four days of shadow boxing, he threw in the towel and walked away. what's the result? we're getting a higher eu budget, despite the british. there will be european taxes, and also european debts - which mr rutte always said he was so opposed to. he talks about an emergency shutdown procedure, but that is actually a farce there is no plug that you can pull out and so he leads the netherlands into the transfer union. france suspends pension reform, spain introduces a basic income and dutch pensions are cut. that's very bitter for these people, and they don't understand that. that is why i am calling for a referendum in the netherlands on this redistribution plan. let the people decide their own money.
madam president, as you know, yesterday dr syed ali, a frontline health-care worker, died in dublin’s mater hospital, a day before his 60th birthday. he is one of the many casualties to this health crisis and i have to say, sitting here, i’m really struck by the shocking disconnect between the words spoken, the deal before us and the reality for his family and for the citizens of europe. we have been through an unprecedented health crisis. we’re still in it. in may, the commission told us it needed eur 9.4 billion for a new stand-alone health programme, the first instalment of a necessary eur 70 billion programme. instead, we get nothing for health in the recovery and eur 1.7 billion in the mff, while eur 13.5 billion goes on our defence budget. what an insult to dr ali. we talk about solidarity, but your conditions on your form sound very much like austerity to me, with no such conditions on the rule of law. i’m sorry, but it is a monument to european hypocrisy.
mr president, madam vice-president, colleagues, fellow lgbtqi community members, and our allies, both in the chamber and indeed working in the institutions, today the entire european union is at risk. the european project hangs in the balance. this is about more than just the terrible lgbtqi rights violations in poland. this is about who we are, and it is about what our european union stands for. do we not value freedom, equality and the rule of law above all else? was the european union not founded to protect our citizens’ rights against discrimination? the desire to protect our people – all our people, regardless of their sexuality or gender identity – is why we stand here today. and we do not discriminate when it comes to protecting the fundamental rights of any of our european citizens. if we do not take decisive action against a government that is punishing our people for simply existing, then what are we here for? what are we here for? the european commission and the european council have to take stronger action against the polish government, not only to protect the polish lgbtqi community members, but also to protect our fundamental values and protect our european union.
mr president, it’s shocking that in this year, 2020, we have a situation in poland with some of the towns declaring themselves lgbti—free zones. this is a patent violation of the most basic human rights. i speak as a member of the european parliament’s lgbti intergroup, but also as a citizen of a traditionally catholic country with a large – and, can i say, welcome – polish community. ireland also happens to be the first country in the world to have introduced marriage equality for same sex couples through a popular vote. lgbti—free zones are an abhorrent infringement of people’s rights to dignity and equality, and i wholeheartedly support calls for parliamentary, commission-led and international condemnation and action on this distressing issue.
mr president, last july, the leaders in the council agreed a eur 1.8 trillion package. that’s the multiannual financial framework and also the recovery fund of eur 750 billion. we accept that own resources have to fund this, but we have to be very cautious and honest in our debate here and in our discussions. the fact of the matter is that revenue and taxation is a member state competency and that has to be debated in a very careful manner. we can’t just absolve that fact in the treaties that underpin the european union. there is acknowledgment that own resources must be expanded to fund the recovery package – the border adjustment tax, digital levy, the energy trading scheme and a financial transaction tax. these particular issues must be discussed, but at the same time we do not want to run headlong into introducing taxes that could put the european union at a competitive disadvantage with its international competitors. bear in mind that the oecd is in discussions about an international tax obligation of countries across the globe for a fair and equitable tax system, but don’t tie the hands of the european union in advance of those recommendations being made by the oecd.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, the european union's civil protection mechanism, in its original form, was set up to help member states deal with natural disasters. resceu capacity, a pan-european reserve of firefighting aircraft and helicopters, specialised medical equipment and other resources have been created. the pandemic has come and i am very pleased that resceu's capacity has also included medical supplies, such as personal protective equipment or laboratory equipment. the european union civil protection mechanism has become one of the few instruments of solidarity during the pandemic. but now we can make this mechanism much more efficient and faster. the experience of fires and pandemics has shown that the european union and the member states are not sufficiently prepared to respond to large-scale emergencies, which is unacceptable. where cooperation makes sense, it should be encouraged. and when is it more necessary than when life is at stake? i'm glad we could work something out.
member of the commission. the commission is not i'll speak german for a change. i thank you for your overwhelming support and your united view. but then mrs beigneux's last statement makes me want to clarify a few things. what we are discussing now is a necessary development of the existing mechanism, which, as some have quite rightly said, was originally designed to respond to natural disasters, and natural disasters do not occur - thank god - all at the same time in europe, so that this subsidiarity mechanism has worked. i have seen this time and again in my various roles as commissioner over the last ten years. we are now faced with a disaster which affects virtually all member states, and so their ability to help others is limited. we have seen, on a modest scale, how the situation has simply improved in some countries, for example, by transferring patients who needed intensive care to other countries where various beds were still available. but all of this was very limited, and we also had known problems with supplying a certain number of devices. all of this is to be addressed and eliminated by this new mechanism. there is no question of removing any competence from the member states. on the contrary, it is simply that we can prepare ourselves better for future crises by learning from the current situation, and that is all that is needed. i would also like to join in the thanks to my colleague mr lenarčič for his very intensive and dedicated work over the past months.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first of all like to thank president juncker and commissioner christo stylianides for doing everything they could to create resceu. and of course, commissioner lenarčič, who is continuing the efforts, as well as my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, with whom we have had a perfect cooperation. the commission is aware of the proposals we are putting forward, and we are aware that all european citizens should feel equally safe in whatever member state they live in. the committee on the environment has approved the text by a large majority, and i believe we will have similar results in the house. we have acted quickly and i believe that, despite the difficult working conditions due to covid-19, we can in the next three months from the presentation of the commission be ready to start negotiations, and thus have the whole of the legislation in the council. but unfortunately there are some who do not share the sense of urgency. the german presidency feels that there is time. they view the necessary changes we propose with skepticism. they seem to be unable to understand the new challenges, perhaps because they have the capacity to respond to them themselves. let's put aside the introversion and look at the big picture. the council and the member states must rise to the occasion and come to the negotiating table with a comprehensive proposal, not with a law-making process that postpones the necessary institutional changes to the distant future. rigidity is a bad advisor. we need flexibility and, with solidarity as a compass, to find a compromise for the benefit of all peoples. the vision of a self-reliant europe is the supranational mechanisms that can guarantee solidarity beyond the powers of each state, whether we are talking about the welfare state or the economy or security. the 140,000 people who have fled from the coronavirus are not just a number - they are our relatives, they are our friends, they are our neighbours; for me, it is my good friend manolis. the best way to honour their memory is to ensure that the next time the european union is more prepared to defend human life.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, september 15, 2020 and the final vote will be held on wednesday, september 16, 2020. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr jutta paulus, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2015/757 to take due account of the global fuel consumption data collection system for ships (com (((2019) 0038 - c8-0043/2019 - 2019/0017 ((cod)) (a9-0144/2020).
member of the commission. – mr president, addressing shipping emissions remains a priority for the commission. the eu system to monitor, report and verify these emissions is an important step to integrating emissions into eu climate policy; but it is just a first step, because we aim to come up with plans to reduce overall emissions in the maritime sector. the key goal of our reporting system is to collect robust and verified co2 emissions data, to make those data publicly available, to stimulate the uptake of energy-efficient technologies and behaviours, and to inform our policymaking. since the entry into force of the data collection system of the international maritime organization (imo) in 2019, all large ships calling at ports in the european economic area have to report their full consumption and other information under two systems: the european and the international one. in accordance with the monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) regulation, the european commission has now proposed to align, where appropriate, the eu mrv system with the imo data collection system. the aim is to preserve the objectives of the current mrv regulation by keeping its governance and ambition, while including technical adjustments to align the two regimes, simplifying compliance. the commission proposal does not affect the main thrust of the european system, which is to maintain the robustness and transparency of our rules. the report of the environment committee before you has received the commission’s full attention. as you know, some proposed amendments go significantly beyond the commission’s proposal to align the european global data collection systems, namely the amendment to extend the european emissions trading system (ets) to maritime transport and the amendment for large shipping companies to reduce their annual average co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030. while the european commission fully agrees with the european parliament that the shipping sector needs to duly contribute to the implementation of the paris agreement and must achieve the union-wide climate neutrality objective, we don’t consider the review of the eu reporting rules to be the appropriate vehicle to include shipping in the ets or to introduce operational component density requirements. there is also no impact assessment for these two elements. there is a difference of opinion on the instrument, but our political goals are shared. as you know, the commission has already announced, as part of the european green deal, its intention to extend the ets to maritime emissions, and the impact assessment is being prepared. work on this is in full swing and the commission will come forward with the relevant legislative proposals to reduce the climate impact of shipping activities. let me stress, the commission will duly take into account the elements proposed by this parliament when developing its initiatives under the european green deal. for these reasons – and as we are still awaiting the council’s position on these elements – the commission has to reserve its position on the amendments concerning the extension of the emissions trading system and the carbon density requirements for ships. of course, the same applies to other amendments that were not in the original commission proposal. the commission looks forward to continuing discussions on other important aspects of its proposal. these include possible improvements to the scope of the regulation in terms of ship size, rules when there is a change of company, the reporting of cargo carried, and the review clause within the remit of the reporting system. let me assure you that the commission remains committed to reducing emissions in the maritime sector. let me also assure you that the upcoming 2030 climate target plan will show not only this commitment but also the ambition to get it done. we will work hand in hand with this parliament on our pathway to climate neutrality in shipping and beyond.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, europe is going through this huge transition from our history as a coal and steel union to the climate neutrality union. everyone needs to contribute in that transition and today the shipping sector is not part of it. they sail away and do their own thing. it’s not acceptable. we need to make sure that everyone is part of this transition if we are to deliver what it is our right to do, as politicians. we know that the shipping sector also has a very negative impact on the climate and it risks to have even more so in the future. it’s extremely worrying that it, in fact, has proceeded to raise its contribution to emissions between 50 or 250% to 2050, when we are supposed to be climate neutral. we in the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats (s&d) refuse to stand passive and therefore we are very happy that in this monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system is a good piece of legislation for reporting emissions, but now we finally have an emissions trading system (ets) proposed on the table and we believe this will be very important to take this sector under its, rightly, demand to contribute. we also demand that every ship will reduce its emissions by at least 40% by the year 2030. it should not be free to destroy the future – not the climate, not the environment – and we know that the environment is also hit by this sector today; biodiversity, air quality, we need to do something about that. therefore, we would like to have a fund for the sea to help the sector improve on all this and we would also like a big part of this fund to go towards helping the sector to transition. so this is a really clever proposal that we worked on together. i would like to say to the rapporteur and to all the shadow rapporteurs that i have been very honoured to work with you. i really think we have something good on the table.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) showed real ambition in voting for a radical expansion of the scope of the commission’s proposal. we are proposing to include shipping in the eu emissions trading system (ets), without further delay with this regulation. market-based solutions for the climate crisis, such as ets, have generally failed. however, in this instance we are proposing to frame shipping’s inclusion in the ets with a binding regulatory target of 40% emission reductions per transport work by 2030. the rapporteur’s report is mainly concerned with emissions efficiency. shipping emissions are directly related to global trade and consumption. therefore, in order to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport, in addition to emissions per transport work, the eu must promote and pursue a global de-growth strategy rather than the new growth strategy proposed in the european green deal. in amendment 71, i also propose to delete the exemption for warships. militaries are massive polluters. the us military, for example, doesn’t just destroy the lives of more people and communities than anyone else, as julian assange has highlighted, they’re also one of the biggest polluters on the planet, and i see no good reason to exempt any warships.
madam president, commissioner, minister, it is true that we are experiencing unprecedented confusion. you said it yourself: there was no coordination or deharmonisation. we have seen it in the tests, we have seen it in the common criteria, even for the evaluation of the number of deaths, and we also see it in the classification and the european colour mapping. we have even seen this recently with regard to the quarantine period, which varies between 7, 10 and 14 days. it is very important to harmonize these elements. we have the ecdc recommendations and i think the member states should follow them. there is also confusion about the transparency of the commission. we have learned that there are eight negotiators who are making contracts with laboratories but whose names we are not given. this is completely unusual since we want to check for links or conflicts of interest between the dealers and the pharmaceutical companies. we want access to markets and we are told that they are private markets. that's public money we give to the labs! also, we want to know how much we're giving to each lab. we also want to know the liability for side effects. who is responsible: the laboratories or the member states? finally, we cannot build trust if we do not have access to clinical trials before marketing authorisation. that's how you get back the trust.
madam president, the economic losses caused by the restrictions on mobility have been enormous for many sectors, especially tourism and the hospitality industry. neither calls to the commission to lift these controls nor the re-open eu website have been enough, as we still have no agreements between member states. there are no common health assessment criteria, nor are there any legal security mechanisms for receiving travellers and workers. we've found from disparate risk ratings to lack of recognition of diagnostic tests, to enforcing illogical quarantines: ten days, fourteen days, seven days. this lack of coordination and seriousness has led to an unprecedented fall in tourism, a sector in which many families in spain live. his situation is untenable today. all this highlights the need to take harmonised measures to ensure the functioning of the schengen area on the one hand and the exercise of the sovereignty of the member states in protecting the health of citizens on the other. we have been calling for action in this regard since last may. this situation was foreseeable and you are still involved in winning and winning competitions, as this resolution shows, instead of working on practical and effective solutions.
madam president, i obviously welcome the fact that some attempt is now being made to coordinate the covid response, but it’s pretty incredible that we’re six months into the most serious pandemic in living memory, in one of the richest regions in the world, with a massive institutional bureaucracy and we’re only getting around to it now. we cannot even compare covid statistics because of the different arrangements in place in member states. so is it any wonder that eu citizens are looking on in disbelief. this is a single virus so why are there so many different responses? people want to follow the rules, but it’s difficult when the rules change and when they are inconsistent. the ecdc all along advised against border controls, but they were ignored, and the problem, you see, is that what it needed was a politically coordinated response, but it didn’t come. it needed solidarity, but you can’t develop solidarity overnight. there was no solidarity when irish single mothers paid the price of munich stockholders in the financial crisis and no solidarity for the thousands of desperate migrants on the greek island, so it’s no wonder there was no solidarity on covid. it’s an awful pity we’re coming to this situation now, but i hope we learned the lessons of it.
in writing. the annual assessment of the president of the european commission was first held at a time when the eu was also in serious crisis. since then, commissions have come and gone, national governments have changed, but one thing has remained almost constant: the crisis. this is not necessarily a bad thing, because crises are a stimulus for continuous improvement, and our european community can only get better. as a hungarian representative, i could speak in this debate about the community-destroying policies of anti-eu, illiberal governments and condemn the leaders of the union for having for years stood by helplessly as they were made fools of by political adventurers who trampled the rule of law to dust. as a hungarian representative and one of the drafters of the concept of the european health union, i would like to emphasise the importance of healthcare in the debate on the future of the union. health, which has been a third-rate area of competence for the eu as a member state. but the coronavirus has shown that without strong health systems that can provide quality care, there is no health, but there is no economy that can operate predictably. this is a turning point, a time of radical transformation: imbalances between the health systems of the member states cannot be sustained any longer. a solution is needed that leaves the member states' competences, which many people fear too much, but guarantees quality care and patient safety everywhere. that is the concept of the european health union. i think it's a big breakthrough that the chairman of the committee is behind this case.
in writing. the past year has been a challenging one for europe as a whole, and the autumn ahead looks no easier. in the future of europe, we have four major challenges to tackle this autumn. the key is to boost sustainable economic growth and competitiveness. after the acute corona crisis, europe faces a major economic challenge. as ursula von der leyen pointed out, to boost growth, it is important to remove corporate bureaucracy and barriers to the internal market, strengthen capital markets and invest in the green deal and digitalisation. at the same time, the most important foundation of the european union - the common values - must be safeguarded. democracy, freedom and the rule of law must be guaranteed in all eu member states. we must also be able to find a common line on immigration policy. we can't afford to fail again. the fourth essential theme is the common foreign and security policy. the union is too slow and too rigid in this respect, as has been shown by recent events in russia and belarus. in international crises, we need to be able to react more quickly. the foreign policy decision-making process must therefore be modified and made more effective by increasing the use of qualified majority voting. this year was supposed to be a big year for climate policy in the european union. despite the time and energy consumed by the corona crisis, the european union must remain committed to being climate neutral by 2050. i support the commission's proposal to tighten the 2030 emission reduction target to at least 55% to ensure this.
in writing. the best term to describe the state of the european union is 'stillness'. our continent has been overwhelmed by one of the greatest crises in history, and yet brussels continues to pursue its policy, displaying a total lack of self-criticism. opposition forces are accused of extremism, and consequently ignored and excluded from any decision. we hear daily calls for the rule of law and democracy, but when a political leader and former minister is put on trial for defending his country, italy, no one moves a finger. on the geopolitical front, the eu is showing incoherence and inertia towards china and turkey, certain that it can count on the weaknesses of a system based on the special interests of some member states: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the eu should reflect carefully on what has happened in recent months, remembering that member states will only be able to really get back on track after suspending some of the rules imposed by brussels. there's no more time to waste. if there is no real change, europe will continue to drift towards a decadent path which will be its end.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the confidence you have shown in us by voting in favour of the amendments we have tabled in the plenary. parliament, just three months after the presentation of the european commission's proposal, is fully prepared to start negotiations. in accordance with rule 59 (4) of our rules of procedure, i ask that the dossier be returned to the committee on the environment so that we can begin negotiations with the council and the commission. i hope that the german presidency will soon realise that there is no other choice but to come to the negotiating table without delay on a matter of such importance to the european union.
rapporteur. – madam president, today, president von der leyen called for european buildings to become less wasteful, less expensive and more sustainable. as rapporteur for this report, maximising the energy efficiency of the european building stock, i know we can do this. i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their close cooperation and support during negotiations. we now have a strong and united position on our demands for the upcoming renovation wave strategy. this is a good news story – we can create jobs, tackle energy poverty, improve air quality and reduce emissions in these extraordinary times. it tackles the health crisis, the economic crisis and the climate crisis. yesterday, weather records were broken here in belgium. 35° of heat is not normal and we know that 40% of emissions that cause this come from buildings. with the right investment, buildings can reduce emissions rather than raise them. the report says we must fight energy poverty by working with neighbourhoods and communities to ensure healthy and safe living conditions and ensure affordability. we must raise national targets and revise the energy efficiency directives and the energy performance of buildings directives and binding minimum energy performance standards are required. we also require integrated renovation programmes, a holistic approach from rooftop solar and e-mobility, from heat pumps to district heating is required. so let’s use recovery funds for the renovation way. i endorse the president’s call for a new bauhaus. as an architect, i welcome this. so let’s harness the creativity, the design skills and the demand for change and let’s start with the worst performing buildings and the communities most at risk. let’s lift people out of energy poverty and give them the buildings and the homes that they deserve.
i hope that the interruption was in the interests of all of us and that we now have the opportunity to deliver the speeches from the various seats. i would like to say this at the outset: should this again cause difficulties, i would ask you to be flexible enough to allow us to speak from a microphone that is working so that we can continue the debate. it is the content and the speech that matter, not the place in the european parliament from which we speak. but my information from the tech is that now all the microphones would have to go back. i thank you for your support in this difficult situation and for your flexibility. we now continue the debate on the council and commission statements on the rule of law and fundamental rights in bulgaria (2020/2793 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. commissioner, colleagues, as we have seen and as we have shown, we are willing to give the floor to anyone. from my microphone, we are part of the administration, we have given the floor to our biggest political opponents. that says a lot about our intent and our attitude to freedom of speech, mr. speaker, and to different opinions. ladies and gentlemen, i'm going to lay out a position that will not please the vast majority of you, this left-wing majority, who have gathered for a political consensus to make this resolution, which by the way is entirely and extremely left-wing - both politically and ideologically. we talked about the right to peaceful protest. in bulgaria, people protest, they have the right to do so, we are part of the government, but we respect their right to express themselves and to protest peacefully. but when we talk about the rule of law, let's give the definition of the rule of law. that means independent, swift, fair justice. but that's against the draft resolution. i see green people, the far left, and people who deny the right of the bulgarian constitutional court to make decisions. they deny a decision has been made. it's in direct contradiction to the idea of the rule of law. i see text in the draft resolution that defends the behavior of a group of people from one ethnic group who break the law. this also contradicts the idea of the rule of law - we are talking about the case in vojvodino. we're talking about the judicial commentary in general. politicians should not comment on the judiciary, it's against the idea of the rule of law. now we move on to the other topic the topic of corruption. well, there's something very important missing from this draft resolution. when in bulgaria we talk about corruption - let's not get angry with my colleagues from the movement for rights and freedoms - the honorable ones, they work in the national interest, but always in bulgaria people think of the movement for rights and freedoms, part of the renew group. the biggest corruption scandals were linked to this political group that makes the resolution. we, the reverend, brought up the subject of the abuses in rossenets, but we, not the istanbul coalition, we, and these people dare not say the names. when you talk about corruption in bulgaria, people always think about the movement for rights and freedoms part of renew. those colleagues who talk without reason should be ashamed of themselves. corruption, but no names. corruption has names, and that's the civil rights movement. and now the weird stuff. weird texts we're supposed to be talking about corruption, istanbul convention, same-sex marriage, separatism, in a second official language during elections. reverend, this replaces the protest. the protest is not about the istanbul convention, or at least i think so, that's how i see it. he has clear requests. how come all of a sudden you have this idea and what is the value of actually bringing up the issue of same-sex marriage, the istanbul conventions. this is something completely, completely, completely different. what i want to say to you with all due respect, knowing that you won't agree, is that you'll allow me a little respect, because i gave my word and you took my word. i wanted to tell you the whole thing. the commissioner mentioned ngos and funding. well, yes, we want in a european country like bulgaria to have no weight the erdoğan ngos, who impose islamism, and to have no weight the fake kremlin ngos. we are fighting against this nothing else and i believe that you will all support us nobody wants little green men and nobody wants radical islamism in europe. i'm not wrong, am i? i think i'm right. wait, just one more second. what i am saying, your honor, is that bulgaria is a single-nation, unitary state with one official language, and that is the bulgarian language, and that cannot be discussed or changed in any way by any resolution.
although you have met me several times today, i must tell you that no one has taken your word. i think it is very important that we in this parliament do not accuse anyone of taking the floor, but i have asked you to agree to a break. you have your word. i didn't take it from you.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i think the importance of this motion is very obvious to anybody who saw prime minister borisov and his meps bragging about the commission’s rule of law report last week, claiming that it vindicated his government’s progress. and sure why wouldn’t they do that when they’ve been getting away with it for years? playing the commission, telling you what you want to hear, pretending to comply and then doing whatever they like and laughing all the way to the bank. and why is it happening? we heard it from the epp – it’s because they are a pro-european party. so it doesn’t matter about the corruption. it doesn’t matter about the manipulation. angela merkel likes borisov, so he’s ok. donald tusk says he’s one of our men. you can’t even give speaking time to the one bulgarian opposition member in your group because you’re afraid of what he’ll say. but it won’t work because the bulgarian people are off their knees and they’ve had enough. night after night, including tonight, for over three months they’re on the streets. they’ve been beaten, threatened with water cannons, pepper-sprayed by the police, but their resolve is stronger. they’re demanding the resignation of borisov and new elections. i find it astounding that people come in here and they support elections in every country outside the eu and you don’t think that bulgarian citizens deserve the same. this motion encapsulates the demands of the protesters. it calls for the general prosecutor in the personage of ivan geshev, which has been described as neither politically nor legally binding, to be dealt with, it condemns the abuse of eu funds, the staggering revelations of the prime minister conniving with former prosecutors to tell judges what to do, the bullying of judges, the suppression of the media, and on and on it goes! but, do you know what? the bulgarian citizens will deal with their government. i’m very confident of that. they’re not asking us to do that. but they do need us to stop feeding the vampires who are sucking the life blood out of the wonderful people and country. pauperising your people, driving your young people away! fundamental rights are just that – they’re fundamental, and the people of bulgaria deserve them just as much as anyone else.
madam president, setting a 55% net target for 2030 is climate change denial. the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has said that in the gap between 1.5 and 2 degrees, hundreds of millions of lives are at stake. a target of 55% would mean the eu has given up on any chance of limiting global temperature rises to 1.5 degrees. to avoid climate breakdown, we have to cut world emissions at least in half by 2030, and get to zero by 2050. but this is a global average target. given their greater responsibility for historic emissions, the better—off nations – like in europe – must do it a lot faster. setting a climate neutrality target for 2050 is also a climate change denial. climate neutrality is not a decarbonising strategy. why are we continuing to prop up the fossil fuel industry? we need real zero carbon emissions by 2040 and we cannot rely on negative emissions technologies that might never even exist. scientists say that we will fail if we keep growing the economy at the same rate. gdp may speak for the welfare of capitalism but not for the welfare of humanity.
i have to say, madam president, environment, economy, jobs: the path to climate neutrality offers us a great opportunity to use european know-how to deliver innovation to global markets. with a 55% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030, we are putting people and businesses in extreme difficulty. we must take them on board, see climate action as an opportunity, and approach it with a positive spirit. this optimism includes openness to technology. but if we now ban combustion engines, we are building europe's future for the synthetic age. positive innovation means looking beyond the borders of europe. but today, those who say that we cannot combine climate investments with development aid are sinning against the future of africa, and are partly responsible for economic migration. the positive view of climate protection is one of market economy, not prohibitions and quotas. i'm not sure. instead, emission allowances in accordance with the paris agreement; the rest is the economy and its workers. i know, colleagues from s&d, renew europe, greens/efa and gue/ngl: positive and free thinking is not your world. they trust themselves more than they trust people and businesses. they claim, against better knowledge, that only 60 or 70% of the world will not end. you're not going to argue anymore? you want to intimidate them by painting the end of the world on the wall? no, ladies and gentlemen, no intimidation or fear. arguing and taking away that's democracy in action, even in climate protection. that is what the epp stands for.
madam president, the climate law is the main reason why my somewhat reluctant move into politics was actually the right move. our vote here this evening is a culmination of calls for action from citizens across the globe who recognise the emergency we are in. we have to slash greenhouse gas emissions within a timeframe that gives us some hope of avoiding a total wipe—out of life on our planet. we must set a truly ambitious target that will create the change we need by 2030. the implementation of the paris agreement is essential to achieving the sustainable development goals by 2030. no paris, no sdgs. we must have official, international, legally—binding commitments that see every single decision we make as individuals and as nations benchmarked against the goal of climate neutrality. our survival depends upon this. (applause)
mr president, mr sanchez amor, one thing we know to be absolutely true is that if valdis dombrovskis had been in mr borrell's place, this trip would certainly not have taken place. mr borrell and we all know very well that the united nations has issued a devastating report on the attacks on human rights in venezuela. we also know that the deadline for investigating the crimes committed by the regime is being extended; the united nations general assembly decided that yesterday. but i had breakfast this morning with a video from venezuelan television where you see the european union ambassador, isabel brillante, meeting with the regime's prosecutor, tarek william saab, handing him a human rights counter-report from the venezuelan regime. but the serious matter and what my colleagues need to know is that tarek william saab is being denounced by the european union, he is suffering from the sanctions of the european union. my question is: what is the ambassador of the european union doing sitting with this character? what are the charges against mr saab, amongst others? throwing an opposition councillor out the window. question: what is this ambassador doing sitting there?
mr president, mr borrell, the reality is stubborn. after the various attempts at dialogue - by the holy see, the dominican republic and norway in barbados - i do not know what made you think that a new dialogue could be fruitful. as expected, the mission you devised has met with another failure, which has not left the eu in a good place or contributed to the democratic cause. and since i see that you need a road map for venezuela, and our colleagues in the house are asking us to do so, let me offer briefly, albeit modestly, the following principles or ideas. first, insist on the holding of democratic elections, preferably presidential elections. secondly, to avoid initiatives that contribute to the fragmentation of the opposition. thirdly, to return to the path of pressure and to avoid cheating. the european union must extend sanctions to political leaders and also to the more than forty perpetrators of crimes mentioned expressis verbis in the resolution, in the report of the human rights council. fourthly, intensify the talks with the lima group and try to reach out to other major players. the international contact group is clearly not enough. i would like to know, mr borrell, what your views are on this and also what concrete initiatives you will take to restore freedom and respect for human rights in venezuela. will you do some self-criticism today?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs montserrat has taken the floor. you said it yourself: a string of lies and half-truths doesn't make a truth, apply the tale. what you and others have done is just that: a string of lies and half-truths. you have organized a baseless scandal, simply to stir up trouble and i fear to fight the spanish government. but this is not the carrera de san jerónimo, this is not the spanish parliament. if you want to discuss spanish politics, do it in madrid. i am no longer the foreign minister in mr sanchez's government. (different reactions) and you have been president of the european parliament and should keep your composure. (different reactions) mr president, may i continue? can i continue without having to suffer interruptions from mr. tajani? thank you very much. and all that stuff you guys have been saying about being semi-underground. look, clandestinity, like some attributes of the physiology of the human body, is or is not: it's clandestine or it's not clandestine. you cannot say that this is a secret or half-clandestine mission, when i have explained to you that we have gone through the international contact group, where we have clearly said that we would continue to contact all the political actors at the necessary levels, and everyone agreed. and i have informed the foreign ministers council that we will continue to contact by all necessary and appropriate means all political actors. what's with the sacrament? why all this confusion about secrets and plots because you wanted to make a gesture to the spanish government to get off? but, mrs montserrat, all of this is ridiculous, frankly. what are you guys complaining about? what do you find critical about doing the diplomatic mission that we are supposed to do and have been doing for months simply because, instead of doing it by phone, we do it in person? let's see: the elections in belarus have not been free, transparent or participatory. i mean, really? and yet the opposition in belarus has participated in them. do you think that the participation of the opposition in belarus has whitewashed the regime of mr lukashenko? do you believe that this participation has served to legitimize mr lukashenko's regime? of course not, not at all, on the contrary. it is precisely this participation that has served as a lever to expose the fraud of these elections and to combat it. but what is mr. maduro's regime getting whitewashed for sending an official to talk to everyone in venezuela? please, a little seriousness. what's he whitening in? what's your legitimacy? when we have been saying and continue to say what we think about the regime of mr. maduro. we're doing what we're supposed to do. what have i not informed the european parliament of beforehand? of course not. i'm not going to. i have no obligation or need to do so. my constituency is the foreign affairs council, it's the international contact group. and, well, what i needed was someone to tell me that i had no contact with the opposition to transfer to the regime of mr. maduro his conditions. oh, is it? well, all right, look: a document with five concrete points was provided to me by the opposition to make it reach the regime of mr. maduro and wait for his response. yes, i have tried to see if there was any possibility, certainly a small one, of whether it was possible, certainly unlikely, that the positions of the government, the regime of mr maduro and the opposition could be brought closer together. and you say to me: would you send someone to belarus to try to approximate positions? yes, of course i do. of course i did. if we could send someone to belarus tomorrow to try to create a national political dialogue, of course we would; we have offered it. but what world do they live in? but what world do they live in? the president of the european council has called or tried to call mr lukashenko. he didn't get it, but if he'd gotten on the phone, i would have talked to him. is that whitewashing? is that legitimizing him? what do you guys really care about? do you care about the fate of the venezuelan people? i am not saying no, neither am i, and i am not taking lessons on how i should conduct the task of the high representative in this particular case. i did what i had to do and i would do it again. we have not succeeded. but i think it was necessary. i think it was necessary to try to find a way of approach, which is the only way out of the situation in venezuela, and to encourage and foster political dialogue, and there has been political dialogue, because there have been representatives of the opposition who have been talking to the regime: mr. capriles, without going any further, who has made public statements saying "if the conditions were given, i would participate". if the conditions were given, but the conditions are not going to fall from the sky, they are not going to arise by spontaneous generation, they have to be worked on, they have to be discussed. what do you think the norwegian government has been doing, which has been fully aware of what we have done and has supported us? what do you think the norwegian government has been doing? well, to promote this dialogue, also without success, but basically what we have tried to do is the same thing that the government of norway has done, and will continue to try to do and we will continue to try to do, because we do not support military solutions, because we do not support military interventions abroad to solve this problem, because the only solution is precisely dialogue and the pact between the political forces of venezuela. and that, if we can make it happen, we will. and that's what i've been doing, and i've done it with full knowledge of the g4 group, with whom i've had several video conferences this summer. now it's gonna turn out that i haven't been talking to them? and i did it with full awareness that this was going to be exploited by those who are more interested in stirring up political waters than in finding a solution to the problem of venezuela, and knowing, also, that i would also receive criticism from those who say that we did not want to participate, once again, in the electoral process. no, we couldn't participate. no, mrs. pereira, we were not able to participate. because, to participate - i insist - there is a regulated process, which involves an electoral exploration mission, which returns with a report and says whether or not the conditions are met, and, if they are met - and it would be up to me to judge this - a process is set in motion that those who work in the field of electoral observation know is long and complex, which cannot be done in less than four or five months. and that is what i said in a letter to the government of venezuela before sending this mission: that you should know that we must first see whether certain conditions are met, which are not met today, and that we would then need five months to be able to participate. the response has been what it is, and unfortunately i fear that this will continue to push venezuela into an even more difficult situation, a situation of deinstitutionalization. the national assembly is now a democratically elected assembly. it's the only institution that is. you say presidential elections. yes, well, but we are now talking about the legislative elections, which are fixed in time, because that assembly comes to the end of its term and a new one must be elected. do you think it's wrong that we're trying to discuss how these elections can be held? what did we commit to? what have we given up? what have we bleached? what have we legitimized? absolutely not at all. mr lopez, i understand that if i were in your shoes and had a child in the spanish embassy, i would have an emotional burden that would surely make me say the same thing you have said, but please do not say that it is a secret mission. secret missions are not communicated by letter to all member states. don't say we went to whitewash mr. maduro's regime. you know my opinion of that regime. you know that your son was received at the spanish embassy when i was foreign minister and that i am very proud to have been able to contribute something to that. my commitment to democracy in venezuela does not have to be validated by you; it is proven by the facts, and what we have done now does not deny it. it's a risky endeavor, you know. it's a questionable effort. you are criticizing it much more than it deserves, and on the other hand also, to try to find a solution and help the opposition to feel stronger and supported by the international community and the european union when talking to the government. unfortunately, we have not succeeded, if the government of venezuela, the regime of mr. maduro, had told me, before i sent the mission, "it is not worth coming because i do not plan to change the election date, because the constitution forbids me", as they are saying now, then yes, certainly, we would not have gone. what's the point? but that wasn't so clear, that wasn't so clear, in all the discussions that we've had directly, through the opposition, that wasn't so clear. there was a small glimmer of hope. there was a small possibility, and i felt compelled to explore it, to try to see if there was something that could be done to push this political dialogue that, in the end, will one day be the only solution for the people of venezuela. and, believe me, your contribution to this case has been pitiful.
i declare this debate closed and no further speeches will be allowed. representatives, i'm sure you can hear what i'm saying. now, we're going to move on to the next thing.
i would ask you to calm down and stop speaking. we've already turned off your microphone. now, on to the next thing. this conversation is over.
statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in iran (2020/2811 ((rsp)) is attached to the agenda. i repeat what has been said many times here, that during this part-session there will be no so-called 'catch-the-eye' speeches, which can be granted on request, and no blue-card questions.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, the situation in iran deserves a debate which, in view of the above, promises to be interesting. i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament for its continued commitment to the situation in iran, including its concern for human rights...
i'm sure you can move outside the courtroom for private discussions with representative bütikofer.
(referring to mr canas’s remarks off mic) madam president, i’m asking him to try to insult me in a language that i understand.
i wish i understood that, too. but now we are going to continue the discussion on iran and we are going to give the floor to the high representative. i'm sure that anyone who wants to continue the venezuela conversation can do so outside the chamber.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i was saying that i thank the european parliament for its ongoing concern about the situation in iran, including the recent worrying human—rights related developments. iran is in the middle of a difficult period. covid-19 is affecting the country severely with more than 3 000 new infections every day, half a million to-date, and at least 27 000 deaths. the covid crisis is further deepening iran’s existing economic difficulties. following the joint comprehensive plan of action, the so-called jcpoa, iran had the legitimate expectation that this nuclear deal will result in more concrete economic benefits. yet, after the regrettable us departure from the agreement and the reinstatement of severe sanctions, the overall economic figures speak for themselves. the international monetary fund is predicting a 10% drop in gdp this year; 8.5% last year. unemployment is at 16%. the iranian rial has lost almost half its value towards the us dollar. trade with the european union has decreased. in addition, iran is experiencing shortages of important humanitarian items, like personal protective equipment and medicine that could help in fighting covid. there is a severe shortage of all capacities to fight covid. as the european union, we were quick to provide humanitarian support with an air bridge and we keep strongly advocating, together with the un secretary-general, that sanctions must not impede humanitarian trade. together with european union member states, we also keep looking at ways to encourage more legitimate trade between the eu and iran – including through the eu-iran trading mechanism (instex) – but we need to do more. these difficulties have also had a political impact in iran. not least at the parliamentary election earlier this year. we have seen a strengthening of those opposed to the nuclear deal, who are distrustful of the west and who do not support diplomacy and engagement. together with our european and international partners, we are working hard to make sure that diplomacy with iran continues to be possible. we have also witnessed several deeply concerning human—rights developments recently. this includes the treatment of nasrin sotoudeh and the many other political prisoners who remain in prison, whose health is at risk and should be released on humanitarian grounds, but at the very least have prompt access to medical assistance if they require it. we also condemn publicly the execution of the iranian wrestler, navid afkari, and call on the iranian authorities to investigate allegations that he was tortured in detention. we underline to all our partners and not just iran, that the perpetrators of such acts must be held accountable. we continue to engage the iranian authorities on their distressing practice of arbitrarily detaining european union—iranian dual nationals. we acknowledge the temporary release of french citizen fariba adelkhah. no individual should be used as a pawn, and i want once again urge the iranian authorities to cease this policy. mr president, honourable members, let me finish with some remarks on the nuclear agreement. i want to be clear, as coordinator – because the high representative acts as coordinator of the jcpoa – i will continue to do everything possible to ensure the preservation and full implementation of the nuclear deal by all parties. why is this so important? because it is in our very own european security interest, and because the agreement continues to deliver. without the nuclear deal, iran could have developed a nuclear weapon by now, with all the security implications for the region and beyond. of course, i am very concerned about iran’s reduced implementation of its jcpoa nuclear commitments, following the us withdrawal from the agreement two years ago. i do believe that full implementation of the nuclear deal by iran and other parties remain crucial to our efforts to preserve it. however, we should not forget that even though the amount of nuclear material iran possesses today is more than it had two years ago, it is still far less than the 10 tonnes of enriched uranium that iran possessed before the agreement. we know that this is thanks to the jcpoa. iran is the most monitored country in the world by the international atomic energy agency, with now almost 400 inspections per year. if we were to lose the agreement, we would lose such critical information about their nuclear programme. during recent weeks, a great amount of attention has been devoted to attempts by united states to bring back the united nations iran sanctions, and here i want to be very clear also. once more: bringing back these sanctions would have meant the end of the jcpoa. thirteen members of the security council – thirteen, including all european members – rejected this approach and underlined the importance of keeping the agreement in place. in this way supporting my understanding that the us are no longer part of the jcpoa because they freely decided to withdraw from it. they were also very clear that after leaving the agreement in 2018, the united states was not in a position to initiate the so—called ‘snapback process’ of bringing back united nations sanctions under the un security council resolution 2231. as jcpoa coordinator, i just want to reiterate that all sanctions-lifting commitments under the agreement remain in place. i want to reiterate that all sanctions-lifting commitments under the agreement, remain in place. i will personally continue to remain engaged on all of these issues, knowing that you are being criticized both parts when you take this stance, and i count on the strong backing of this parliament and the council to promote a holistic approach to iran, that takes into account different facets of our bilateral relationship. engagement with iran on all these issues remains in the european union’s vital and strategic interest and that’s why we are approaching the issue the way we do.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, thank you mr high representative for your statement. i would like to echo your justified words on the urgent need to ensure the preservation and the implementation of the jcpoa by all parties. this multilateral agreement, as we have underlined many times in this european parliament, is a crucial achievement of european diplomacy. it remains a key pillar of the global non—proliferation architecture, contributing to regional security and stability and it addresses iran’s nuclear programme in a comprehensive manner. colleagues, in 2018 the foreign affairs committee visited iran and saudi arabia. we had very interesting talks in riyadh and tehran and our key message was consistently a de—escalation in the region is a must. today, more than two years later, this is more needed than ever before and that’s why, dear high representative, i would like to underline what you announced as regards the snapback mechanism. all parties involved should do their utmost to preserve the jcpoa and to refrain from any action that could be perceived as an escalation in this current situation. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear mr high representative, jcpoa is an unmatched diplomatic achievement of the european union, but it seems to be an even bigger challenge to maintain it. the european union has committed itself to its survival and full implementation. as some would add, the deal is still alive but could be in a better health condition. hopefully, the united states will soon enough return to deal and towards the restoration of multilateralism in general, and iran will also uphold its commitments as stated in the treaty. our support to the nuclear deal, however, does not mean that we should be shy calling out iran for its role in conflicts in syria and yemen, its action in the strait of hormuz and attacks on us troops in iraq. we are most definitely not indifferent towards the situation of human rights in iran, which is appalling. a sakharov prize awardee nasrin sotoudeh recently was on hunger strike, and the latest case of execution of navid afkari deserves our strongest condemnation. a number of dual eu-iranian citizens are still unjustly detained in iran. we support the eeas iran task force and its balanced comprehensive approach, but today we have to make it clear that if iran wants continued european union engagement, it needs to dramatically improve its human rights record. (applause)
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, 11 days from now, on 18 october, the united nations arms embargo will expire and 11 days from now china and russia will be very eager to sell strategic weapons to iran. the iranian foreign minister has welcomed it, and 11 days from now, like the islamic revolutionary guard corps has said, a new phase in military cooperation between iran and the world will commence. and since the iranian options are limited, and their cash flow is limited, and their foreign currencies are limited, they might very well offer, as a quid pro quo, naval bases or air bases to russian or chinese military in the middle east, and this is of course all bad news, very bad news, for anyone living in israel, in lebanon, in yemen, but also in the european union. debates, however, seem to be concentrating on whoever gets the ticket in the white house. i admit, most rivals are dependent on who makes the decisions in the beginning of next year in washington, but right now in the next couple of months, we have an expiring weapons embargo and there is no movement from the usa to be expected, which creates a daunting challenge, i must say, to try to restrain and limit arms sales to iran, and here lies a task for europe. and i was very pleased to learn that a while ago that european efforts to restrain, to limit, or at least to delay arms sales to iran within the p5+1 framework were underway. any alternative means to find a solution is welcome because beijing will sell its arms. but it’s been quiet ever since, and therefore i ask for some assurance. are we still on the same page? are talks with europe, with beijing and moscow ongoing? can you assure me that we are doing everything that we can to restrain? is there still hope to limit arms sales? as coordinator for the jcpoa, which we fully support, and also as a diplomatic success from the european union, i would ask you in the next 11 days and beyond to do your utmost best. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, iran’s covid 19 cases are at an all-time high at the moment. the pandemic has hit hard at a time when the country’s economy was at its lowest point, partly due to the sanctions imposed by the us, which have harmed iranians’ access to essential medicines. when it comes to the situation on human rights we want to reiterate our call to release all human rights defenders in prison and who have been sentenced, and call for the unconditional release of all eu-iranian dual nationals, which is a growing concern in that parliament. but the joint comprehensive plan of action (jpcoa) is still the central element of our capacity to influence both the nuclear development and human rights situation in the country. we would like to welcome the conclusions of the meeting of the joint commission on 1 september and support the high representative’s efforts to ensure that the agreement is preserved and fully implemented by all sides. as the eeas has recently done in a statement, i would like to remind everyone that the non-participating member of the jcpoa, the us, cannot initiate the process to re-impose sanctions under united nations security council resolution 2231. the jcpoa framework is today the framework that avoids further escalation and that is why this parliament and the european union should firmly stand behind it. (applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. when we talk about the situation in iran today, we will probably start with the many victims of covid-19 and why the eu is not providing sufficient support as it does for other countries that are most affected. once again, the people of this country are being left alone, as was the case with the us withdrawal from one of the most important international treaties of our time, the jcpoa. there were never any serious consequences. nor was it instex, when trump broke international law and imposed extraterritorial sanctions that have dramatically impacted the lives of every single iranian man and woman. it's the story of the west's grandiose failure and the disappointment of all those in iran who want to open up and change their country. if you are now complaining that the hardliners are regaining their dominance and human rights are being trampled on in iran more than ever, then that is half-hearted. for me it is a personal defeat i want to say this that nasrin sotudeh has been imprisoned again for years because she embodies the hopes of many people in iran and also my ideals. the doors to iran are closing and we are waiting. what's that? the us election? we have a responsibility to act and to support the forces of peace and democracy in iran with determination. we just have to do more.
madam president, i thought the high representative gave a very balanced statement on the situation in iran containing the good, the bad and the ugly, and how particularly the economic situation is impacting on the poor unfortunate citizens of iran. as my colleague david mcallister pointed out, the jcpoa was a triumph for european diplomacy and particularly also for three powerful women who helped negotiate it. again, we express our disappointment that the us administration unilaterally withdrew from the agreement in may 2018, and heightened tensions further with the assassination of iranian general soleimani. the nuclear deal is a key pillar of regional border security and the eu has made a great effort in keeping the pact alive, despite us pressure, and we deserve credit for it. we must remain clear and unwavering in our commitment to non-violence and continue to de-escalate tensions in the region. as has been pointed out, since the united states has already withdrawn from the international agreement curbing iran’s nuclear ambitions, it can’t now use its former membership of the pact to try and impose a permanent arms embargo on iran. we must do everything we can to ensure that sanction-lifting continues while the conditions are met, and with 400 inspections per year, that’s pretty clear.
madam president, high representative borell, colleagues! on the very broad subject of the situation in iran, there is much to be said. iran is in many ways in a crisis right now with, as colleagues have mentioned, a terrible situation with regard to covid-19. but it's also a country plagued by poverty, rampant corruption, climate change. and to that we have a human rights situation which leaves much to be desired. the eu has condemned, and needs to continue to condemn, the suffering of prisoners of conscience in the country. i think of nasrin sotoudeh, who fought so hard for human rights in her commitment as a lawyer, and who is now on hunger strike, pointing out the appalling conditions she and many like her face when fighting for their people and human rights. we must also continue to condemn the executions that are taking place. the world was tormented to watch the execution of the athlete navid afkari. it hurts to see people's lives taken from them. iran is one of the countries with the worst statistics in this area. the un points to serious shortcomings. if the eu is to succeed in achieving a stable security situation vis-à-vis iran, ensuring that the nuclear agreement continues to be respected, building a transatlantic link with the us, standing up for human rights, then a great commitment is required from the european commission and the council, and i assume that high representative borell stands for this.
madam president, mr borrell, the aggressive oppression of the people of iran by the regime is presently the worst it’s been in over 30 years, and, as ms beer said, the regime is waging war on its people and we have to stand steadfastly on their side to protect them, to help them and to make the world know, and make the european public know, what is going on. at the same time, we’re talking about the jcpoa, and we try to hold on to that – and we should. but we are holding on to a political ruin. even if president biden were to be elected in november, there is scarcely a chance that the us would return to the jcpoa, if we are honest with ourselves. the jcpoa was a european initiative. we are proud of that, but that pride should be translated into a new european initiative. i think there is a new dynamic in the region, particularly with some of the deals that have already been mentioned today. the european union should start – you should start, mr borrell – an initiative for a regional conference for stability and peace, and of course we need the us on board, we need the russians on board and the chinese and all the powers in the region. but we should not just look back, deploring what went wrong, but look forward, finding new initiatives.
madam president, the economic disaster in iran started long before covid-19 and american sanctions. actually, massive protests were because of the misuse of funds after de-freezing by banks following the signing of the jcpoa. we have to find a way to keep the arms embargo on the regime that is responsible for financing terrorism, crushing protests in the country so brutally and downing civilian airplanes.
madam president, not extending the sanctions against iran at the un security council was certainly welcome. but mr borrell, you said that the eu has learned lessons from recent developments and that the eu must take a more independent position. are you prepared to act out upon these lessons? due to the us unilateral sanctions, the eu as a member and coordinator of the jcpoa has not complied with its own obligations under the jcpoa. you are tasked with overseeing the implementation of the eu law, including the blocking statute council regulation (ec) no 2271/96. what have you done in practice to protect legitimate trade with iran? under the blocking statute, eu countries are not allowed to abide by us extraterritorial sanctions. but our failure to stand against the lawless behaviour of the us makes us complicit in punishing millions of iranians and abusing their human rights. when is the eu going to find the courage to abide by international law and say ‘no’ to us bullying? when will you, mr borrell, say ‘no’ to us imperialism?
madam president, first and foremost, may i say i am very disappointed that in the context of the report that has just been published and that we are debating that we again go for a big ideological debate around consolidated corporate tax and other inclusions in a report that was wholly unnecessary. the capital markets union is critically important. it needs to be brought forward as urgently as possible, but if we want to unlock council and other obstacles, the idea that we would bring everything into a report that is clearly unnecessary in the context of the capital markets union is very disingenuous, to be quite truthful. i’m disappointed that we consistently raise issues that are not relevant to the capital markets union and, in particular, paragraph 22 of the report. but beyond that, it is urgent that we have the capital markets union. we have to untap the potential of our small and medium-sized sector post-covid. we need to ensure there is stimulus and growth in the economies and access to credit – access to other forms of capital are more critically important than the traditional banking sector because our banks are impaired and are not involved in traditional lending as they would have been into the real economy. so the capital markets union is urgent, but please desist from undermining what is a good report by including things in it that are not necessary.
madam president, first and foremost, two trillion us dollars – that’s what was exposed in the context of the recent fincen files. the fact of the matter is that it’s sophisticated, it’s complex and it’s massive, and it’s on a global scale. the idea that national supervisors alone, or regulators or enforcers, can deal with this particular challenge simply is delusional from that context, we have to insist that we have closer cooperation, that we have proper international enforcement and that we do say what we need in terms of insisting that there are prosecutions. hsbc, jp morgan, barclays, deutsche bank, standard chartered, they’re not tinpot banks. they are massive banks that underpin the financial system across the globe, and yet they’re named in these files. we have oligarchs, we have drug dealers, we have terrorists, we have all forms of everything going through these banking systems, and yet nothing happens. we have consistently, in this chamber, highlighted this particular fact, but until such time as there is proper enforcement and, more importantly, underpinning of enforcement with resources, because these, as i said, are very sophisticated and complex, from that point of view, i think that the european union, the united states and other countries have to come together on an international level to ensure that we can root out this. we can go to any capital in europe and see quite clearly that there is dirty money washing around very close to the regulatory systems.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are debating the future of the cap in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, at a time when european agriculture and european farmers have ensured food security for 500 million european consumers. in return, they expect us to provide them with the conditions for a much better functioning of the market than they have had so far. my political group has reservations about the high level of spending on environmental and climate objectives, but the polish delegation will vote for this level, because it is a solution that benefits smaller farms, and these are the vast majority in our country. the ecr group, in its work on the reform of the cap, sought to exclude small farms from eligibility for payments up to eur 2000. that is why we have tabled the amendment no 283 together with the epp and we hope to get support for it across political divides. we are convinced that excluding these farms from the eligibility criteria will not jeopardise environmental ambitions and will be an important step towards simplifying the cap, which european agriculture expects. in conclusion, particularly in the current turbulent times for the cap, with brexit first and the coronavirus pandemic second, we believe that a coordinated approach is needed to maintain sustainable agriculture and food security in the union, and the reformed cap will serve this purpose.
mr president, we’ve worked on the cap file for over a year. adrian in my office has done over 700 hours on it; and we get a minute to talk about it. we were trying to make an influence on the decision-making that affects a lot of the items: we wanted to help protect family farms; we wanted to help farmers to move away from pesticides and chemicals; we wanted farmers to be sustainable and to produce cleaner food; we wanted to protect biodiversity; we wanted the cap money to go to the farmers that needed it most, and to stop the 80% going to the 20% that don’t need it. but backroom deals were done between the three big groups; epp, renewal and the s&ds. lots of nice talk about farm to fork, biodiversity strategy, the green deal - but they’ve all been thrown to the wind. this is not democracy. democracy isn’t about majority voting. democracy is about giving the people a say. this is not the cap that the people want. and speaking of democracy - if we turn to bolivia at the weekend - i’d like to ask the meps who supported the right wing coup, to consider apologising to the families who lost loved ones during the year of the coup.
mr president, whoever decided to call this the common agricultural policy (cap) ‘reform’ might like to check a dictionary. ‘reform’ would mean improving the current cap and aligning the future cap package with the european green deal. this cap should be transformative. it’s not. this cap is regressive. the recent european court of auditors report clearly concluded that declining biodiversity on farmland is a major threat to both the environment and to farming itself. rules and rewards shape behaviour and practice. cap must continue to provide vital support to farmers. but that support needs to be both fair and targeted into a transition into improving farming methods that help to stop, not speed up, runaway progression towards mass extinction.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. police violence in the eu: the issue is far-right and racist chat groups, swastikas, hitler salutes, calls for violence and use of violence with deadly consequences. in recent months alone, a number of such cases have become known in several european countries. no, our officers are not under general suspicion, but the cases show that there are problems. and it's our police that needs the trust and respect of the people. that's why we need independent studies of police extremism everywhere. we need external reporting centres for victims and police, including one-to-one counselling and regular evaluation and consistent follow-up of reported cases. racism and extremism are a threat to our democracy and must therefore be combated in all areas of our society.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to start by expressing my sympathy for the widow, mrs chovancova, and her little girl, because it’s quite horrible that she was forced to publish the video of the violent death of her husband. as to excessive police violence, incidents will always occur but what sets apart democratic rule of law from dictatorships, for example, is that there is a follow—up, that there is no impunity for excessive police violence. here there is a big question mark over this case. the question is why was there no investigation? why did we have to wait for the video to be published before the belgian authorities started to move? and when are we actually going to get responses to these questions? this is not just a belgian matter or a slovak matter, because it concerns a slovak citizen. it is very much a european matter because if one national system doesn’t function then the whole chain is broken. in the context of police and justice cooperation, we have to be able to rely on each other and to trust each other, and here there is clearly an issue and we need answers. that is also why the democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights monitoring group is taking up the issue and this week we’re going to have a hearing. we will also be hearing ms de bolle, who is the head of europol, but also the head of police in belgium at the time. finally, with regard to the broader issue of excess of police violence and racism, which has also been addressed by the commissioner, i would like to repeat the call for a european police code of ethics, but also, i think, for training because in this case we are still waiting for the answers and the motives behind what happened, but i think many police people will also confirm that there are lots of police people who are just not adequately equipped for this kind of situation. so i hope we get answers because it’s in the european interest.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, we talk about european values, but this is europe. spain – asked to investigate and sanction the abusive use of force by police against catalan protesters, instead they decorate them for their magnificent work. france – where the police are supposed to protect and serve, kill and maim citizens with golf-ball-sized rubber bullets. bulgaria – where police systematically target and harass the roma population and stand—by while neo-nazis target them and the lgbt community; facilitating ever increasing homophobic assaults, resulting in incidents like in the city of plovdiv, where 30 to 40 neo-nazis in open daylight publicly organised a purge of the park. and then graffiti against the organisers who tried to protest. no public outcry, no investigation. no sanction by the police. and croatia last week, where the police were involved in one of the most staggering episodes of violent torture committed against refugees and migrants. stripped, beaten, robbed of their money. their belongings burned. children raped with the branch of a tree. (the speaker holds up a banner)is this the european values committed by our police. it is an outrage!
madam president, here in ireland we’re entering six weeks of level 5 restrictions, the highest level of restrictions that we have. it’s a difficult time for so many in the midst of this global health crisis. we’ve already seen substantial job losses, particularly in the aviation industry, but also in retail, hospitality and tourism. we’ve seen this crisis have a huge impact on young people, on older people, on carers, and on everyone’s mental health. many people have had to transition, particularly the young – those in education – from learning in schools and universities to listening to online studies at one point or even now during the pandemic. but we can’t let this crisis go to waste. we need to ramp up public investment and we need to help ensure people’s livelihoods are protected and fund a transition towards a fairer and greener socio-economic model in recovery. we cannot respond to the crisis by returning to business as usual.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, women’s rights are human rights, indeed. it is critical that foreign policy, security and defence, peacebuilding, reconciliation and justice are viewed as domains where women’s contributions are central. these areas can never again be seen solely through a male lens. this report is yet another critical step and must be implemented. women have always been affected by war and peace, as confidants, as victims and as the hidden advisors behind the men at the table: wives, daughters, sisters, soldiers and simply those experiencing the frontline. whether we are speaking about the women in rwanda, whether we are talking about kurdish women, or indeed the women of northern ireland who came together to say ‘enough’, and who contributed hugely to, and guided, the peace process towards the good friday agreement. foreign policy more and more – increasingly, but not enough – is guided by strong, brave and ambitious women. it is a statement of fact that women need to be involved, as strongly endorsed by the un 20 years ago next week with the adoption of the security council resolution. i am very proud that ireland’s recent campaign for membership of the security council placed the advancement of the ideals in the resolution on women, peace and security at its core, recognising that building lasting peace is not possible without building a more equal and inclusive society. that’s what this report is about. let’s make sure that gender equality applies in these arenas with a critical mass of women. let us take advantage of women’s unique perspective and ensure the barriers that continue to keep women excluded from political decision-making fora are urgently removed. let’s act together here in the eu institutions to ensure that.
madam president, covid-19 has been and continues to be a stress test for democracies, the resilience of national safeguards and, importantly, the rule of law. covid-19 impacts on fundamental rights of citizens and democracy. a crisis such as the scale of this pandemic brings unprecedented challenges in every area, including the rule of law. we must – as politicians, as governments, as ngos – be extremely alert and willing to interrupt and challenge any violations of these across the eu. a pandemic such as this impacts disproportionately and differentially on women, on gender issues, on minorities and immigrants and those on the margins of society. women and girls are disproportionately at risk during this pandemic as, during lockdowns, they can be exposed to abusers for long periods of time with no availability of social or institutional support. the risk of child sexual exploitation has, sadly, further increased as have the opportunities for online harassment and disinformation. undoubtedly, this crisis has brought about the best in many countries, including here in the eu. we’ve seen good leadership, but strongman politics and authoritarianism can take hold. further restrictive measures must always be accompanied by proper information, education and widespread consultation. democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, are at the core of our societies. they cannot and should not be jeopardised by this pandemic.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, greetings from dublin, and first and foremost, may i just take the opportunity to wish commissioner mcguinness success in her new appointment. it’s the first opportunity to formally congratulate you in a plenary session, so i wish you well. the response to the economic crisis caused by the global pandemic needs to be multifaceted. it needs to embrace both public and private national governments and the european institutions. and the european union has responded quickly and generously to provide support to the broader economies, including a temporary state aid framework, the european central bank’s pandemic emergency purchase programme, and the european investment bank’s eur 200 billion support plan for small and medium-sized enterprises. aside, of course, from the injections of public money, it is important that the market as well contributes to the recovery, and the amendments to the markets in financial instruments directive were timely, and the parliament did react quickly and in a spirit of cooperation to ensure these amendments could take effect as soon as possible. these amendments will provide investors with greater flexibility and will also ease some of the burdensome requirements, thereby freeing up resources and allowing investors to contribute to the recapitalisation of our small and medium-size enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy. i suppose i am disappointed i did put down some amendments, commissioner, to this particular report around the issue of dual listing of companies on different stock exchanges – so, for example, irish companies dual listed in dublin and in the uk – and certainly it is regrettable that they weren’t taken on board. i know that the european securities and markets authority did bring forward partial solutions, but that does not resolve the issue around irish companies listed in dublin and in the uk in euros. so i would really urge the commission to look at that. and i know that brexit is a word that, you know, is very sensitive at the moment because we around the final negotiations, but i do believe that we can’t let any inhibitants to capital and liquidity and access to same, and if this issue is not addressed around dual listing of companies, well then it could tie up a huge amount of capital that is required by irish companies. also, commissioner, the pandemic shows the urgency around the capital markets union. we all need to ensure that there’s no inhibitants or blocks to access to finance, and the covid pandemic has brought forward a certain element of urgency in us responding to the needs of the broader economy out there. but when we return to some form of normality, we have to insist that the capital markets union is a vibrant market, that it ensures that there is access to finance and also that there is accessibility to trading: in other words, people can invest knowing that there’s certainty and they can trade. so i would urge that we do not relax, that we stay in tune, and we ensure that the capital market union is a priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is an example of the power and impact of eu law. the eu law, and at the same time the law of the eu member states, is being given a new tool to improve consumer rights. consumer organisations and independent authorities are given the right to represent and defend consumers' rights in court. this is particularly important where the case involves a large group of consumers, but not necessarily a group of consumers so large in terms of financial resources that many would be prepared to take the case to court on their own. there's power in a team! this directive was created in response to a real need. the volkswagen emissions fraud left many of the autonomies in a position where compensation should have been claimed directly from the volkswagen group. volkswagen wasn't even the only car manufacturer to tamper with car emissions. the eu's message is clear: the trampling of consumer rights is not acceptable and if there are no means to intervene, they will be created if necessary. i think this is just the beginning. the group action will also enable victims of forced labour or trafficking in human beings, for example, to assert their rights as a group against a company that has committed human rights violations. that's something we'll have to figure out in the future. i am very pleased to have had the opportunity to participate in the legislative process from start to finish. the legislation was drafted in good faith. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr geoffroy didier, and all my colleagues in this house, in the commission and in the council. i urge everyone to vote in favour of this progressive legislation.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you again for the debate we had this morning and for your support from the outset of this initiative. once formally adopted and implemented, the representative action directive will offer strong protection to european consumers. it will significantly improve the practical implementation of consumer protection rules across europe and could pave the way for further initiatives to improve access to justice in other areas. with this directive, we are sending a clear signal to european citizens: the european union protects their interests, including their rights as consumers and access to justice. the directive creates a procedural mechanism of collective redress. it needs to respect the principle of procedural autonomy of the member states, and their legal traditions. the objective was to allow the new mechanisms to be integrated as smoothly as possible in their national rules of civil procedure. on the other hand, the directive harmonises key aspects of the procedure ensuring a common denominator across the eu, in terms of both rights and safeguards. on the level of harmonisation, i would add that with this directive the commission always had the objective of preserving well-functioning national systems which can have different forms of collective redress. member states can maintain existing systems and introduce new ones. the directive introduces a specific model of representative actions where qualified entities can seek injunctive and redress measures. member states that already have representative actions have the choice to transpose this mechanism separately from the existing mechanism or to modify existing mechanisms to match the directive's requirements. when modifying existing mechanisms member states have to introduce the missing elements, especially new elements that relate to cross-border actions. importantly, the mutual recognition of qualified entities from other member states should ensure for the purpose of cross-border actions under the conditions listed in the directive that this builds on the model already introduced by the injunctions directive. other features of the directive concerning, for example, the funding of actions or limitation periods may also require some amendments in member states. however, the directive is not overly prescriptive. it provides the main elements of a general procedural framework but leaves the details to the national system in order to make the mechanism workable in practice. it is therefore likely that member states will only have to make a minimum of changes to their existing systems, and of course the commission will assist member states throughout the transposition process, notably with dedicated workshops. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking the european parliament once again for its commitment to this matter and for the debate we had this morning. i look forward to continuing our excellent cooperation on consumer protection issues, particularly in the implementation of the recent consumer agenda, which we had the opportunity to discuss last night. in addition, as i mentioned yesterday, we will also continue our actions to change business behaviour through the sustainable governance initiative that the commission will present next year.
the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under rules 67 and 68 of our rules of procedure. the proposed act is therefore deemed to be adopted. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. parliament should support all legislation that will strengthen consumer rights in the european union. they should also be implemented as soon as possible. it is the welfare of our citizens that demands it, because they are all consumers. at present, consumers can only join forces to fight for their rights in some eu member states, and this is virtually impossible when more than one country is involved. the new rules on collective redress would give consumers the right to challenge collective redress in all member states, but would also provide safeguards to prevent abuse of this procedure. particular attention should be paid to ensuring that the new provisions allow for collective redress in cases of infringements in areas such as data protection, financial services, travel and tourism, energy, telecommunications, environment and health, air and rail passenger rights, in addition to the general consumer laws. most importantly, collective redress should be possible in all eu countries, allowing consumer organisations to represent citizens with the right to claim compensation for the damage caused. this is important because the same rules should apply to consumers in the same way in all member states. the new directive will then make sense and fulfil its protective function in relation to every consumer, regardless of his place of residence, the purchases he makes or the services he purchases.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs clare daly, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union annual report 2018 and 2019 (2019/2199(ini)) (a90226/2020). i would like to remind members that, as usual, in view of the coronavirus pandemic and the special measures we have had to take, there will be no spontaneous remarks in any of the debates of this session and no blue cards can be accepted. in addition, as recently, calls from parliament's liaison offices in the various member states have been made available to enable more members to take part in the debate, also by means of written messages.
rapporteur. – mr president, in moving this report, i’d like to acknowledge the huge interest in it. we had over 600 complex and often contradictory amendments, so it hasn’t been an easy process. i’d like especially to thank my own magnificent team, megan, lide and eadaoin. i’d like to thank the secretariat of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and the staff in all of the political groups for their patience and professionalism. there’s no doubt about it. the charter is an important document which contains rights which, if implemented, would allow all citizens to achieve their full potential and lead a dignified life. but we have to be honest about it: we’re a million miles away from that situation. awareness of the charter is low, there’s a total lack of integration in economic and political priorities, and even worse, in a whole number of member states, fundamental rights are being attacked and undermined. so this report was an opportunity to step back, look at what’s going on and ask ourselves why. i’m very glad that we managed to hold on to a strong economic and social rights section at the start because, while fundamental rights are absolute in theory, if you don’t have a stable roof over your head or access to education or healthcare, well then you can only dream about having your rights protected. i’m glad that the report acknowledges the impact on inequality of cuts in public expenditure, but i’m sorry we couldn’t call it by its right name: austerity. i’m glad about the points about sexual and reproductive rights, about the pushbacks and the criminalisation of humanitarian action. but while acknowledging that, i deeply regret the weakness in this report because of our failure to come together and call out abuses and name countries – a shyness which is not replicated when we talk about countries outside of the eu. we have the absurdity now of a fundamental rights report where we’re not allowed to mention a country, not even in the body of the text, not even in a footnote if it comes from the council of europe and it has the name of a country in its title. colleagues, this is utter madness. george orwell said, ‘if liberty means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they do not want to hear’. it is obvious that there are people in here who do not want to hear about catalonia, and i am not surprised because it is an indictment on the spanish state and the eu. but it’s a good example of the problem with this report because, instead of calling it out, as the council of europe has, we have a fundamental rights report that deals with freedom of expression, where the explanatory statement has been expunged for having the audacity to mention the fact that there are parliamentarians in prison with sentences of over 10 years for organising a democratic plebiscite. i’m sorry now but, if that doesn’t equal what the report condemns as the use of a judicial system for political purposes to silence an opposition, well i don’t know what does. but the big groups didn’t want that. they couldn’t handle the truth so, after the committee vote, nine months after the explanatory statement was published, this statement, which was never voted upon, had to be banned. and you know i feel a bit like the author of the joy of sex, a book that was banned in ireland and that no one had ever heard of until it was banned, and then everybody wanted it. so an explanatory statement that normally nobody ever cares about we’ve reproduced already as a booklet in english and in spanish, and it’s currently being translated into catalan. so thanks very much for that one. so fundamental rights should transcend self—interest and political game-playing. they should be the great equaliser, no matter who you are or what country you are. if we ignore that, it only leads us into a cul-de-sac of a fundamental rights report that deals with whistle-blowers and freedom of the press, but fails to mention julian assange and the dangerous precedent if the trump administration succeeds in its efforts to extradite him to the us and face 175 years in a high-security prison for journalism in the eu. the biggest press-freedom case of our generation and we are silent. i voted on this report going to plenary in the hope that sense would prevail and it would be improved here and issues like that put back. but if it’s not, i have no hesitation in voting against this report because it’s better that we would have no report than a weak or a hypocritical report. maybe then we face the truth that, for all our talk about fundamental rights, we have had people on the streets of bulgaria for months against a corrupt ruling party, fat on eu money. we have migrants left to rot and fester in camps, while boats of pregnant women and children are pushed out to sea by state forces in greece. we have migrants raped with the branches of trees by state forces in croatia. we have muslims hounded in france. and, yes, we have parliamentarians in prison in spain. so this is your europe, and the choice is clear. we either waffle on in generalities about fundamental rights or we have the charter implemented. ten years on, i’m very clear what side i’m on.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the members of parliament for the focus on strengthening fundamental rights, and the rapporteur ms daly for her work on this annual report. the commission will propose in december a strategy to strengthen the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights. over the past decade, the charter has led to a greater promotion and protection of people’s fundamental rights in the european union. it has triggered new legislation directly protecting and promoting certain key rights. however, as proven by recent developments, fundamental rights, democracy or the rule of law cannot be taken for granted. they require eu citizens and ourselves to constantly stand up for those principles. allow me to reflect on several issues raised by the report. first, on the importance of a comprehensive approach to combat discrimination, exclusion, prejudice or hate speech and hate crime. the commission has renewed its efforts to ensure the correct transposition of the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. the commitment to tackle serious manifestations of racism is one of the main pillars of the commission’s anti-racism action plan adopted on 18 september and we have to go further. by the end of the next year, the commission will take an initiative to extend the list of eu crimes under the eu treaty to all forms of hate crime and hate speech. this will give us a legal basis for legislative action. in parallel to strengthening our legal framework we need to fight stereotypes and bias and promote diversity and inclusion policies. one cannot succeed without the other. the plan for the actions that need to be taken by the commission and the member states are reflected in our strategic documents adopted since the commission took its mandate which were: gender equality strategy; lgbtiq strategy; the already mentioned eu anti-racism action plan; and on the reinforced eu roma inclusion strategic framework. and we are working on strengthening media freedom and pluralism as addressed during monday’s debate on the adamowicz report. the commission is currently finalising a european democracy action plan, which will focus on elections integrity, media freedom and media pluralism and tackling disinformation. when delivering on the democracy action plan we will explore the issue of strategic lawsuits against public participation and present in 2021 an initiative against abusive litigation targeting journalists and rights’ defenders. the commission is aware that civil society and rights’ defenders are facing pressures and obstacles in certain member states. ensuring an enabling a supportive environment for these actors is one of the focal points of our upcoming strategy to strengthen the application of the charter of fundamental rights in the eu. we welcome the increase in the budget of the rights and values programme in the multiannual financial framework, which will be useful in that regard. the commission shares your concerns about the protection of the most vulnerable people, such as children in poverty or people with no access to adequate housing. we will continue to support member states in their efforts. the forthcoming eu child guarantee and eu rights of the child strategy will address the special needs of the children in 2021. with regard to your concerns about the situation of migrants and the push-backs at some borders, i would like to underline that the charter applies to member states when they are implementing eu migration law. it is imperative that measures taken by border guards to protect the external borders are taken in respect of fundamental rights and international law, in particular, the principle of non-refoulement and the access to asylum procedures. it is necessary also to show solidarity to the member states on the eu’s external borders, whose concerns need to be heard and discussed. the new pact on migration and asylum presented on 23 september strengthens the protection of fundamental rights and ensures that any allegations of breaches are properly investigated. adherence to the principles is strongly reflected in our new action plan on integration and inclusion, which focuses on both migrants and eu citizens with a migrant background. it aims to ensure effective integration and inclusion as it is a social and economic investment that makes european societies more cohesive, resilient and more prosperous. last, but not least, i would like to underline that the commission is committed to upholding the rule of law in the union by all the means at its disposal. it is a precondition for the respect of fundamental rights. we fully agree with the european parliament with regard to the importance of strengthening the eu’s capacity to monitor the respect of the common values on which the eu is founded. on 30 september we presented the first annual rule of law report at the centre of the new comprehensive european rule of law mechanism. one of its objectives is to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation on the rule of law matters and to trigger an inclusive debate at european and national level. we are ready to organise further discussions with the european parliament on this report, including on individual country chapters.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion voted in may, the committee on constitutional affairs wanted to highlight the founding values of the european union: the respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law, which we have mentioned, is the cornerstone of the independence of the judiciary from politics, a principle which is sometimes at risk in some countries of the european union. i cannot help but recall how in 2018 ján kuciak, a slovak journalist, was murdered, and his murder caused a deep political crisis, culminating in the resignation of the prime minister. a few months earlier, daphne caruana galizia was murdered in malta, with the involvement of government circles, involvement which also led to the resignation of the prime minister. defending the rule of law also means defending the freedom of the press, anytime, anywhere. today, the health and economic crisis caused by covid-19 is putting european citizens to the test by threatening other fundamental rights, from health to work to freedom of enterprise. only if we start from our core values, leaving no one behind, will we be able to meet the task before us at this historic stage. we have seen how fragile the european union is. it is our responsibility to ensure that projects are quickly translated into action. families and businesses cannot wait any longer. i hope that, as in the case of the conference on the future of europe and the agreements with the united kingdom, the deadlock in europe will soon be overcome.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. – mr president, if there is a place in this house where we can see exactly the expectations of europeans, this is in the committee on petitions. this is the place where we receive more than 2000 petitions every year, and i have to say that europeans are pretty much aware of their rights, obligations and possibilities. and there is a document to which they refer fairly often and this is the european charter of fundamental rights. but, during my six years in the committee on petitions, i can barely remember only one or two petitioners who were aware that the european charter of fundamental rights is pretty much limited by article 51, which means that national governments have to follow the charter of fundamental rights only if they are implementing european law. if it comes to national issues this is not the case. it is very sad that again and again, we have to write to petitioners and say, look, we understand your problem, we see that something is wrong, but we can do nothing because of article 51 in the charter of fundamental rights. i believe that in this house, it is high time to start this debate and i know that several years ago, there was already a resolution in this house that we have to think about article 51, but it never happened, unfortunately. and i believe that this is not right. the second document to which they refer also a lot, is the european pillar of social rights, which was adopted exactly three years ago on 17 november 2017 and is still not implemented. we have to move forward, otherwise, if we do not meet the expectations of europeans, i do not predict a bright future for the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, first of all i would like to stress that the renew group has worked constructively on this report on fundamental rights, because defending them, defending the democratic rule of law, is at the heart of who we are as a group. we have worked tirelessly, as have the socialists and other members, to have a text acceptable for adoption. it was not easy, because the text was ideologically biased and, moreover, because, as the socialist member has said, things must be shown to the face and not tricked. we shall try to get a text that meets the house's requirements, with majorities, with firm reasons. the report adopted by the committee calls for constant monitoring of fundamental rights against abuses and discrimination in our societies by state or non-state authorities. to highlight the right to non-denigrating treatment of migrants who come to our territory, to look after the most vulnerable especially children, and the right to health of the most vulnerable women, because all the socially unfavourable conditions and stigmatization make them a prey for predators or discrimination, as, for example, in moria. we are not committed to discrimination against roma women, or to the chapter on freedom of expression, because hate speech is becoming a norm in our societies and polarizing in an undemocratic way, and there is a lot of masked populism and attacks on journalists. i am pleased to have included in this report the mention of the victims of terrorism - although there are some groups who want to eliminate it - its double victimization: the homage to terrorists for having been terrorists. and as the renew group, once again, we speak of the democratic rule of law and we are making our mark, because the populist pathologies of identity take away, they want to take away, the rights of europeans, also in sub-state entities, although they falsely appear as victims.
mr president, after you have repeatedly attacked the rapporteur personally, i would like to give her the floor for a personal statement.
rapporteur. – mr president, can i just thank the colleague who was an appointed shadow and, unlike the previous speakers, never once attended any of the meetings or had any input in this report at all. i was an elected member of the irish parliament for eight years. i was one of 11 people elected by the people of ireland to come here, and to compare me to a rapist because you don’t like my report is absolutely reprehensible. every reference in it is sourced and credited to an official report and, while we’re at it, can i say that the explanatory statement snuck nothing in. it was a matter of public record for nine months.
madam president, president von der leyen when you were referencing the eu-uk negotiations on brexit you said and i quote, ‘we will do all in our power to reach an agreement, we are ready to be creative, but we are not ready to put into question the integrity of the single market, the main safeguard of european prosperity and wealth’. equally, president von der leyen, i say to everybody, we must not put into question the integrity of the good friday agreement which is the main safeguard of ireland’s prosperity and peace. this is a rubicon which nobody can cross and we have to insist, regardless of what are the outcomes in terms of the brexit negotiations, we simply must have a border on the island of ireland that is open and unguarded, and this is a message i bring very strongly to everybody that’s involved in the final throes of these negotiations - those in the european union negotiating on our behalf here in ireland and those in the uk who are negotiating for the united kingdom. bearing in mind this good friday agreement is sacrosanct and is integral to peace on the island of ireland. with regard to the covid-19 vaccine, we need to show solidarity and i want to thank the european commission for securing all these vaccine doses. but it must be dispersed in a fair manner - no rich countries versus poor countries, rich people versus poor people. it must be distributed based on medical advice and vulnerability of the peoples of europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is clear that poland is under attack. it is under attack from within, from a government, a political party and from a belief that doesn’t respect fundamental values, including the rule of law and women’s rights. and let us remember, all over the world, women’s rights are human rights. a party that seeks to sabotage the very institutions that built a democratic poland, that sought to oppose guiding principles after the fall of communism, where once the solidarity movement took to the streets amidst a tidal wave of support for fundamental values. now a pitiful government cowers behind mr kaczyński as he tries to tear down the very essence of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. and yet, as the poet from my own country, seamus heaney, would say: the longed-for tidal wave of justice can rise up. and where the spirit of the solidarity movement rose up in the 1980s, so too does the spirit rise up again today, and it can be seen on the streets in cities across poland – warsaw, gdańsk, kraków, poznań and others. the great spirit of polish women can be seen on the streets again. from the country that gave the world women like marie-skłodowska curie, wisława szymborska and edith stein, once again, polish women are rising up and indeed inspiring the world and the autocrats and the strong-man politicians better watch out. to them i say give up your futile path. you may try, but your brand of politics will never win against a determined crowd of millions of women and men. and to the women of poland, know this: we in the european parliament support you, we salute you and we stand with you. poland: piekło kobiet – women’s hell, no more! (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i want to thank the commission for launching our first lgbti+ gender strategy. given the serious deterioration of lgbti+ rights in recent years, as the commissioner shared, it is important now more than ever that we focus and we work together on protecting our citizens. as an mep, i consistently advocate for the protection and promotion of good mental health and make sure that my work within parliament reflects this. the numerous references throughout this strategy to the importance of ensuring that our lgbti+ community have their mental health protected is deeply important to me. therefore, i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to colleagues in the house, and all eu institutions, to support an eu—wide ban on conversion therapy, a clearly destructive and disgusting practice which has horrifying, detrimental impacts on those who go through it. it has no place in europe. it violates the fundamental rights of our citizens. it destroys a sense of self and it must go. my second focus is on the importance of inclusion of lgbti families in the strategy. for me as a gay woman, being a european, i welcome the rainbow families. they already exist in europe, they have done so for generations, and we simply have failed to accommodate and advocate for them. this sets that right. picking up from what our president, the commission, and indeed commissioner dalli has said herself, a parent in one country is a parent in every country. we cannot pick and choose which families we protect. i am hopeful and i expect us to work together. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the european parliament, united and with great effort, has achieved remarkable improvements both in the 2021 budget of around eur 150 million and in the multiannual budget of over eur 16 billion. but the improvements we have achieved are far from the goals we had set and above all the needs of the times, because our countries, our societies are being tested by a severe second wave of the pandemic with a hundred thousand dead, because we have a very great recession and a dangerous increase in social inequalities with the first victims being the younger generation and the socially vulnerable. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we need a more ambitious budget to address public health problems and the impact of the pandemic, to have a stronger economic recovery, to strengthen the welfare state, to implement more ambitious targets on tackling the climate crisis and the digital transition. and that is why the european parliament must continue to be assertive, and i note with satisfaction that our main rapporteur, pierre larrouturou, in line with this line, said that he would opt for the abstention vote in the 2021 budget.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to express my pleasure at the adoption of the multiannual budget and the reconstruction plan. all member states should benefit from this. we are all very happy because there is indeed a large amount of money planned for the next seven years. i am surprised to hear that the major political groups in the european parliament are trying to make a play on this situation. they want these measures to be somehow dependent on the rule of law, which has been very precisely defined in the council conclusions. it would be good if the european commission took these conclusions for granted and tried to implement them. the european parliament and the individual member states should not debate this matter with the european council. i find this difficult to accept and i hope that we will work together on this and that we will be willing to use the eu money to make the european union... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, 2021 must be a year of recovery, a year of recovery and also a year of hope, a year where resilience is also reborn, and the 2021 budget will make a very important contribution to this objective: a budget with high added value. we should tell all europeans that the budget of the european union is only about 1% of gdp. it is a budget where more than 93% is for investment and, in member states such as my own, portugal, it accounts for more than 80% of public investment. a budget that helps competitiveness, productivity, environmental goals. a budget that also helps with inclusion. a budget which is therefore solidary from the internal point of view, but which also helps other countries and developing countries. a budget which has a humanitarian aid and external solidarity component which is also important. it is essential that, with this budget, now also having a recovery fund and with many billions of euros still to be implemented from the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, member states make good use of these resources. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter.
madam president, one of the things that covid has actually been able to do is to motivate the leaders to quickly reach an agreement on the european budget, of course, after the european parliament has done its job just in time, just in time to prepare its position. this, of course, is happening with the diligent work of the speakers, the negotiating team, of which i am proud and happy to be a part. we should thank the german presidency here for the efforts it has made to ensure that this budget is adopted on time and opens the door to the multiannual financial framework. the european budget is supranational, but it is very much local. i'll give you an example of my country, the country i know best. under cohesion policy alone, it can have around €1.5 billion and another €5 billion for rural development; this is a resource that helps these less developed regions to develop and catch up with the rest of europe. of course, i'm glad that such an agreement was reached in time, because in these difficult and difficult times people need to see politicians and institutions that work together, not those that argue. i therefore thank everyone for the agreement reached and i am pleased that from 1 january the european budget will be available to all beneficiaries, citizens and businesses in europe.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for this debate and the really strong support for next year's budget. i believe that with next year's budget embedded in the multiannual financial framework we now have a solid basis for the years ahead to help europe, european citizens and european businesses emerge stronger from this crisis, to be even more competitive in the future and to play a real role on a global scale. i can only thank you all for all your hard work; it has not been easy in the past few months. it was a typical european drama that a reasonable compromise was reached at the last minute - but quite expected - at all costs. the key now is implementation, implementation, implementation implementation! the financial framework is in place, but it is really important to take advantage of these opportunities! why do i say that? the commission has taken over 500 decisions in the last few months since march on state aid in the order of eur 3 000 billion, and we have so far only achieved utilization of these possibilities in the order of just over 15% in the individual member states. so what is crucial now is that the opportunities that have been and will be provided are also used appropriately in the member states so that we can actually see this rapid and strong recovery of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the european citizens' initiative - minority safepack (2020/2846 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
on behalf of the committee on culture and education. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there are 50 million people in the eu who belong to a minority. in addition to the 24 official languages, we have over 60 regional and minority languages. the members of these minorities are an integral part of europe's cultural diversity. i am one of those 50 million as a german shinto. the treatment of minorities is a yardstick for the freedom and democracy of our society. the best guarantee for the free development of minorities is the establishment of their rights. it is about the rights of eu citizens, it is about the free development of cultural rights and the protection of their language. but this protection is lacking in the eu, as there are no common eu minimum standards or a legal framework to ensure the protection and promotion of minorities. this is the situation that the minority safepack initiative and its more than one million supporters want to improve. the main points are facilitated access to cultural production and media in one's own language, the promotion of linguistic diversity and participation in cultural support programmes. last but not least, the decisive fight against statelessness is an important element which still exists as a phenomenon in europe and particularly affects people with a romani background. it is not acceptable that people are denied state protection and equal participation because of administrative harassment or racial prejudice. in addition, we are witnessing in the eu incidents of segregation, racism, hate speech and xenophobia against ethnic minorities. discrimination takes place in education, employment or access to the social system. in the coronavirus pandemic, this situation has worsened, with minorities being blamed for the spread of the virus. this dimension must also be taken into account when we talk about minority rights, because in a climate of fear and stigma, the unhindered exercise of cultural and civil rights is hardly conceivable. as representatives of european societies, we have a responsibility to stand up for the rights and equal participation of all people in the eu. i therefore hope that this important citizens' initiative will find broad support in this house. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 october i had the honour of co-chairing a parliamentary sitting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, together with the committee on petitions, in which we welcomed a citizens' initiative, which is a right under article 11 of the treaty on european union, precisely to promote citizen participation in the decision-making process at european level. this european parliament has no deficit of democratic legitimacy. it is the only directly elective institution of the union's architecture. he has no competition deficit. it is a parliament which is fully legislative, also in the field of fundamental rights, but it is a parliament which has difficulty - let us recognize it - in connecting with the citizens whom we represent, and so we have here an initiative which has managed to overcome all the difficulties faced by dozens of others who have tried to do so but have not succeeded in reaching this house. at least 70 citizens' initiatives have been launched, but here we have one - one that can be counted on the fingers of one hand - which has managed to gather no less than 1 300 000 signatures, not in seven member states - the fourth, says article 11 of the treaty on european union - but in eleven. and it does so in a matter which calls for action by the commission because it is consistent with european values, with the value of the protection of minorities, enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. and we have said many times that the european idea of democracy does not consist in or is limited to majority rule alone, but requires the protection of minorities in accordance with the rule of law. and here we have the protection of cultural and linguistic minorities, in line with the european charter for regional or minority languages, adopted by the council of europe, which aims to mandate the commission to adopt those measures, legal or regulatory acts, which are required to do so in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality, but above all, the prohibition of discrimination, which is a fundamental right enshrined in articles 21 and 22 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we therefore have a great opportunity to do this work, and i am happy to welcome this citizens' initiative, which makes sense, which certainly affects competencies that are those of the member states, but which can receive added value from the european decision-making process. and that is what i hope will happen from now on with an observatory, with a centre for the promotion of linguistic diversity, which will ensure that hate speech against linguistic minorities is banned and thus offer added value to the recognition of the status that linguistic diversity deserves in the european union.
on behalf of the committee on petitions. – madam president, according to the rules, the committee on petitions is automatically associated when a citizens’ initiative is published. why so? because our committee is a bridge between people and the european institutions. we receive individual petitions. we receive collective petitions, some of them signed by thousands or hundreds of thousands, but, of course, the european citizens’ initiative signed by one million people from many member states is in the first round, in the first column, of that bridge. and of course the minority safepack is a special column since it had to go over the bridge two times. first it was thrown out, then it had to go to the european court of justice and is now reaching the institutions. and the minority safepack discussion was very active and this initiative received the support of the majority of those participating in the hearings two months ago. therefore, commissioner, we are waiting for very concrete steps from your side. we want you to legislate just on behalf of the commission. we have no right to disappoint the 1.2 million people who signed this petition. and a few words about a particular group of signatories from my small state, latvia: not all of those who wanted to send a petition could do it, since among minorities one quarter are those stateless non-citizens who have no rights to sign, who have no rights to take part in any elections and are deprived of many rights. i am very happy that one of the nine items included in this initiative is approximating equality for stateless minorities like the roma. the solution for realising this proposal could be the following: the member state makes a declaration that a person who does not hold the nationality of any country, but who resides in that member state and holds a travel document issued by that member state is to be in possession of the same rights that eu law grants to eu citizens. when amending the visa regulations in 2006, by my proposal, just these eu residents defined by this formula were exempted from the visa requirements. but it was, to my regret, the only essential approximation of the rights of stateless citizens. now it is time to go further and to grant them the rights that eu citizens in all member states other than their own have – the right to vote in local and european elections, the right to work, etc. so, such a good approach can be initiated by the commission.
before i give the floor to commissioner hahn, i open today's voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated in the agenda. the voting session will be open from 18. 30 to 19. 45. the the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same method as in previous partsessions. for the report of the honourable member. adinolfi on the proposed appointment of marek opioła as a member of the court of auditors, the vote will be taken by secret ballot. members will be able to cast their votes in the usual way, but the ballot paper they receive for signature will not show how they voted but only the fact that they voted. all other votes will be by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i now declare the voting session open. you have up to 19. 45 to vote. the results of the votes will be announced tomorrow at 08. 45. the
the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the provisions of the regulation on the application of the rules on competition to undertakings in the air transport sector.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the european parliament for having organised, in these challenging covid—19 times, a successful public hearing on the european citizens’ initiative ‘minority safepack’ early in october. this allowed the organisers to present the initiative and the different members to express their views. today’s plenary debate provides another opportunity to listen carefully to the contributions and interventions from various members. this will further deepen our joint understanding of the different political considerations in support of the various proposals covered by these initiatives. today’s plenary debate on this initiative confirms that the european citizens’ initiative instrument offers a unique tool for citizens to engage in direct participatory democracy. maybe even more important, it demonstrates that it is an agenda—setting tool for policy shaping at union level. the minority safepack initiative is not the last initiative to have successfully collected the required one million signatures and to have been submitted to the commission for examination. in october, the commission received a sixth successful initiative called ‘end the cage age’. at this point in time i am not able to go into the details of the commission reply to the organisers of the minority safepack initiative. today, we will listen to you and i will carefully reflect on the resolution once adopted. the exchange of views today will inspire the ongoing reflection process of the commission. we will present our general conclusions, as well as the action that we intend to take, in a communication planned for january next year. in that respect i wish a further fruitful discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, europe is the sum of its cultures, its traditions and its history. i myself come from a country where up to five different official languages coexist, all of them languages of spain. if you see a problem in this rich variety, you do not understand what the european union is. with this citizens' initiative, parliament is making it its duty to protect those who are discriminated against for speaking a language or not speaking it; it is making it its duty to reject those who use languages as an instrument of confrontation and hatred; it says that the promotion of regional languages must always be done with respect for the fundamental rights of all people. today, in europe, there are those who use a language, a culture, not to educate, but to imagine sectarian and exclusive communities. this is how the virus of nationalism manifests itself, which has brought so much misery to our continent. i am proud to belong to a country that protects its linguistic wealth through the constitution. with this resolution, we celebrate the cultural diversity of our continent and commit ourselves to its protection. let us not let nationalists take away our success as europeans.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i too would like to compliment the citizens who championed this initiative. it’s always difficult to get to this stage, but not only did they have the normal battle, they also had to go to the european court of justice in order to be heard because the commission declared that their petition was not valid. so i salute them and i salute the coordinator of the resolution who, i have to say, i thought did a better job on the initial resolution than the one we have before us here today. i am heartened to hear the strong comments by colleagues, because it’s not good enough just to talk about statelessness. we need to back the call in the initiative – and the original wording did that – that we need to amend eu legislation to guarantee equal treatment of stateless persons and citizens across the union. without this, stateless roma in europe and eu candidate countries, really without a nationality, have no access to areas like education, health care, employment and so on. we need to resource the fact that endangered languages need to be kept alive. they need to be funded, planned, and we need positive discrimination in that. so i really hope that the commission hears the loud voice of this parliament, but more important, the voice of the citizens who got us here.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it's great to see how our hard work to build commitment to the european railways is finally starting to bear fruit. the fact that we are now proclaiming 2021 the year of the european railway is a sign of that. let that year be a catalyst for a renaissance of the train in europe, as we take strong action to remove bottlenecks in the railway system, as we make it easier to book international train journeys, as we establish more night lines across the continent and as we strengthen rather than weaken rail passenger rights. the train must become the backbone of the european transport network. let's make 2021 the starting point to achieve just that!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the year of rail transport will of course promote rail as a sustainable, innovative and safe mode of transport that can guarantee essential services even in unexpected crises. this has been confirmed by the strategic role of rail transport for connectivity during the pandemic we are experiencing. along with road transport, and i would even say more, the transport of both people and basic goods, which is even more important than the transport of goods, because here it was necessary to save human lives, was crucial at the beginning of the crisis and here the railway helped a lot. the cross-border strategy needs to be improved, of course, by paying attention to intermodal connectivity in south-east europe. the tent network is not yet developed in the member states or the candidate countries. i can mention here a topic that has been in the public eye quite a bit lately, and that is the reluctance of the deep state in skopje to finally build the so-called corridor number 8, which would connect the black sea and the adriatic sea through sofia, through skopje, through tirana; kosovo, of course, would be connected and that would help a lot to this whole southern flank of the european union. that has to be changed, reverend. new strategic routes should also be added to this road linking several balkan capitals. then the small regions will become progressive, is the time over, mr. chairman? okay, what you need to know is that the railroad is the future and it needs a lot of investment.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i really would like to thank anna deparnay-grunenberg, our rapporteur. i have to say her enthusiasm and inclusiveness stands as a role model to all of us. she and her team have been truly fantastic. but i think this file has been popular across all of the political groups, because there is an understanding of the potential of rail to seriously have an impact on the disruption of the flow of carbon into the atmosphere and to be a real positive contributor towards our task in dealing with climate change. but we have to be honest: there’s a contradiction often between our words and our actions. if we truly are going to have a year of rail and support rail, then we have to examine the fact that we are presently subsidising, for example, regional airports, some of which are unprofitable, operated by low cost carriers and are amongst the biggest carbon emitters in europe. we have to be honest that many member states are dismantling their rail network with the closure of regional stations and the isolation of remote areas that put people back on the roads and into individual vehicles. this can’t go on. rail is the way forward, but it needs to be backed up by investment and action, not just words.
mr president, i very much welcome this debate and particularly the issue around the transition regulation, which will give certainty to farmers in these very challenging times. what we need to do now is to ensure that, over the next two years, while we’re going through this transitional arrangement, we use creativity and imagination to ensure that the next common agricultural policy (cap) proposals give farmers the opportunity to farm in a way that is compatible with the environment and, equally, that they have a future in family farms across europe. we have to look at some form of flexibility and a performance—related model. we can’t straitjacket our farmers across the entire continent to one system. so i would urge the commission, the parliament and the council, in trilogue, to ensure that we have flexibility and creativity, that farmers will be allowed to farm for generations to come, and that we support young farmers transitioning into agriculture. we need to ensure that we have environmental ambitions that are compatible with farmers and farming compatible with environmental ambitions. so, commissioner, i urge us to use this transition period to ensure that we set farming into the future compatible with the environment and ensuring that we have a strong agricultural base for years to come to support our family farms.
madam president, i come here first of all to share the anger expressed by our colleague peter liese earlier when he spoke out against the avalanche of untruths, half-truths and outright lies about the new vaccine, which is a moment of hope at the end of the year when all other indicators are in the red. well, that's good news. secondly, i believe that we must remain true to our principles of solidarity and that we must also remain committed to the imperatives of multilateralism, which has been put to the test over the last four years. it is time for europe to show its willingness to share this new acquisition against the virus with developing countries. i would like to end by replying to those who say that europe would be, in this respect, destined to squander its money in the four corners of the world with a quote from louis michel, former development commissioner: "if you don't do it out of solidarity, at least do it out of self-interest", because everything we invest in access to vaccines for developing countries is also in our own interest.
madam president, i remember in june, when we were discussing the external dimension of covid-19 in this house for the first time, many colleagues emphasised this virus knows no borders, and we have heard similar statements today. and indeed, this is still valid today, and it is in particular valid for the eu’s strategy on the covid-19 vaccination. this pandemic constitutes a challenge around the world. consequently, it has to be tackled globally and by international cooperation. most crucial is that we follow a systematic and coordinated global approach that focuses on international cooperation with like-minded partners to ensure universal and timely access to a vaccine and also focuses on solidarity with the most vulnerable countries to facilitate access to vaccines in a fair manner for all people across the world. the covid-19 pandemic is a wake-up call for the need for a strong and more united eu foreign security policy. it is high time for us as the european union to promote more decisively our values and our interests worldwide. our covid-19 vaccination strategy will be an important component on the way to this goal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe will only be safe when the world is safe. let that be the point where the european commission - i think - is failing today and not being ambitious enough. recent studies have shown that two-thirds of the world's population will not have access to a vaccine by 2022. that is, frankly, unacceptable. we must not depend on a profit model of a few pharmaceutical companies and give the drugs every opportunity to ensure that there is more production. because that's the problem, of course. covax is good, but not enough. what we need is more production. so i only have one message today. commissioner, please ensure that you and the whole commission look with an open mind at the question of the waiver from the various countries of the world and ensure that we start negotiations to see under what conditions such a waiver should make it possible for everyone in the world to have access to the vaccines next year.
madam president, the covid-19 pandemic has put us to the test, but at the same time it has also reminded us of what the european union really means. it means the strength that comes from solidarity, it means the strength of "together". the vaccine that will save millions of lives is the best proof of cooperation between member states and european institutions, and its distribution will be the best proof of what the european union does for each citizen. now more than ever, europeans need to have confidence in the construction of a common future. therefore, i suggested additional measures to secure vaccine doses to combat and prevent criminal activity and, together with my colleagues, i called for a joint communication plan. it is essential that correct and complete information on vaccines reaches every european citizen. it is our responsibility to address legitimate concerns from the outset, because we need every citizen, alongside the european union, to rebuild together.
madam president, dear commissioner, we welcome the positive news that the first covid vaccine might be approved earlier than expected, just in a few days. that’s really great. europe has been one of the first and most hit regions in the world by covid-19. now that a functioning vaccine might be at hand, the whole world is looking at europe to look at the level of transparency, accuracy and fairness that we will be able to apply during this very sensitive phase of distributing the vaccine. we are entering a new phase in the health crisis. however, there is no doubt that we are still in a health crisis, that we really need solutions urgently. we can be proud that the process to authorise the vaccine has been in record time, but without any compromising on the safety of the vaccine. the decision will be taken off the back of rigorous scientific process with adequate and sufficient data, to ensure that patients will have access to vaccines which are safe, effective and of good quality. but now we need to guarantee sufficient transparency as well in the next step to come, to ensure full confidence that the eu citizens are protected as a whole.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the end of the debate, when it is actually clear that next year 50% of vaccines will be reserved for only 14% of the population - mostly in the developed countries - the question arises how can we use the global trade regime to ensure the supply for all people. so three questions you can answer with a very clear yes or no: firstly, will the eu, the commission and the council give up the hard no to a discussion in the wto on a relaxation of patent protection, a waiver, for 100 developing countries? secondly, will the commission, will the council, if there is an application for compulsory licences, if it becomes necessary to allow compulsory licences, will they support it in order to really start production? logically, this is not always the case, but it can be. will the backup be there? and the last question: will the commission and the council make it compulsory for companies with which they already have contracts to sponsor production in developing countries - such as astrazeneca - also with other companies, so that production can also take place there?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, minister, thank you all for your interventions. let me start with the three areas where i think we all agree before addressing some of the specific points raised. first, we all agree that the arrival of the covid—19 vaccines does not mean that the pandemic is over. i think this is a strong message that should come out of this debate. we also agree on the importance of the three golden principles that we set out some time ago, namely equal access, affordability and safety of vaccines. and finally, we do agree on something that is particularly important these days, that in europe we do not improvise on safety. nor do we cut corners on the procedures that we have established, and the european model is that independent regulatory authorities have to do their job and politicians have to base their authorisation on sound, scientific evidence. i think the strong support that all of you have shown through this process says a lot. let me now address three specific issues where some of you have raised the need for further explanations from the commission. let me start first with the issue of confidentiality. we fully recognise the importance of transparency in this process. transparency is a guiding principle in all our work in the commission. it is publicly known with which companies we have been negotiating, what type of vaccines and the process through which we have been doing this together with our member states, but it should be clear that we are indeed bound by the confidentiality clauses in these contracts. disclosure of any confidential information at this moment in time could undermine the ongoing negotiations we have with other companies, and, as the european union, we would need to keep as strong a negotiating position as possible. we cannot unilaterally decide to disclose confidential information such as information on prices under these contracts unless the companies themselves agree to it, and we are in the middle of negotiations which are still ongoing. however, on many occasions commissioner kyriakides has confirmed to you in this house that the commission is ready within the contractual constraints and according to the rules for transmission of confidential information to the european parliament to make information from these contracts available to nominated members of this parliament with specific arrangements once the sensitive ongoing negotiations are concluded. another issue that has been raised by many of you is the issue of trips and intellectual property protections. i want to repeat in this house that we will ensure that intellectual property rights are not an obstacle to the universal access to vaccines, including in developing countries that do not have the means to cope. mr lange asked for a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer, but i think my answer is pretty clear – that there is an ongoing discussion now in the wto on the idea of a waiver of intellectual property rights and protections and there are also important flexibilities so that the relevant trade agreement – trips – could allow us to reach the same objective. but, in any case, i want to assure everybody here that we are ready to continue this discussion so that nothing stands in the way and that more vaccines get to where they’re needed worldwide. finally, some of you have raised the issue of campaigns. of course, we are very sensitive and we shall encourage our member states to continue with their national plans and public information campaigns on vaccination. we will have our own european campaign, if you like, which will be unveiled in the days to come. we do not compete with our member states on information, but i think we can provide a useful complement to this process. and to that extent we will not only explain factually the benefits of the vaccines that are put on the market, but we would also like to mobilise important role models, important known europeans. some uefa players have already kindly accepted our invitation to participate in our european campaigns, so stay tuned for that. the rollout of the vaccines is a challenge of historic dimensions. this is a historic moment, and after all the work we’ve been doing for months, i am convinced that we’ll get it right.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate here today in the european parliament has shown the range of all the arguments: one is not doing well enough, the others are already warning about the possible consequences even though the vaccine has not yet been approved. yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a risky situation, and if every headache medicine has side effects, it is not impossible that this vaccine will have side effects. no one's saying it's side effect-free, either. we've invested a lot of money to shorten the typically long years it takes to get a vaccine approved, to research it, we've spent many billions to get people the protection they desperately need. no one in the council, no one in the commission, no one in his right mind is going to stand here and say that there is any solution that promises a 100% guarantee. i am rather astonished that some members - especially in this section - are standing here and arrogantly talking about the different strategies of the member states, although nationalists and populists in particular have repeatedly given the impression that this is a flu, a cold that passes away immediately, that we do not have to take this seriously, that wearing a mask is superfluous. all these demonstrations, where people's lives were put at risk, where police officers were attacked, there is also a political responsibility for this. i want to make that very clear. i can't just stand here and say, "yes, i have a 100% solution here". what we are doing now remains fraught with risk. my only request to you, mr president, is that we, as political leaders in national governments, in the commission and in parliament, should at least be able to have a fact-based, reason-based and fearless debate. outside of this room, there's enough fear already -- we're experiencing it in our own families. so we have a responsibility to provide security, as far as that goes in a democracy. of course, there are others who are faster. the russians and the chinese, they're vaccinating everywhere. yes, but these are vaccines, they're not even approved yet. i have seen it myself: a member of parliament has just mentioned it, and some media, but also some political forces, are playing with it. we're just taking our time. we have to make sure that even though the research on this vaccine has gone very, very fast, really revolutionary fast, that in the end the risks, including the side effects, are manageable, accountable. some members have made it clear, and for very, very good reasons, that it is not enough for us in the european union to look after ourselves alone. there must always be a strategy for how we can make a global contribution. but i have the impression that the european union - and there is still much to be done - has already done a lot. the follow-up to the covax facility involves concrete financial contributions, some eur 860 million having already been paid by the eu and the member states. of course, it will also be about creating the conditions so that, once again, access to this vaccine is not measured by how strong a country is economically, how much money its citizens have or where in the world they live. we must set a good example as the european union. i think i understood that message today, and i want to assure you once again that we as a council are also trying to live up to this responsibility. we have a long, long way to go, ladies and gentlemen. if the first vaccine is finally available for use, it is not a miracle weapon. but it's a very, very important signal to take people's worries away. because the economic and social consequences are, of course, devastating. but in the end, it's every person's safety that counts, and every day counts. every day that the vaccine is approved earlier can help to reduce the number of people who die. i am pleased to have heard this signal of health as a priority as a message from almost all speakers, so thank you very much. this debate has made an important contribution to highlighting the european union's responsibility in this serious health crisis. but we're not just talking, we're acting. this has been expressed in a very impressive way in the past weeks and months.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the importance, the importance and the power of the european union can be seen in these very days. without the joint action of the united eu states, the coronavirus vaccines would not be available for the germans or the french for a long time. especially for the slovaks. thanks to the eu, our citizens will be among the first to be protected, at the same time as germans, luxembourgers, swedes or czechs. since i am not indifferent to people with weakened immunity and many other diseases, i will definitely get vaccinated.
in writing. mr president, the corona pandemic has tested the european union's ability to act and its basic principles. the crisis has a lot to teach us for the future. however, the commission has managed to act relatively well in the corona crisis in those areas where it has the power of decision and the scope for action. the most obvious example of this is the vaccines under consideration. the european union has made it possible to invest heavily in vaccine research and to conclude joint vaccine procurement agreements in a short time. neither of these could have been achieved by any member state alone, especially on such a timetable. it would be desirable in future to see a greater appreciation not only of european cooperation but also of science and research. at the same time, i must say that i am disappointed by the coordination between member states, particularly in the area of travel restrictions. the coronavirus will be with us for a long time to come and it is vital that member states are able to act more coherently in the future to contain the pandemic. cooperation between member states is key to ensuring the most efficient and equitable distribution of vaccines and to responding to vaccine criticism. the commission's new openness to the health union and the larger eu4health programme will help to strengthen cooperation in tackling health threats. the corona is a global crisis, and we need not only eu action but global cooperation to respond to it. the european union must take responsibility for ensuring that vaccines are distributed even in the poorest countries. the commission is rightly committed to supporting the development of vaccines, medicines and diagnostics and equitable global access to vaccines. the covax vaccine mechanism, which promotes equal access to vaccines, has an important role to play and now needs the support of both the eu and the member states to make it possible.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the eu strategy for a security union ((2020/2791 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the european parliament liaison offices in the member states.
the president of the council. the commission is not our joint work to improve the security of our citizens and our societies is a constant test, and with the council conclusions on internal security and a european police partnership we have launched a necessary process of reflection to significantly improve the future of internal security, especially with regard to the european dimension. and we 've also accomplished a few things: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we have identified a number of priority areas, including instruments that have already been agreed but which need to be implemented more quickly and better, and of course also instruments where there are gaps and which need to be better addressed in the future. the recent terrorist attacks, ladies and gentlemen, have made it alarmingly clear that the online environment plays a very central role in providing a platform and a voice to violent extremism and terrorism. several ongoing and future initiatives are making a significant contribution to combating this development, such as the proposal on terrorist content online, which has just been the subject of a political agreement thanks to excellent cooperation between the european parliament and the council, and the recent proposal for a law on digital services. the attacks also highlighted the challenges facing law enforcement, judicial and security authorities in accessing digital information, especially when it is encrypted. we need to ensure that our law enforcement and judicial authorities have the same legal powers and competences online as offline. it is in the interest of all of us, honourable members, that the internet does not become a lawless space or a safe haven for criminals, and there is actually a very, very simple rule, honourable members, that we simply have to implement: what is illegal offline is and must be illegal online. of course, we must find a balance here, and we do not have a patented recipe for that either. this is also subject to democratic debate, especially with civil society and experts. this is the balance between security on the one hand and the fundamental rights to privacy on the other. and to do that we need a broad, inclusive and transparent dialogue between the various responsible bodies, and of course the european union has a very important role to play in this, given the crossborder nature of crime. and so the use of artificial intelligence, access to data, the use of big data in law enforcement and internal security are all relevant issues that we need to address very quickly. i would also like to emphasize once again our agencies, which play a very important role in this, in a forward-looking and responsible security agency which also supports the member states in their tasks. we need to see how we can ensure that all law enforcement officers have access to all the information they need, how we can make more of the wealth of information already available in our information systems, how we can work together more concretely and exchange information more efficiently across borders every day. now, one or two of you might say, "yeah, why do you talk like that? i wish we had done it a long time ago. i know! it is also, of course, largely because internal security is one of the core competences of the member states. and there are no automata. and of course, we have to be more proactive here. and we must also learn from the serious crimes, especially the terrible acts of terrorism, because we must of course recognize: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the implementation of all these measures, which i have just briefly mentioned, is part of the wider effort to contribute to the union's objective, enshrined in the treaties, of offering its citizens a common area of freedom, security and justice. this area without any internal borders, where the free movement of people is guaranteed - especially now in this severe pandemic - is the purpose of the schengen area. but the schengen area can only be preserved in a world shaken by crisis and terrorism if we improve security cooperation and put it on a new footing so that freedom and freedom of movement are guaranteed in a lasting way.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me tell you how delighted i am to be able to switch from one pillar of the european way of life, normally public health, to another – security. i welcome this resolution that we’re discussing today. the threats that we face today are many and varied, but they have something in common: they are fast moving, cross—border and cross—sectoral. most of them work across borders, across national borders, across the distinction between online and offline and across the divide of internal and external security. all this points to the very simple fact that we need a joined—up european approach to cope with this evolving landscape of threats, and this is exactly what we did last july when we presented our new eu security union strategy to be coherent and comprehensive, to break down the many barriers and many silos that stand in the way of the eu delivering security to citizens. this strategy is our ambition for the coordinated work for the next five years, and we want it to be understood as a single roof underneath which we can build an edifice with individual rooms, that are now being constructed. these range from combating terrorism and organised crime to preventing and detecting hybrid threats, increasing the resilience of our critical infrastructure, promoting cybersecurity and fostering research and innovation. so i can only therefore welcome the opportunity that you give us through this resolution to be able to discuss our work in these areas. before i go into the design and implementation of the single roof, let me tell you how important we consider the issue and the place of fundamental rights in security policy. this is the touchstone for all our work and is indispensable as our common purpose. i do not see fundamental rights, being in charge of the security union, as an accessory or something that we have to visit ex post. i think that the issue of fundamental rights is a precondition before contemplating any security measures and there are ways to compromise and conciliate these two objectives, which are not as antithetical as some people want to make us believe. let me now come to implementation. implementation of the new security union started immediately on the day of its adoption, with a presentation on the agenda for the fight against drugs and action against firearms, that was also in the previous commission. last week we took another major step forward – the eu agenda on counter—terrorism following the heinous attacks in france and in vienna. we want to strengthen the eu’s work to add value to member states’ responsibilities, to anticipate, prevent, protect from and respond to terrorists. it sets out very concrete actions to help us do precisely that and we have also accompanied this proposal with another one for a reinforced mandate for europol to be able to cope with these new types of threat. europol, as you know, functions as police cooperation. with our proposal for a new mandate they can do much more. let me also welcome the – i would say historic – agreement reached last week on the regulation on terrorist content online. this is something that we need, and it was long overdue. just three hours ago today, the commission announced the strengthening of our cybersecurity strategy, which is most and foremost about security. cybersecurity is not simply a consideration for a market, it’s not a consideration for businesses, it’s a consideration for society and the way we protect our people. the new cybersecurity strategy also includes two legislative proposals for the revision of our tools that need modernisation, like the network and information systems directive (nis), and the critical infrastructure, the physical infrastructure. both these proposals have been presented today. so there our idea is to reinforce and modernise anything that we can do to cope with cyber threats and cyber attacks. let me also highlight the importance of enforcement in all of this. for the first time, in the new nis directive, we have specifically introduced the possibility for fines to facilitate enforcement and make sure that everybody plays by the rules. last week, we also adopted a product which is very popular in this house – the progress report under the security union. this was the first progress report of this commission and it shows that a lot has been done to support member states in the past year. but we need to keep the momentum, and the citizens rightly expect not only pledges but also delivery. there is much discussion and debate on whether this community eu action in the area of security is something that makes the european union compete against our member states. i think the minister put it very right: we do not compete with anyone, we complement and produce added value to allow for the european union to dissipate, organise and respond to these security threats.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we have a strong set of security rules in place at eu level, but they are only good when they are effectively implemented. these were the words of commissioner schinas last week on the presentation of the progress report, and i think it’s the key message that we also need to put out here today. because he’s right: a lot of work has been done in the past years. we have worked on the eu’s information systems and their interoperability; we have worked on combating terrorism, on protecting borders, on combating child abuse. and yet we see here that the regulations and the directives are in place, but we still have to read – and this is so frustrating – that, for instance, when it comes to the implementation of the anti-terror directive, huge gaps are still there; that there are infringement procedures against 23 member states for not properly following the rules on tackling child abuse. this is, quite frankly, unacceptable, and we need to make sure that the eagerness with which we adopt rules is at least matched by the eagerness with which these rules are implemented, and that is a call on the member states. so i strongly support the commission’s approach on focusing relentlessly on implementation and enforcement. but next to implementation, additional efforts are absolutely needed. european citizens count on and expect us to deliver on security. we need to strengthen europol’s mandate to be better equipped for today’s security challenges. we need to have more and better information-sharing between member states. we need to have a better protection for societies against hybrid threats and foreign interference and disinformation, and we need to find a way to make sure that encryption continues to protect our privacy but no longer provides a shield for criminal behaviour. we must stand together against those who want to destroy our european way of life, and for that you can always count on the support of the epp group.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 july of this tremendous year 2020, the commission adopted its communication on the eu strategy for a security union, to which the council of interior ministers, meeting on monday 14 december, has contributed to better protect the security rights of european citizens. and i would like to stress that security is a right in itself, a fundamental right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in the same article as the fundamental right to liberty and on an equal footing with it. the commission's communication sets out four strategic priorities: the future, changing threats, terrorism and organised crime - of course! - and a safe ecosystem in which immediate or ongoing initiatives are envisaged: those relating to the prosecution of child sexual abuse, drugs and, of course, the trafficking of firearms. but this european parliament is having its say in this debate. in the committee i chair, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we have discussed this commission communication and have made our contribution, noting, of course, the commitment to fundamental rights and the founding values of the union, but also the need to support the fight against terrorism and the implementation and enforcement of existing legislation, because there is anti-terrorism legislation adopted by this european parliament. there is european criminal legislation: there is an anti-terrorism directive in force, from 2012; there is a directive, from 2011, against child sexual abuse and child pornography; and a directive, from 2012, for the protection of victims. but while underlining the importance of implementation and enforcement, it is important that we also bear in mind the need to strengthen our commitment to combating terrorism and organised crime, to combating child sexual abuse, to combating trafficking in human beings along dangerous migratory routes and, of course, to combating drugs. and there the commission has effectively committed itself to a new counter-terrorism agenda, a new anti-drugs agenda, a new cybersecurity agenda. and the committee i chair is committed to finishing the legislative work on the regulation on terrorist content online. but finally i would like to make a reference to the institutional dimension, because there are operational agencies which are subject to the scrutiny of this european parliament: europol, cepol (the agency for police training) and eurojust. i have just participated in the inaugural conference of the platform to combat the encryption used by organised crime: europol joint research centre decryption platform. and it is important that this whole constellation of agencies is used to the full along with prüm to strengthen police cooperation, in a european architecture that has to ensure the interoperability of data in the prosecution of crime and crossborder crime of european scope.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr minister of state, mr vice-president of the commission margarítis schinás, in the fight against crime and terrorism, citizens expect a strong europe. i'd like to focus on europol. we welcome the commission's proposals to strengthen the mandate of europol. the operational coordination of national police services to stop criminals and terrorists abusing borders is strategic. but with my group renew europe we are advocating more ambitious measures to make europol the real arm of the union in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, a true european fbi. we propose to increase europol's powers to collect police data and produce joint analyses between member states, to increase europol's own initiative role in cross-border investigations and to enable the surveillance of foreign fighters on european soil. i would also like to share, mr vice-president, a strong concern about the adequate financing of these measures. the european agencies involved in security - europol, but also frontex, cepol and easo, mentioned by president lópez aguilar - are given new tasks, but they have neither the budgets nor the staffing. let's be more consistent. ladies and gentlemen, we need a strong security policy against terrorism and organised crime to meet the expectations of our fellow europeans.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, this resolution highlights that terrorism aims to threaten democracy in europe and european values. a lot of our security concerns come from western destabilisation of countries outside our borders so, if we’re really worried about security, why do we keep supporting us imperialism and their endless wars? in 2019, israeli defence forces killed 133 palestinians, 28 of them children. why didn’t we stop the association agreement with israel? why don’t we stop member states from selling arms to saudi and uae, who are committing genocide in yemen? over 100 000 children have died in that war and we don’t even want to talk about it in here. why did we support the nato bombing and destruction of libya and the displacement of millions that came back to haunt us? the truth be told, the people of europe want security all right. they want the security of a home but, in 2018, the eu member states spent eur 78 billion on housing and over eur 200 billion on arms and defence. three times more. they want security of housing, affordable health care and education. if we want security, we should stop the militarisation of europe. and i also suggest that the eu comes out more strongly and condemns the war crimes of abiy ahmed in ethiopia or we’ll be looking at hundreds of thousands more wanting to cross the mediterranean.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, a dedicated council configuration is essential if we are to prioritise gender equality and of course we need to continue to mainstream the issue, and as commissioner dalli says, to have these ministerial discussions. we need greater political prioritisation and political powers to robustly and comprehensively tackle the challenges. we already have such fora in the parliament and the commission — it is crucial to have a counterpart in the council. top level political leadership across the member states is now essential on gender equality. the time for prevarication is over. women have waited too long. women can’t wait another 60 years and women and men of our younger generation cannot wait a further 60 years. issues of equality are often dealt with in the justice and home affairs council and, as a minister for justice, i worked in that council and gender equality rarely appears on the agenda due to the long list of priorities and competences that fall into the jha. to make sure that these priorities are driven forward, a dedicated council configuration is an imperative, i believe, allowing equality ministers to meet on an ongoing basis, facilitating the discussion, and adaptation of key initiatives and to invest time in that all-important best practice sharing, what the eu is known for and utilises as one of its great strengths. the question of gender equality has been at the heart of the covid-19 pandemic. domestic violence, childcare pressures, accessing health care — these issues have not been resolved but exacerbated by the current crisis. i would say we still have 60% to 70% of the decisions in politics, in business, in finance and in ai technology being taken by one gender. why? we need to act strongly. i ask the council and the portuguese presidency to take on board this request of the parliament, to take it seriously, to ensure that gender equality is at the heart of the european project and of the european institutions. let that mark and let that be the achievement of the portuguese presidency.
thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on this important issue. it is scandal and small an humanity that our share is in the millions of the huigiúraigh to be under ghlas i gcampaí géibhinn sa tsín. is léir chomh maith go bhfuil eagla rómhór roimh an tsín ar fhormhór mhuintir an domhain aon rud to dhéanamh faoi sin. is léir chomh maith go bhfuil eagla rómhór roimh an tsín ar fhormhór mhuintir an domhain aon rud to dhéanamh faoi sin? is there anything you can do about it? is there anything you can do about it? the chinese government has imposed strict laws on the use of chinese and han chinese culture, and the laws will be implemented in 2020. an even greater concern is that, however, there is still an international community that has stood up against it in china under sin, and in fact, under many other topics. more can laws and regulations of the chinese government, and is it any business to use them as a focal point, and not to do it in the rest of the world, what hope is there for millions of people and nations like christians and buddhists in the future? the european union must use its economic and financial power to build a bridge to china. maybe you've got the taste of the trade. i'm not sure what i should do, but i'm afraid that there's a lot of things that i'm not doing that i'm not willing to do on a moral basis, and i'm afraid that there are things that we should do that i'm not willing to do.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, these urgencies are the epitome of what you like to call disinformation. in the us— and nato—funded reports that are the basis for the uyghur resolution, there’s not one named person interviewed who says that there is forced labour in xinjiang, not to mention the completely fraudulent report by the american national endowment for democracy—funded chinese human rights defenders, which claimed there was a million uyghurs in detention. it’s just a weapon against china – the same with iran. this is the fourth human rights—centred attack on iran in just over a year. i’ll take these things seriously when we stop doing them selectively. where are the four resolutions addressing the european and us—supported genocide in yemen? america is separating children from their mothers, and keeping them in cages by the thousands and has over two million mostly coloured people in prison carrying out forced labour. france is passing anti—muslim legislation and still behaving like a colonialist in the sahel, while israel shoots children in palestine. but that’s all okay. when we stop weaponising human rights in this place, we might have a bit more credibility.
i have to say, madam president, thank you to vice-president šefčovič and thank you very much to michel barnier for still not leaving the negotiating table, despite our strolling through the british fog, whether the negotiations have been successfully concluded or are still ongoing, and stoically, with patience and perhaps also tactical skill, seeking a treaty that can at least create a solid and resilient basis for a future partnership with equal obligations and rights. but what does the sovereign in the 27 eu member states, what do the citizens actually expect from us, the co-legislators, in view of the situation that has now arisen? that we can just quickly scrap a thousand-page agreement with many details and give it the green light to enter into force - will it have been the right thing to negotiate? the expectations of fishermen and farmers, of those working in industry and services, of pensioners, of students and so many others are high. what's the final compromise? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. are there appropriate enforcement instruments? this is particularly true in relation to employment standards, social and environmental rights and governance arrangements. the eec was very clear on this, as were the environmental organizations and the farmers' organizations. the deal must be historic, just as we have made the preservation of peace in northern ireland with the united kingdom and the eu, the rights of citizens and the constructive development of economic cooperation with a view to shaping the future the benchmark of the european parliament's attitude in the brexit process in recent years. let 's face it . the loss of confidence and distrust in politics is enormous among citizens - here as on the island - beyond the concrete agreements and objectives, including trade policy. let's not damage democracy any more! let's take the time to check if there's anything to check.
madam president, i could start a sob story about my grandson, who i love dearly and who lives in the uk, but i won’t. let’s take the emotions out of the brexit story and be rational. the brits are leaving the eu but they’re not leaving europe. they will forever be our neighbours and, luckily, politicians can’t change that. wealthy neighbours are to be preferred over poor ones. a brexit deal is in the making; only two issues remain. the brits want to rule their own waves – that’s understandable – and then there is the issue of the level playing field and arbitrage. it is the duty of politicians to solve problems, instead of making them. let’s be creative and think about the least bad constructions: licences of fishery rights for european fishermen, financial compensation schemes or a brexit fund. use your imagination. make a deal – not an ambitious deal, but the best deal possible. jobs are at stake here. mr barnier and all eu leaders, eu citizens are counting on you.
madam president, i come to this podium with a lot of uncertainty and some certainty. we don't know if it could or couldn't be. we do not know whether, after centuries of fishing in uk waters, our boats will stop fishing there at the inexplicable whim of an irresponsible politician. because yes, that is what brexit was: an irresponsibility, compounded by the inability to reach a reasonable exit agreement so far, mainly on fisheries. and if that is the case, and we do not reach an agreement, the european fleet will have to look for other waters in which to continue fishing. and the british will have to look for other markets, while the whole world will wonder why this nonsense. the position of the european parliament and the council is clear. it has not changed and it must not change at this crucial juncture in the negotiations. we have tried to the utmost to reach a sensible agreement on fisheries. i am aware of and appreciate the enormous efforts made by our chief negotiator, michel barnier. but so far this has not been possible, despite the constructive attitude of the european union. but that doesn't mean we're giving up. quite the opposite. european fishermen know a lot about sailing despite the difficulties and will continue to do so. the common fisheries policy is a commitment between the member states of the european union, including the united kingdom, because we have built this system together with them, and it would not be fair or acceptable for european fishermen to have no rights. this is no time to settle for a no-deal exit. it's not even time to be looking for responsibility. it is time to keep working until the last minute, although it is true that the last minute is already too close for those waters to see eu-flagged vessels fishing again and our markets to open up to the uk, because deep down, the british and the whole world, beyond radical positions, know what is best and want it that way. in this last effort, europe needs to stand together more than ever. our fishermen and europe, including the uk, deserve it.
madam president, one year ago, we offered the united kingdom something we had never offered any third country: the most comprehensive partnership that the eu has ever concluded. we stand by our offer. the european parliament has consistently been extremely flexible, patient and constructive throughout the negotiations. we will continue to do everything within our power to avoid a no-deal brexit, because we are aware of the crucial importance of such an agreement for our citizens and our businesses. but we also remain realistic. there are only 13 days left until the end of the transition period. a no-deal has never been closer, and our citizens and businesses deserve clarity and predictability. that is why, today, we are ensuring that planes can keep flying, trucks can keep running and fishermen can keep fishing after 31 december. these contingency measures are of course no substitute for a deal, but they will alleviate, if necessary, the otherwise unavoidable disruption for both eu and uk citizens. because, in spite of michel barnier’s tireless work and dedication, the uk government has still not found the courage to find an agreement. prime minister johnson has yet to acknowledge that every agreement is a compromise and that there is no such thing as having all the benefits of eu membership if you decided to leave. while trade deals are normally about convergence, this agreement deals with future divergence. when sovereign states decide to strike a deal, it is normally not used as a badge to prove their sovereignty. and at a time when all european nations are in the midst of an economic recession due to a pandemic, it would only be sensible to avoid another blow to our businesses and citizens. the european parliament has been patient, but democracy cannot and will not bend to the uk’s lack of responsibility. it is boris johnson who refused to even consider an offer for the transition period. our right to post-democratic scrutiny of any agreement will not be compromised, and there will be no provisional application without parliamentary consent. it is my sincere hope that a deal will be reached – a good and a fair deal for the citizens on both sides of the channel. and it will have been worth it, every single second of it, because as one of the greatest from the uk would say about these negotiations, ‘all’s well that ends well’.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. to understand the debate today about deal or no deal, we also need to look back to 2016, when a majority of the british people said they no longer wanted to be part of this european union. and it would have been the right thing for the european family of nations to have done to have met this decision with respect and to have met the majority of the british people with respect. that was omitted. from the very first moment, a decision which, in the eyes of many, could not be here, which should not have been, was not welcomed with friendship but with disapproval, and punitive sanctions were repeatedly put in place, and the worst thing for me was that the chief negotiator of the european union met the british here with unfriendliness which does not belong to a european family of nations. i am reminded of council president tusk, for example, who would have liked to see the brexiteers go to hell. i am reminded of the parliamentary negotiator verhofstadt who compared the people who pushed for brexit to unlikable people from the french revolution. this is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! but the decision was made as it was made. and look at that, the british people on their way out of the european union are suddenly mobile, able to make decisions suddenly. the following are just two examples: the situation in the corona crisis, for example, which affects us all, is that the british have been vaccinating people who want to be vaccinated for two weeks, and the european union has not yet started here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal transport system is not affected by the new rules. ladies and gentlemen, i appeal to you to use the approach of these negotiations to treat the british with friendship and respect. because perhaps one day, when this european union is reformed and the british want to return, they should remember that the goal of the negotiations ended with friendship and respect for them, and not with disapproval and tones that should not be used in political discussion.
madam president, ask not, as the line goes, for whom the bell tolls. as the clock ticks down to 31 december we look forward to ringing in a new year that will surely be an improvement on the one we’ve been through. the bells of the new year will herald hope, but so too will they toll for a bleaker tale, as 31 december marks the end of an era and brexit becomes a harsh reality. this week we are seeing contingency measures being put in place in preparation for a no-deal brexit on issues including transport and fisheries. the measures are a bare, but a crucial, minimum in terms of protecting livelihoods and links with our eu partners. but they do not provide any clarity around protection of our waters or our coastal communities and fishers – the men and the women who bring food to our tables. scouts in ireland say: ‘bí ullamh’ – be prepared. we can but try. ask not for whom the bell tolls, i repeat. brexit will impact on all our lives. and the brexit bell will toll for each and every one of us.
madam president, there’s no doubt about it that break-ups can often be ugly and hostile. this one has certainly been no exception, and i for one am heartily glad that it’s coming to an end, because for four years we’ve been fed a diet in ireland that this is the end of the world as we know it. but you know what? it isn’t, because business is business and a way will be found. it may be the case that some of the new arrangements are disruptive in the short-term, but new arrangements will be found. i just think it’s an awful pity that a lot of this debate was marred by so much sneering and triumphalism. from, on the one hand, claiming aren’t those brits awful eejits that didn’t even know what they were voting for, to being outraged that the royal navy might police british waters. well, why wouldn’t they, when spanish, french and portuguese trawlers are already destroying the seabeds and interfering with our fisheries rights in ireland? so, the idea that the eu was driven by high values while the brits were just out for themselves is utter nonsense. both sides are looking out for themselves. but we should remember here today that 17 million european citizens voted to leave the european union. there are tens of millions more who are being let down. the real division isn’t between the eu and the uk; it’s between the haves and the have-nots. we need to start dealing with that or there’ll be a lot more brexit to come.
madam president, firstly i’m an optimist, so i still hope that there can be a deal and i believe there should be a deal. bear in mind, if we fail to reach an agreement between the european union and the uk, it would have been a failure of politics and diplomacy. but equally, it will have failed livelihoods across the european union - coastal communities in ireland, france and spain, people working in factories in germany and people whose livelihoods will be impacted in the uk as well. so, for all our sakes, i urge everybody involved to ensure that there’s goodwill in these last few hours of negotiations to protect the livelihoods of european citizens. i also want to put on the record my great appreciation to the commission and to michel barnier, who is a household name in ireland at this stage, for the support and effort that he put into ensuring that the northern ireland protocol and the challenging issues and unique circumstances on the island of ireland were very much addressed. and i thank the european union and this parliament for the solidarity with the irish people as well, in the context of brexit negotiations. so, we have just but hours. but these hours are crucial because they could set in train years of dissent between the uk and the european union if we cannot come to an agreement in everybody’s interest. i wish you well and i wish the people of europe a happy christmas and a peaceful new year.
