madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest theft in history, as defined by the united nations, continues unpunished before our eyes: even today, women worldwide earn on average 23 percent less than men. europe is not doing enough: it is not enough to give women representative shares in the boards of large companies, representative shares which are not at all sufficient to solve the problem. it is an illiberal solution: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome one. the wrong and dangerous message that women are a "protected" category with pink quotas is really risking to weaken, rather than strengthen, the contractual strength of women. on the contrary, the proper recognition of skills and merit will be the only possible solution to combine equal opportunities with equal dignity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, wage discrimination is one of the most widespread and aberrant forms of social inequality, which prevents women from fully participating in the economic and social growth of their country. this discrimination has a lot to do with the cultures and stereotypes that characterize today's social patterns and labour market dynamics at national levels. commissioner dalli, your proposal for pay transparency is acceptable, but as the five star movement we ask you that the new proposal for a directive not be just another list of statements of principle and good intentions, but that it should provide the member states with solutions to solve once and for all the problem of gender segregation in the various professions and sectors of activity, which is the main cause of the pay gap between men and women. it is also necessary to start discussing a harmonised system of sanctions, which would punish those who flagrantly violate the right to equal pay and those who deliberately exploit women's work to the detriment of justice and social cohesion.
madam president, when europe needs to renew its unity and look beyond the horizon, maintaining the gender pay gap is not only unjust to women, but also anachronistic. it insults women as full—fledged members of society. when the brightest women earn less than their male colleagues, it also reduces europe’s chances in global competition. to make our labour market fit for the 21st century, we must get rid of the famous 16% differential. also, the fact that today women are better educated does not mean that in the future the labour market will be more woman friendly. girls are not encouraged by families, schools, universities or businesses to learn skills in new technologies. the pay gap can grow in the future. as a gender stereotype, the pay gap is a cost to the entire society. that is why i am convinced that this house will spare no effort to support the commission action to ensure that the gender pay gap will be abolished entirely.
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that to close the gender pay gap is not a symbol, but a way to restore social justice in our democracies. not only is there the pay gap, but women are also victims of glass ceilings since they are not often promoted at the top level of their career. women are victims of family duties and tasks since they are often the only caregiver in the house. women are victims of gender bias and often not considered adequate enough. women are also victims of violence, and more than 30% have experienced one form of violence in their lives. so this is the real fight, a fight for decency, for justice and for change. we have to fight for a day on which women will be fully equal to men, on which they will be fully aware of their value and their potential, and on which no more women will have to choose between a child and a job. so please let us close the pay gap as soon as possible within the next three months. you have to promise us: ‘you’re not alone, we are with you and we will never give up’.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all obviously in favour of programmes to help the homeless, to help them to rehabilitate, to have a roof over their heads and to reintegrate into society. but since we are here, we should also think a little about the causes, and if we are to say everything, the european union has responsibilities, because it has actually multiplied the homeless and the unfit, increasing the number of people who party in our streets and commit crime. i say this because the goodwill, the false integration, the unlimited hospitality, the saying "we have all the doors open", the praise of multiculturalism actually what have they done? they have increased the number of immigrants, bringing immigrants upon immigrants into our territories. unbridled immigration brings degradation, social discomfort, increases crime (because they have to live somehow) and increases the homeless on our streets. so, since we're here, maybe we should do a little less rhetoric and a little more self-criticism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against poverty in all its forms has become an urgent matter that can no longer be postponed, and the housing first proposal can be a credible response to the deplorable phenomenon of homelessness. however, as the five star movement, we reiterate that without a thorough examination of social policies from the point of view of the stability pact, this initiative too risks being a dead letter. commissioner schmit, we are faced with a major contradiction: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. as the european commission, have the courage to propose that social investment be excluded from the stability pact, because only then will it be possible to give concrete and tangible answers to people in need and poverty. the european citizens are asking us for it, commissioner, and that is our task, we must do it today and give the homeless back their lost dignity.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate shows that the problem of homelessness exists in the south, the north, the west and the west. it exists in virtually every major city. this shows that this is a local problem, but also a european problem, and we cannot evade this problem by saying that, in the end, europe has no competence or that competence lies primarily with the member states or local authorities. we are being challenged and your debate shows it. we want to engage and we want to find solutions. the challenge is considerable, the figures have been mentioned, and the resources we need are also considerable, but not impossible to mobilise. i agree that the first solution is indeed supply because there is a huge supply gap in europe. the housing market has become a speculative market, it must be said. we must therefore ensure that supply in our member states and in our cities is again matched by demand. it is true that housing is at the heart of all social problems. first, the work, the job. you don't have a home, you don't have a job. you have no home, your health is deteriorating. you have problems, your problems get bigger the moment you're on the street. we therefore need a comprehensive approach that first tackles the housing problem but also accompanies those who are victims of absolute exclusion in their return not only to employment but i would say to dignity because people on the streets are deprived of their essential and fundamental dignity. we have wonderful texts: we have the declaration, we have the foundation, we have our values; today is a day of action and a call from every side of this house. we will not stand idle. the housing problem must be at the heart of the fight against poverty. moreover, when we talk about a guarantee for children, housing is an integral part of it and, without wanting to make any specific commitments now, i believe it is important that we work together on a concept, to bring together the member states, local authorities with the committee of the regions, among others, to actually develop a common approach. it will certainly not be uniform, since the situations are nevertheless different, but we need a common thread, a real thread, which guides our policies and also inspires the policies to be implemented. i hope and am convinced that your parliament will join in this offer. we will work on a real housing policy which will be declined at all levels but of which europe will be an inspiration.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the number of homeless people in europe and worldwide is increasing significantly, with a few rare exceptions. the problem is urgent and alarming; the most vulnerable are the most affected, young people, women and foreigners. the social groups already at risk of poverty who, without a suitable place to live in dignity, will see their living conditions irretrievably worsen and sometimes even die. in many regions of europe there are already experiments and policies to welcome the homeless and to help them to return to an independent and self-sufficient life, i am thinking for example of the housing first project in italy and in particular in emilia romagna. but of course we need robust public funding and shared inclusion policies at the various territorial levels. housing is a right for everyone. the house allows you to develop your life plan and to commit to the future. without a home, there is no dignity. i hope that the commission will include a robust chapter on housing policies for the homeless in the implementation of the social pillar.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is raw parma ham, an excellence made in italy, but the nutri-score system, which you want to introduce throughout europe, is an unhealthy food: you see, he's a category d. but, for example, this canned sausage, which is clearly an industrial product, is actually a healthy product, has a green sticker and an a, so it's absolutely edible. this pre-cooked pasta, finely bolognese and finely italian, also has the letter a and the green sticker, so for you it is a healthy product. does that sound normal to you? in fact, healthy, natural products, which are also the basis of the mediterranean diet, such as extra virgin olive oil and parmigiano reggiano - which are also the best in my own region - are being rejected, and industrial, frozen or pre-cooked products are being favoured in a totally discriminatory way. i simply want to say, not only personally but on behalf of the whole id group, that we will be barricading ourselves and waging war here in the chamber to protect healthy products and therefore also made in italy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to wish good work to our croatian neighbours, a people with whom we italians share a beautiful sea. the adriatic sea offers us so much good fish, but in recent years it has been the target of harsh restrictive policies by the european union, not least the tacs in force since 1 january 2020, and other reductions, such as the 10% cut in days at sea of trawlers, which risks reducing italian fish production by 40% alone. all this is the work of the european commission, which, instead of consulting parliament in the spirit of codecision, has preferred to bypass it and act within the framework of the general committee on fisheries in the mediterranean. that is why it is important to strengthen the link between our states and to stand united against this attempt to delegitimize parliament, which is the voice of the people. the commitment of italy, croatia and slovenia to fisheries must be combined in order to defend and protect fishermen in the context of good neighbourly relations. i hope that this presidency will do a lot of good to protect the european fisheries sector by starting to support the modernisation of vessels and the socioeconomic measures of the new emff. in view of the presence of the commission, i ask, and i expect a clear answer, whether they intend to start negotiations or withdraw the proposal for a multiannual plan for small pelagic fish in the adriatic, which has been stranded for too long. only with more effective, simple and accessible policies can we ensure the development and economic growth of european citizens and businesses. we are therefore also strengthening regional cooperation programmes between states, for example by promoting interreg.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank prime minister plenković. a strong europe in a world of challenges that's the motto of croatia. croatia has a great opportunity, and a great challenge to face is to bring citizens closer to the european institutions and to show that europe is not the europe of big economic and financial interests but the europe of citizens, which can and must give much more for our small local realities. it won 't be an easy semester . the challenges are great such as brexit, the drafting of the multiannual financial framework, the management of migration flows and the priorities are ambitious to give europe more infrastructure, more development, more security and more influence over global choice. but not only that, the other items on the agenda are no less important: support for rural areas, agriculture, increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting sustainable tourism and strengthening macro-regional cooperation. in the field of culture and education, the objectives of increasing the mobility of students and researchers, promoting europe's cultural heritage and using sport as a tool for social inclusion are certainly shared. as i come from the veneto region and given the historical and cultural similarities between my region and croatia, i will do my utmost to help achieve the objectives, wishing the presidency a good job and therefore confirming my support and full cooperation. thank you to the president, prime minister plenković.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a trillion for the next ten years: this is the commission's investment plan to bring europe to climate neutrality by 2050. we know the budget for this investment plan, one trillion, but it is not yet clear where the resources will come from to reach that figure. will the funds for the other european programmes be reduced? and if so, which will suffer a decrease? the other two knots to be untied are important: the criteria for the beneficiaries and the way in which these funds are distributed. does the commission envisage the possibility of relaxing state aid rules in order to achieve the objective of climate neutrality? why not do the same for other policies? it is called the just energy transition fund. we hope that fairness will not be just a slogan but will be translated into concrete action, especially for the benefit of our small and mediumsized enterprises, which are not mentioned in this investment plan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, half a million workers are affected, 160 000 jobs are at risk throughout europe, 50 regions are affected: these are the likely numbers of what could be the next employment crisis. the commission is proposing a strategy of decarbonisation, according to the gospel of the most radical neoliberal, in the knowledge that it will aggravate the problem of unemployment, all in the name of fatalism, because it seems that you have resigned yourselves to deindustrialising europe, the continent where the industrial revolution began. i ask what resources will be allocated to this fund, since you have spoken of a billion which do not exist today, and above all do you think you can solve something by sending unemployed people of 50 years of age to take training courses? if the way is to cut cohesion funds or the european regional development fund, then we are not there. i ask for the help of interpreters at this point, because in italian, in these cases, they say that the top is worse than the hole!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has been divided over the crisis between the united states and iran and the violence in iraq. he has even expressed positions close to iran at times, just to spite trump. we have arrived at the paradox: for days, general soleimani was hailed as a hero in europe, too, and instead we have seen complete silence over the downing of a civilian airliner that killed 176 people. let us remember that the crisis stems from the iranian attack on the us embassy in baghdad. we forget about the protests against the iranian regime in recent months: we are talking about 1,500 dead and over 10,000 injured, thousands of arrests, torture, 100 women hanged, censored internet access, protests blacked out in the media. in the face of a violent regime that funds terrorism, we do not need a european union of the mogherini type, which two years ago appeared in iran with the veil of submission without denouncing the dictatorship and the hell that exists there. we need clear positions, courage and the return of democracy!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the wave of instability triggered by the death of general soleimani has once again highlighted the inadequacy of the european union's foreign policy, reducing it to a consortium of goodwill, often ineffective and having little impact on the situations that matter. mr borrell, this is not about you or your professionalism, it is about the context in which the european union must operate and therefore the legal framework: the european union has been a party to the negotiations on the nuclear deal with iran, the collapse of the iranian economy, the belated admission of the downing of the ukrainian boeing, which killed 176 people, the diplomatic case of the arrest of the british ambassador. there is a risk of further clashes and street demonstrations escalating, with the consequent violent reaction of the regime. where is the geopolitical commission promised by president von der leyen? how has the situation been contained during these periods? we talked in november about iraq and iran. the call for lowering the tone, and i do, is to use dialogue and diplomacy to find a political solution, and i do. but then nothing happens and everything is resolved in a joint statement. the first note from president von der leyen on soleimani's death came only days later. the european union is once again in danger of... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president! the iran nuclear deal was a triumph of patient diplomacy, the art of the possible. war, casualties, destruction is always the failure of diplomacy. this system could have been a pillar of a global non-proliferation strategy built on the simple principle that it's easier to stop someone's armament than it is to disarm the possessor of an atomic bomb. but president trump, unprepared for his experience with north korea, chose a different path. so the less predictable the presidency of the united states is, the greater our responsibility for our own security and that of the region. i often hear that iran is a country of terrorists. this is a country of 80 million people. a very young community that i have come to know in the five years that i have been chairing the european parliament's delegation to iran. these people want to live their own lives, not necessarily the ayatollah's. and this is the great reservoir of peaceful cooperation that should be the strategic goal of our diplomacy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the de-escalation between iran and the united states after the very high level of tension over the killing of general soleimani is good news, but there are still many knots to be untied. the nuclear agreement was the most important achievement of european foreign policy in recent years, bringing the country back into the fold of western political and commercial partners after years of tense relations. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. at the same time, we must not forget the iranian people, who have been taking to the streets for months now, primarily because of the difficult economic conditions, including the american sanctions, and who have been subjected to harsh repression. the events of the past few days, including the terrible incident of the downed plane, have further aggravated the situation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, there is a desire in the hearts of the iranian and iraqi people, regardless of their ethnic and religious differences and their deplorable authoritarian governments: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is the voice of the people who are calling for security, prosperity and peace, and it is the voice of the people who are calling for protests, such as the protests in iran, which have already caused hundreds and hundreds of deaths since november, often with the indifference of many of us and the international community. this is the highest level of confrontation since 1979, and is this the rule of law we are trying to defend? and that billion and more euros, directly from europe, which have tried to support these people humanitarianally, where did they end up if not in the hands of governments that are puppets of tehran? because perhaps we will soon understand that the elimination of soleimani, the greatest leader of islamic fundamentalism, will serve to liberate those who fight for freedom and we should thank, mr. high representative, who freed us from the greatest terrorist in the world, against israel and against us, ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in iraq and iran is serious, worrying and dangerous. we must be united and determined as the european union, and for that reason certain things must be said very clearly. the killing of general soleimani by the united states was a mad act, to be condemned, a reckless act, which strengthens the enemies of democracy. today what we must not do, the mistake we must not make, is to throw away the nuclear agreement. it is even more important than before, as the high representative has stressed: it's a real test bed for us. finally, both in iraq and in iran there is a civil society that demands transparency and democratic development. we must start from supporting those women and men to supporting the diplomatic and political way and to avoid an escalation that is still unavoidable.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today to ask and beg you not to be complicit in a shameful business of almost six billion dollars, surrogacy, an alarmingly growing phenomenon worldwide, where rich western buyers exploit women from poor countries as an insidious form of colonization or, worse, a new form of slavery. let us work together against this shameful practice that violates human rights, the dignity of women and the commercialization of their bodies. innocent children, taken from their mothers, become mere objects of contract, trampling on article 7 of the convention on the rights of the child itself. this parliament has already spoken out in 2011 and 2015 against the degradation of women's bodies and the exploitation of vulnerable girls. today i ask that the much-vaunted protection of women should not remain an empty word. it is essential that the european union, which proclaims itself to be the foremost defender of human rights, take all possible measures against surrogate motherhood, because women are not incubators and children are not commodities. ladies and gentlemen of this house, today i ask for your help!
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr mcallister and mr danjean for their excellent work and for their reports, which help us to understand better how, for example, just a few kilometres from our borders, the crises in north africa and the middle east have developed without the efforts of the european union producing any results. after five years of failed juncker administration, libya is now sliding into the hands of russia, turkey and china, while the much-vaunted iran nuclear deal crumbles at the first sign of trouble. but the question is simple, mr. vice president borrell: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president borrell, as it says at the entrance to this parliament, 51 million europeans voted because they want to see parliament act on our security and defence: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. does the european union acknowledge that it endorsed regime change in libya in 2011 to reduce it to a failed state by 2020? who will judge the european union for contributing to so much human suffering? to this we must add the mockery of today, which sees our natural role played by turkey and russia, while in the background even saudi arabia and china are emerging. it is the sad result of 70 years of political convergence on the internal market and no convergence on foreign policy, and so mediterranean security is the eternal test for us. because europe is the mediterranean, or it is not europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, yesterday's meeting in moscow with the presence of al-sarraj and haftar sends us two clear messages. the first is that the eu is not yet strong and united enough. despite the turbulent diplomatic initiatives of the various member states, all useful but none decisive, we have unfortunately abdicated the opportunity to play the role that russia and turkey have taken - and this is the second news - of being able to enter into the dynamics of the libyan conflict to pursue their own agendas and then to obtain a temporary ceasefire. the bad news today is that the truce has not been confirmed, haftar does not sign. so, we're back to square one? yes, but it also opens up an opportunity to seize: if we want to prevent a new syrian scenario on our borders, we must prepare for the berlin summit on sunday by putting on the table a new proposal, a united nations intervention mission with the participation of the european countries at the forefront - my own first of all - of the neighbouring countries - i am thinking, for example, of tunisia and algeria - of representatives of the arab and islamic world and of anyone who cares about the future of the libyan people, who are suffering most from this proxy war. only then will we have the neutrality and the capacity to bring the institutions together and disarm the militias: a big mistake not to have done this earlier, after the unfortunate intervention in 2011. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question with a blue card. i respect your opinion very much. i have known you well for the past five years and i wanted to know your opinion on the following matter, so that mr borrell could hear it: the regime in tripoli, libya has made a deal with erdoğan, under which turkey has claimed to have acquired eezs in the eastern mediterranean with a state so far away that it's almost as if turkey could have set up eezs with costa rica! what would you advise mr borrell to do to counter turkish aggression, given that turkey says that in the coming weeks it will send research vessels there, to the place where greece's sovereign rights are, as it did in the cypriot eez?
answer to a blue-card question. mr mavrides, mr costas, as you know, i have repeatedly criticised this agreement between turkey and libya, which does not seem to me to be going in the right direction at all and, above all, which also jeopardises the interests and the legitimate protection of the interests of two member states such as greece and cyprus, and i do not believe that this unilateral attitude is tolerable on the part of a country which is a candidate for accession to the european union. it seems to me that the conflict is rapidly escalating, within the libyan theatre, towards a full-blown clash of regional geopolitical powers present in the theatre itself, and this must absolutely be avoided. that is why it is essential that the european union should be more present, and i therefore have confidence in the high representative's action, so that concrete initiatives, such as the intervention force, are actually discussed in berlin and that we move towards the reunification of the institutions before it is too late.
madam president, we are discussing tonight a subject that has been overshadowed in recent days by tensions in iraq and iran, and which is of paramount importance to the european union. we have witnessed an agreement between libya and turkey, which directly violates the international law of the sea and the sovereignty of third countries, and turkey, formally a nato ally, is again negotiating with russia for action in our immediate neighborhood. in libya, the opposing sides, russia and turkey, have tried to consolidate their positions and negotiate a ceasefire, but that attempt failed today. at the same time, the european union's member states are still struggling to find a common policy towards libya and a coordinated response to this crisis. it should be emphasized that military intervention cannot solve the chaos in libya, but it can widen it. our policy towards libya cannot be reduced to a mere migration policy. the european union and the geopolitical commission must take on a more active and productive role, especially in the immediate neighbourhood. the berlin process and cooperation with the united nations are the path to be followed at this time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proxy war being fought in libya once again demonstrates the european union's inconsistency in the great international crisis scenarios, and vice-president borrell's intervention - sincere, for heaven's sake - this evening is nothing but a monument to impotence. it is an absence that is also aggravated by the arrogance and mistakes of some governments, starting with the french one in the past, which since 2011 in libya have played a game without scruples, handing us the war and the migration crisis. and while turkey is pursuing its neo-ottoman design, while the gulf monarchies are settling accounts at our doorstep, with the absence of the whole of europe, it stands out - unfortunately as an italian i have to say it - also that of the italian government, which is babbling relying on impotent international bodies, while large nations are dividing up what was a fundamental area of influence for our country. so, mr. high representative, we have a few days left to change course and avoid catastrophe.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, it is becoming increasingly clear in the debates this afternoon and now late at night that we have no role to play in the world's crisis centres, even on our doorstep. and we feel that we are tossed back and forth between powerlessness and powerlessness, hope and appeal. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. libya also reflects the state of european asylum, migration, neighbourhood, foreign and security policy, not just in the middle east region. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. we have only one chance that at the summit in berlin this weekend a concerted european initiative will contribute to a change and take the lead. please tell us what our ability to act in berlin will mean.
madam president, mr borrell, you have described a situation in libya that is truly unbearable. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in addition, there are massive human rights violations on libyan territory, migrants who are trapped and trafficked, activists who have been killed or disappeared - member of parliament siham sergewa, who has now been missing for more than six months - and women who have been abused by the libyan regime. if the solution is not military, it is not authoritarian either. it seems that with the turkish, russian and egyptian interventions, not only is the military taking the lead, but the model they defend is far from a model that defends human rights. europe has therefore once again a role to play, an important role on the diplomatic and political scene: the berlin conference, of course, mediation and dialogue with all the interlocutors and finally the promotion of democracy and human rights. thank you for your action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the handling of the libyan crisis has brought to light the embarrassing inadequacy of the italian government on such a sensitive and strategic issue. but it all started with the overthrow of gaddafi ten years ago. would europe make the same choice ten years from now? the european union has left a vacuum in which russia and turkey have entered, playing a leading role in the mediterranean chessboard. ankara is taking over the keys to the southern migration corridor, with the goodwill of italy, which has very important economic, energy and strategic interests in libya. the facts are merciless: the incompetence of the current italian government in foreign policy has been certified by this incident. the truce on the libyan crisis was not signed yesterday in moscow; it should have been signed in rome, and it wasn't, but the whole world is now waiting for it to be signed in berlin. if europe fails again, it will be just another step backwards in an international policy which sees us as increasingly marginalised.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative/vice-president, you have rightly said that things in libya are going from bad to worse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unfortunately, in libya, the erdoğan model and the putin model are prevailing. we have a lot of responsibilities. we must overcome the unanimity of the member states, which too often prevents action and reaction. the equidistance between al-serraj and haftar has not served and does not serve our credibility. without tribal involvement, there will never be peace in libya. i share the desire for dialogue, but unfortunately good intentions alone do not stop war. it is urgent to reactivate the sophia mission, impose an arms embargo, deploy a european intervention force. i remember john kennedy saying: "we can never be afraid to negotiate but we can never negotiate out of fear".
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope that we can all agree that our future requires a stronger, more efficient and more credible european union. and the european union is all of us: citizens, communities, regions, nations and the european community. let us therefore make the future our friend! let us make the citizens our allies! let us put the future of europe and the role of the european union in the world out of the question of party politics. the future requires a strengthening of european democracy, no decision without the european parliament, the abolition of unanimity in the decision-making process, a european electoral right with european lists, the right of initiative, budgetary sovereignty, self-financing, european referendums. the future requires a european government which will then be the continent's spokesman in the world and which must have a common foreign, security and defence policy. our future requires european responses to global challenges, our future requires a single market without barriers, our future requires a budget commensurate with the size of the tasks, the number of europe's population and investment in the future. the future requires dialogue, a european consciousness and joint action. we as parliaments must be ready for this. we're with our one million visitors, with increased voter turnout and with our liaison offices and stakeholders. let's face it together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost 80 years since altiero spinelli and ernesto rossi, who were confined to an island by the fascist regime, wrote the ventotene manifesto. today more than ever we feel the need for renewal and concreteness. the conference on the future of europe offers us a unique, and perhaps the last, opportunity to respond to the calls for change and participation not only in the large urban centres but also in the countryside and the peripheries, by listening to those who are against, those who are critical, those who do not share the current system of the european union. the european institutions must commit themselves to implementing the main proposals that will emerge from the conference, including by amending the treaties, otherwise we risk wasting one of the last chances for change and there will be a great risk of a real boomerang, of a backward step by parliament and the european union. the road ahead is not easy or safe, but it must be travelled and it will be travelled, and we will do so with conviction and passion.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there are many historical distortions in europe about the second world war: we cannot not talk, for example, about the resistance in italy. the premise: my speech is not against the resistance in italy, in fact, we do not want to demonize, but it is necessary to make some clarifications. in italy there was not just one group of partisans fighting against the fascist regime but there were communist, socialist, catholic, conservative and republican groups. and yet, despite this, there seems to be a well-established and distorted narrative in my country that only one company was responsible for the fight against nazism. in the wake of this, some associations, even those funded with public money, instead of explaining the story in detail and objectively, do not miss an opportunity to take a political stand with the left, in this case in italy. during the civil war, which took place between '43 and '45, heinous crimes were committed by both companies. but the crimes committed by the fascists are rightly and widely highlighted, while those committed by the partisans are covered by a cloak of impunity and oblivion. let us take the case of rolando rivi, a 14-year-old seminarian murdered by partisans, or the more than 2 600 women raped and murdered without due process, on the pretext that they were friends of the fascists. but today it is easier to hide behind a simple "bella ciao", as some commissioner has done in this house, when we know, as is well known, that "bella ciao" was not the anthem of the partisans. i would like to conclude, mr president, by quoting a great italian left-wing journalist who died a few days ago: "everyone knows these things or has heard them said and no one dares to bring them up and tell them for fear of being branded as fascist". thank you for your intellectual honesty, giampaolo pansa.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the second world war was launched by the national socialists in order to establish in europe and the world a racial and anti-semitic dictatorship, committed to the shoah, that is to say to the final solution, the disappearance of ethnic groups, religions and political ideas considered as enemies. against this danger, different forces have joined forces and, in joining forces, they have won, they have defeated the nazi demon. it is never wise to compare and draw similarities between different historical events and to do so for political reasons. rather, to learn from history means to grasp the degenerative elements, the cultural humus that led to the shoah, to grasp them in the present, and today the common sense fed by far-right forces is imbued with racism and anti-semitism. our democracy must fight today against the danger of a new fascism. we should dedicate this debate to the millions of people who were tortured and killed in auschwitz because it was there, in those crematories, that the historic need for the european union was born, against the nationalism and racism that are the demons of our europe.
mr. chairman of the board! the events leading up to and during world war ii were very tragic for all the peoples of europe. genocide, the holocaust, and the loss of independence of several european countries for decades under soviet occupation. there are a number of european countries whose people suffered under both nazi germany and soviet occupation and repression. it is therefore completely inappropriate - now, decades later - to try to justify and seek to justify the crimes and agreements of the dictatorships of hitler and stalin. many european nations lost their independence for decades and lost tens or hundreds of thousands of people. and we must learn from this harsh experience. this generation of people is disappearing from our midst, who have a personal memory of what preceded these crimes and how it became possible, what changed in european societies. it is therefore particularly important that new generations also come to understand what happened in europe that enabled the regimes led by both hitler and stalin to commit crimes. and it's not helped by attempts to rewrite history and justify the crimes committed by these dictators.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the worst form of historical distortion is silence. for half a century italy and europe have wanted to forget what happened to the thousands of italians who were forced to abandon their homes and their property in istria, rijeka and dalmatia. the history books have omitted the tens of thousands of italians brutally murdered in the karst foes by the titini partisans. today many want to continue to forget: communists of the third millennium continue to call norma cossetto a fascist, a young student of letters and philosophy who was brutally raped by yugoslav partisans for the sole fault of being italian; the theatre shows like simone cristicchi's "magazzino 18" are boycotted by social centres and the left and films like "red land" have difficulty finding a place in theatres and television sets. "prisoners of silence" is the title of a book by giampaolo pansa, a recently deceased italian journalist, who broke the silence on the italian left to speak about these issues. the 'prisoners of silence' are those who, as our president of the republic, sergio mattarella, has reminded us, have been deprived of the comfort of memory and remembrance by the distortion of history.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take advantage of this interesting debate on the distortion of european history to remember giampaolo pansa, one of the most respected italian journalists, who died last sunday and who was not a member of my political party: a left-wing journalist. pansa had the courage to go against the grain, re-reading some of the most controversial pages of italian history in the 20th century. his 2003 essay "the blood of the defeated", in which he described the crimes committed by communist partisans after 1945, has cost him the accusation of revisionism by the left and some political forces that like to call themselves democratic. in reality, it was not revisionism at all but the correct account of events at the beginning and after the second world war. the italian right has been kept out of government for decades by an ad excludendum convention based on the use of history for political purposes. we want to prevent this from happening again.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once upon a time there was a government legitimized by democratic elections. there was once freedom of self-determination, the right to protect one's borders, to love one's religious and cultural roots, but then there was the red guardian of the treaties, frans timmermans, armed with socialism, bureaucracy, arrogance, and then there was article 7. this story takes place in hungary or poland, but it could happen anywhere. unum castigabis, centum emendabis: the first sentence of the second paragraph of article 2 of the treaty on european union is replaced by the following: the political use of article 7 is intended to strike one people to educate a hundred. no one sitting in these seats will ever think he's superior to his people, but we think we know them, and so i'll tell you first: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will be prepared to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, on her re-election and on her fruitful work in the field of good administration. i also thank mr jahr for his work on the report, the content of which i find to be generally agreeable, with the exception of the paragraph on the ecb, which in my view is in clear contradiction with the protection of the principles of publicity and transparency inherent in decision-making at eu level. among the positive aspects of the text, however, the recognition of the right of public access to documents of the eu bodies as an inalienable right to be guaranteed to all citizens is particularly effective. however, this right is now being seriously undermined by the regulatory framework, and i am referring to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, the provisions of which, dating back almost 20 years, no longer reflect the current legal situation or the institutional practice in this field. i therefore fully support the request for its revision. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. (the president cut off the speaker)
i am therefore in full agreement with the request for a review. the steps taken to highlight the need for much stricter rules and higher ethical standards to prevent conflicts of interest and revolving doors in all eu institutions and thus ensure that the duty of integrity is respected are also positive. it is the task of the von der leyen commission to ensure that the instances of maladministration, unethical behaviour and regulatory violations, such as those found in the past in the selmayr and barroso cases, do not have to be repeated, by making a decisive reversal in the direction of good administration, full transparency and moral integrity.
mr president, the points made by ms melchior and others were absolutely right. the comitology system is opaque and nobody in the wider public understands it. but of course we do have another system for delegating powers to the commission, which is delegated acts, where it is clear and simple. we delegate powers to the commission, but we can block their decision if we don’t like it, and we can even retrieve the powers that we have delegated if we wish to do so. this can be done unilaterally as parliament, even though it was a joint decision with the council to delegate the powers. is that not an argument to make much greater use of delegated powers rather than implementing acts? mr szájer and i were the co-rapporteurs on the delimitation between implementing acts and delegated acts, but, frankly, we should make much more use of delegated acts. they are transparent and democratic.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would also like to thank honourable members for the family atmosphere in this discussion on a highly legalistic and challenging topic. i agree with mr hojsík and also with karen melchior that it’s not easy to explain to our citizens how the implementing acts are being implemented and adopted. i would really like to reassure all of you that i took very good note of all your thoughts and suggestions, and i also want to make it clear that president von der leyen and i are fully committed to deploy also this process and our special partnership to advance on the reforms in all aspects, including on promoting more transparency and accountability in this particular area. i took very good note of mr szájer, mr ropė and also mr durand, with clear advice and points made in that direction. i would like to thank mr corbett also for explaining the difficult situation in which we are because when we are implementing and adopting, we are actually fulfilling the will of this house which was expressed as a co-legislator when adopting the legislative act. therefore, our space for legislative manoeuvre is very often very limited and therefore what we would do is we will again try to advance this file and work with the council and with you to really make sure that the procedures have more transparency and clarity in the future. i very much appreciate the fact that most of your suggestions and interventions went in the same direction as the commission proposal, and i will do my best to actually get a better understanding of the position of the council. i will work with the croatian and, if necessary, the german presidency to make sure that we get some traction on this file. what would also help us would be a clear position from the european parliament. i appreciate that several committees have already adopted their positions, but what we need is your clear position, a clear european parliament stand on this issue. this gives my discussions with the council more authority because we know that it is not only the commission but also the european parliament seeing things in the same way which can help us to advance the discussion further. so thank you very much for the support, for the ideas on this very important issue, and we will definitely work with you very closely on this.
commissioner šefčovič, i do not want to exaggerate the familiar atmosphere, but you said that the 'implementing acts' fulfil the will of parliament. i must confess that sometimes i am not quite sure whether they are 'implementing' or 'interpreting' this action. maybe we should talk about that sometime. the debate is closed.
author. – madam president, on 17 september 2019, mr adam farkas announced his resignation from his position as executive director of the european banking authority (eba), which will be effective on 31 january 2020 to become, starting on 1 february 2020, the ceo of the association for financial markets in europe (afme), a well-known lobbying company that, according to its website, is the voice of europe’s wholesale financial services. let me remind you what the eba’s responsibilities are: the eba is responsible for supervising the eu’s banking sector and for setting technical standards implementing key financial regulations. this makes the eba a fundamental institution that regulates and supervises the financial sector. it also, of course, makes it a constant lobbying target for the industry. afme, like other stakeholders, appears to have permanent interactions with the eba. in compliance with the staff regulations and ethical rules, the eba’s board of supervisors has taken a decision to impose fairly light restrictions on its executive director, both while in service at the eba and after leaving the eba. however, the restrictions on mr farkas’s future employment do not seem either realistic or enforceable. unless mr farkas simply becomes afme’s poster boy, i cannot really find a single topic that afme covers that does not fall within the remit of the eba and does not relate to the work of mr farkas. moreover, it is not clear to me who will monitor the effective application of these restrictions, in particular the one that provides that he cannot engage in lobbying or advocacy of the eba or have professional contacts with eba staff for 24 months after leaving the authority. how are we going to enforce that or control that? who’s going to do that? so, for this reason, we call for a review of this decision by the eba board of supervisors. sadly, mr farkas’ is not the first case, and will probably not be the last, of a post—public employment job in the private sector that poses evident problems of conflicts of interest, but we absolutely must act to ensure that this is the last. i really hope that this is the last. revolving doors, where one jumps from public institutions to top positions in the private sector, from regulators to regulated, or from supervisors to supervised, and vice versa unfortunately not only undermine the credibility of the individual engaging in such behaviour, but undermine the credibility of the whole institution and, more generally, the trust that citizens have in public bodies, and the trust that citizens have in public institutions is the backbone of democracies. so we shall not tolerate our european institutions and agencies’ credibility crumbling just because of some individuals’ interest, and we should always remain vigilant in making sure and guaranteeing that they are not influenced by private interest. for this reason, we call on the commission to assess the current practice on post—public employment at european and national level, to extend this review to pre-public employment conflicts of interest, and also to put in place a harmonised legal framework, which should include an extension of the possibility to block professional moves and the provision of a cooling—off period that is proportionate to the specific case and accompanied by an appropriate temporary allowance. finally, we call on the commission also to assess whether it is appropriate that the eu agencies concerned decide for themselves on the enforcement of the rules for the prevention of conflicts of interest and how a consistent application of the rules can be ensured. i was glad to see that the resolution was supported unanimously by members in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) with no votes against and no abstentions. i hope this is a clear signal and that the plenary widely supports the resolution as well.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of general indifference in nigeria, thousands of christians are being mercilessly slaughtered by hordes of islamic fundamentalists. terrorism has not yet been eradicated and what is happening in nigeria, helpless in the face of jihadist guerrillas, is proof of this. just a few days ago, the jihadist group boko haram released a video of the brutal killing of 11 christian prisoners: the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. humanitarian agencies estimate that at least 30,000 civilians have been killed and 30 million displaced since the beginning of the jihadist offensive in 2009. the european institutions, which promote peace, tolerance and mutual respect, have done nothing to stop this continuing barbarism, which every day puts the lives of millions of innocent people at risk, whose only fault is that they are christians. islamist fanaticism is devouring the country. it is not only the boko haram movement, affiliated with isis, that holds northern nigeria hostage: in recent years, religious-minded guerrillas, such as fulani herdsmen, have been killing with impunity and raiding entire villages in the center of the country, with the aim of forcibly islamizing nigeria. this long blood trail must be stopped as soon as possible. europe must not let its guard down. defending christians in nigeria means defending the west from the brutality of islamist fanaticism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every day 12 christians die in the world: they die while they're in church, while they're going to work, in the middle of the street, in school, in day care, while they're praying, while they're going on pilgrimage. if they are women, they are sometimes kidnapped and raped, if they are children, they are tortured. in nigeria there is a daily slaughter of christians. in recent years, 12 000 christians have been killed, 13 000 churches have been abandoned and destroyed, and 1 300 000 have been displaced. at the end of the year, 11 christians were tragically executed by isis terrorists. in nigeria, christians, especially in the north of the country, are marginalized, persecuted, attacked, deprived of certain rights in school and even in everyday society. europe is faced with this and is babbling: there is no sign, no concrete promise of protection, no serious intervention. as oriana fallaci used to say: "wake up, the west!" persecuted christians cry out for help.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the christian community in nigeria is facing genocide. in the last 12 months, islamic fundamentalists have killed more than a thousand christians, and this is also thanks to the complicity of the army, which knows who the perpetrators are but does not arrest them. on christmas day, a chilling massacre of 11 christians was carried out and the massacre was also posted on the web, while a few days ago four seminarians were kidnapped in an area where sharia law still applies. nigeria is really in danger of becoming the new rwanda or the new darfur: the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been killed in the fighting in iraq. in 2017 alone, 1.3 million people left nigeria. europe, which has refused to incorporate its judeo-christian roots into the constitution, cannot make the mistake of doing nothing. the islamic fundamentalists are not only a danger to nigeria or to nigerian christians, but also to the young people of europe and to the future of our children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of condemning the persecution of christians in nigeria, and at least we are talking about it, but i cannot ignore the fact that the word 'christian' has been removed from the wording of this resolution in relation to the men and women who are humiliated, tortured and killed every day in nigeria, especially at christmas or 'season's greetings', as it is hypocritically called here. just yesterday the ngo open doors reported that there were 260 million attacks against christians and 2 983 murders. that's the highest number ever, more than the twin towers attack in a single year in 2019, but there were only 50 countries under review, and in this horrible ranking, nigeria isn't even in the top ten.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon today to vote not for the united kingdom's exit from europe but for its exit from the european union, and as far as i am concerned the united kingdom has been part of europe since the dawn of time and will remain so as long as the earth goes round the sun. the problem is that they have exercised a sacrosanct right, because the greatest achievement of mankind is to have given sovereignty to the people and the people of the united kingdom have perfectly embodied this principle. i think history will be extremely severe towards barnier, who has been the worst, the worst negotiator possible. in 2016, he said: "i would have succeeded in my task if in the end the agreement was so tough with the british that they would prefer to remain in the european union". i hope one day he will be ashamed and apologize for these statements. god save the queen!
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus is a serious matter: we're talking about 6,000 cases, we've outstripped sars, we've had 132 deaths, and the virus has even entered europe. so, you see, in this place where we sovereignists have been called a virus, you have said that we should have a health cordon, but now that there is a real virus, europe is showing itself to be disunited and lagging behind. disunited because some countries recall their citizens, others do not. some airlines, such as british airways and lufthansa, are halting flights, others are not. some countries have even blocked entry, others have not. late because it's clear that we need to work with the world health organization, which has just now raised its risk assessment to high, by the way, and we need to work with them to find a vaccine as quickly as possible. and finally, it is clear that we need to urge the chinese government to also take action on the hygiene and sanitation conditions of the markets, also because it is very likely that this virus, like sars, has developed in areas and markets where wild animals are sold and eaten, including bats and snakes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the news we are getting these days about the coronavirus epidemic is increasingly worrying and often contradictory. we're at 132 deaths, more than 6,000 confirmed cases and almost 10,000 suspects. the ivory coast's health minister reported that a 34-year-old woman from beijing was hospitalized with symptoms similar to coronavirus, and many african states have issued travel restrictions. but is there any control over who enters europe from third countries? and who controls the irregular migration flows that reach europe's shores? who imposes the necessary quarantines? i would also like to point out that the current protocol for checking the spot temperature of incoming tourists is inadequate and dangerous, both because of the inaccuracy of the skin measurement and because it does not take into account the incubation period. the commission should require all states to check that travellers have not been in infected areas for at least the previous two weeks or to impose an equivalent period of quarantine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as a doctor, i am very concerned about the rapid spread of the coronavirus, whose global risk, as the world health organization itself admits, is considered high. we are facing a global threat of vast proportions and extreme gravity. the virus is growing stronger and can be spread even by asymptomatic individuals. a number of cases of infection have also been reported in europe to date. the actions taken so far by the european commission, while appropriate, are not enough to protect our citizens from a powerful virus for which we do not have clear information on symptoms and epidemiological pathways. i believe it is extremely urgent and important that the european union urges the world health organisation to declare an international health emergency and consequently take the immediate health measures that the situation requires, not least, if necessary, the temporary closure of china's borders, with the suspension of imports of all potential vectors of infection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the european union has always had a close commercial relationship with india, but it must also recognize its attempt to build and defend a state of law, despite the many, many contradictions. we owe india respect. india has nothing to do with the countries around it, from pakistan, ideologically and religiously opposed to progress, to china, which imposes its authoritarianism on more than a billion people, or myanmar, with its ethnic cleansing against the rohingya. apart from any constitutional issues, which it is not for us to assess, the european union's interest must be to avoid any conflict with a country like india, which is projected into the future and is at the forefront of the world in terms of its stem education system, a source of well-being for its citizens. india is a country well aware of the internal and external threats to its security and is only trying to implement the measures it deems necessary.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i find it frankly disconcerting that for the umpteenth time here in the european parliament we are talking about other states, questioning the sovereignty of other states, and questioning it in a state like india, which is recognized as a great democracy, especially in asia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a subject and a provision which is sub judice and which will be assessed by the supreme court of india. but i wonder: but does it really make sense to question the relations between europe and india on an issue that is clearly of indian domestic policy? and above all, i think that the citizens of europe voted for us to discuss the issues and the big problems of europe, not of india or other countries. i 'll close with one thing: the text includes attacks on the government, talks about shutting down the internet and many other things, so it's clear that we as a group will be against it.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last november in strasbourg we discussed the hot spots in greece and today we are still here with the same words but no facts. greece saw the arrival of over 70 000 migrants in 2019 and, according to the latest statistics, about 30 000 migrants or refugees are currently in greece. we are facing a real humanitarian crisis which requires concrete and immediate action. and what concrete and immediate actions is the eu taking, besides being blackmailed by erdogan? billions of our taxpayers' dollars that we could have used more profitably. and i do not think the approach of the new commission is that different. there is talk of a new, decisive plan for migration and asylum, but from what i have heard, the situation in greece will remain as it is. i also wonder how this plan will help to improve the situation in italy, which for years has faced the emergency alone, bravely blocked only by our government, even at the cost of a trial. unfortunately, not until you get to the root of the problem, if you ever do.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have been talking about the situation on the greek islands, and nothing has changed. more than 42 000 people are trapped, 8 800 of them are children, including more than 1 800 unaccompanied, many of them abandoned and unprotected. but how can the europe of rights accept that people live in inhuman conditions? how can we allow the greek government with the new law to weaken protections and access to asylum and extend the use of detention? the commission must put pressure on the government to strengthen legal protections and access to health services and guardians for children. there is talk of closing the camps and creating closed centres on the islands where the applicants can be transferred. but why transfer them back to inadequate facilities? we should urgently move them to the mainland and promote relocations, especially for children. in the long term, we do not need fancy solutions, the only answer is a system of compulsory automatic relocation. let's wake up now! we're talking about people, human beings, not stockpiled goods.
madam president, it is hypocritical of you to be concerned about the protection of immigrant minors, unaccompanied minors and those awaiting family reunification, when you and your allies are promoting all these imperialist interventions. the policy of repression is what is leading the government of the new republic today, according to reports, to design floating barriers and traps in the aegean sea for migrants and refugees, endangering their lives and paving the way for new deadly tragedies in the aegean sea. we tell you: don't even think about it! now, take back these inhuman designs. you too, madam commissioner, take your seat. the european union is co-responsible. the eu-turkey agreement and the dublin agreement have for so many years trapped tens of thousands of asylum seekers in greece in appalling conditions. the false dilemma between closed-door amygdala-style prisons run by new democracy and open-door moria-style prisons run by syriza is stamped with the seal of the european union and is unacceptable; and it has as its common outcome the multiplication of deportations and the curtailment of the remaining rights of asylum seekers. against the dangerous policy of the european union and nationalism, we demand the transfer of asylum seekers to their countries of destination, human reception centres on the mainland, with swift procedures. no minors homeless, incarcerated, unprotected, uneducated, away from their families.
madam president, commissioner, i thank you for your statement that the european commission wants to support the greek government in its efforts to protect the borders against illegal migration. you want to support the greek government in building new centers that will provide more dignified conditions for refugees, and in better return policies and other measures. i agree with you, but it's not enough when it comes to children. children who are unaccompanied minors. unfortunately, there hasn't been since 2018, when i visited the island of lesbos, athens, thessaloniki, visited shelters and refugee facilities. and those children have increased, and today there are over 5,000 unaccompanied minors. i appreciate the work of the aid workers, but i also saw the very slow action of the former greek government. i have even more respect for the ministers of today, for the minister of immigration, for the minister of the interior, and for the whole government, who are working to improve conditions. i welcomed the request of the minister of the interior of the greek government to the ministers of the member states for help. the czech republic was mentioned here. yes, after a lot of pressure from civil society, the czech minister of the interior also asked and offered some help. and we hope that the czech republic will also help and accept unaccompanied children who need help.
madam president, i would like to say to commissioner johansson that we welcome your strong words as we welcome you to your portfolio. you said it right: the situation is totally unacceptable. but we have been saying this for the last five years in all of the languages of the european union. according to the unhcr, 75 000 people arrived on the greek islands just last year: 40 000 are in camps meant for barely 5000; 8000 are minors and 2000 are unaccompanied minors. so the situation is not only unacceptable; it is also against the law. it is against the charter of fundamental rights, which is binding law for all the member states. it’s also against the reception directive, which is in effect. that is why we say that the member states and the union must help greece: it’s not the fault of greece; it is our responsibility. that is why we adopted the asylum and migration integration fund, which provides for relocation, provides for reunification of families, and provides for protecting children. but more than that, in the mid-term we need to adopt the european common asylum system, work on the same, and dublin, with binding solidarity among member states and relocation programmes funded by the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the best interests of the child should always be taken into account in all actions undertaken by the european union and its member states. the particularly difficult situation in which many young migrants find themselves is morally unacceptable and, despite the continuing efforts of the greek government and the greek people, emergency measures are again necessary. i would like to point out that situations which have been repeated with the same intensity for a long time can no longer be described as urgent or emergency, but have unfortunately become structural. we must put an end to the hypocrisy of those who do not realise, even here in europe, that we must take joint initiatives to stop the departure of irregular migrants and concentrate our efforts, including and above all financial, on creating the economic and social conditions so that everyone can stay in their own country instead of seeking their fortune elsewhere. only then will the european union be able to show that it is in fact in solidarity with those who are in real need.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, transport and mobility are the lifeblood of our economy. the right to safe, efficient and sustainable transport is fundamental and the european union must do everything possible to guarantee it at affordable prices that allow the free movement of people and goods. i would like to take this opportunity of the debate on the european union's mobility and transport strategy for 2030 to remind the european commission that there are some european regions where it is necessary to make the missing links and eliminate the existing bottlenecks that still hinder the proper functioning of the internal market. sicily is characterised by its insularity and by the objective economic disadvantage for its businesses and citizens. for this reason, the european union must support the effective recognition of territorial continuity in air transport and finance the investment for the construction of the bridge over the straits of messina as a necessary and indispensable infrastructure for the rail link within the european ten-t corridor.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 january in italy thousands of vat agents left their businesses closed and took to the streets in rome to protest and say enough, especially against an unfair and oppressive tax. the total taxation exceeds 60%, and is forcing many businesses to close. it is enough to think that in recent years the number of small and mediumsized enterprises and professionals has decreased by almost 40%. in 2018, italians paid 33 billion more in taxes than the european average, and this is a difference of almost 2% of gdp. it is clear that what is happening in italy is putting at risk the fairness of the tax systems in the member states and the growth policy of the whole european union. it is therefore essential that the commission should intervene and grant italy greater flexibility in order to avoid the end and above all the death of the vat items in this world which is the fabric of italy's production.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 is a crucial year for the european union. the commission will face major challenges: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the following: the commission will have only eleven months to finalise the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. i think it is absolutely essential to ensure that the competitiveness of our small and mediumsized enterprises is protected during the negotiations and that the pdo and pgi marks of our high-quality products are recognised. as regards the next multiannual financial framework, the commission has proposed to double the budget for the erasmus programme to eur 30 billion. president von der leyen, in proposing to double the budget for the erasmus programme, is she aware of the commitment she has made to the citizens? promises are easy to make but difficult to keep, as we say in our country, "between saying and doing there is a sea".
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express our solidarity with our spanish colleagues and with the whole of spain for the catastrophic floods which they have suffered in recent weeks. i would like to stress, in my capacity as rapporteur for our group on the eu civil protection mechanism, the importance of working on the prevention of natural disasters. it can, but above all it must, be done through a new culture of anticipation and prevention, through innovative but also long-term strategies that can help us avoid, or at least reduce, the human and/or social costs caused by these dramatic catastrophes. another key factor is the proper training of staff, citizens and civil protection volunteers, and in this respect we support the proposals made in the new regulation. i would like to conclude by thanking those volunteers who every day make themselves available and respond with a ready hand when these disasters occur.
madam president, i did not vote in favour of the resolution on the possibility of regulating the production of chargers for mobile radio equipment, such as our smartphones, because i believe that this would undermine the freedom of choice of the consumer. furthermore, let me kindly express a methodological consideration. the european union, if it is to assume a leading role in the geopolitical chessboard, must realise that its role is not to interfere with the free initiative of those who are the real producers of wealth - and i am talking about businesses - but to break down the barriers to the circulation of european ideas and goods. so let us not follow the false idols of environmental populism, but let us take the path to environmental protection through policies based on evidence and the scientific method.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the scale of european values, equality between men and women is second only to the protection of human rights. we still have to change the perception that it is the women's responsibility to take care of the children and the elderly in support of the family, or that it is not important. this cultural revolution would allow women to participate more in the economy, and thus foster its growth. i did not vote for this resolution because, although in a spirit of solidarity, it proposes specific commission measures on wages and on areas of competence of the member states, including small and mediumsized enterprises. the burden of the gender pay gap should not be borne by companies alone, especially small and medium-sized ones, but should be supported by a universal cultural shift. we should not only talk about the pay gap, but also and above all about equal treatment and policies that promote greater inclusion of women in the world of work.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must congratulate commissioner gentiloni sincerely, because it is not easy to speak for ten minutes without saying anything at all. not that i'm surprised, because i remember his government, but i have to say that he looked like the last of the bureaucrats, the classic pd who comes to europe to take orders from others, i mean. now comes yet another con with the approval of the state-saving fund, with the complicity of the democratic party and the five star movement. the italian parliament has spoken out against it, conte has acted alone, he has decided to go ahead anyway, without any mandate, solely to save his own seat, selling out our sovereignty. the last one promised changes that we know perfectly well will never come. a highly indebted country like italy would have no convenience to draw from the fund. we will be like blood donors, fully aware that we are not entitled to a drop of blood even at the end of life. i wonder, commissioner, why no country can have a positive trade balance of more than 6% of gdp on average over the last three years, but germany can decide to systematically violate this figure? it's like being in a europe that's only sheriff when it suits you, practically, only when it suits you. italy has been blackmailed for years for a little flexibility. then we'll fight on the state-saving fund. we will fight against an attack on democracy and the savings of the italian people, which we certainly cannot support.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission's political offer to the western balkans is commendable, but it is also a declaration of failure of previous actions, namely the absence of reforms in these states within the framework of the rule of law, the only safeguard of democracy. unemployment, economic deficits and internal and external imbalances expose the region to adverse economic shocks. but is the rule of law just a parameter or is it rather a statement that guarantees the stability of inclusion and coexistence in an expanded system among us? is that enough for the particularities of albania? at war with itself, between corruption, secularism and a non-existent democratic culture, sophisticated criminal organizations, gaps that are unbridgeable today. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, is trying to propose a method but fails to address the merits of the matter. the method was the apparent reason why the negotiations with albania and north macedonia were interrupted a few months ago, but we all know that the future prospects for the accession of these states were a cause for concern. in all this, the commission's proposal merely mentions the problem of security, in contrast to the clear mandate given us by the european citizens to protect and defend europe. in conclusion, commissioner, i do not think it is enough to support the mere promotion of reforms, because the european union will not be able to deal with the many uncertainties of the western balkans in the process. the irreversibility of the rule of law as the cornerstone of the enlargement process must be guaranteed with certainty.
in writing. appreciated in its intent, commissioner várhelyi's proposal to revise the enlargement methodology to increase credibility and give new impetus to the eu-western balkans agenda is still lacking. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a good one. the commission should say, possibly before the opening of the negotiations with albania and north macedonia and before the zagreb summit, how to involve the member states more concretely, through what instruments and operating methods; it should also clarify how to make the requirement that citizens appreciate the benefits of eu membership effective. this is the decisive point of any stable and lasting membership. the commission should focus on substance rather than method. the process of changing the legal systems of the western balkan countries towards the real protection of fundamental freedoms is still lagging behind, but the subjects for discussion announced by the commission are not security, the rule of law, the fight against organised crime and all forms of trafficking, which are the issues that our citizens are asking for as an absolute priority. the commission cannot fail to discuss with the applicants the same commitments on the environment and combating climate change as those made by the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has done little to create links between the financing needs of small and mediumsized enterprises and the financial instruments guaranteed by the european union. moreover, most beneficiaries are not aware of the financial instruments guaranteed by the union and the commission has limited knowledge of the financial needs of beneficiaries. this is stated by the european court of auditors in its report no. 02 of 2020 published on 22 january 2020. the debate on better regulation for small and mediumsized enterprises requires a thorough knowledge of the business sector, which is particularly lacking today. our small and mediumsized enterprises do not need more regulation, but a reduction in administrative burdens, financial instruments to support their competitiveness and adequate trade defence measures against social and environmental dumping. more tax relief is needed on socio-environmental investments to adapt its structures. a consistent response to the new needs of the business system is needed to ensure that businesses operate in a stable regulatory and economic environment, addressing the factors that hamper growth and innovation, reducing red tape and improving efficiency. this is a small business owner: more action and less talk.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i see a lot of hypocrisy. the resolution of tomorrow is a text which is probably very well done, but our brussels chamber, where we met two weeks ago, is still wet with the tears of many of you. i see a schizophrenic attitude even in the words used by the president of the commission, who keeps insisting on calling friends, friends, friends those whom you have tried to humiliate for three years. because we're talking about three lost years, because we could have been a lot further along if someone hadn't pretended that brexit never happened, that the british people were wrong. so let's talk about standards, but tomorrow you're voting on a trade agreement with an asian country that is a long way from the standards you're asking britain to meet. so you just have to hope that they don't make the deal with the us first, that they substitute our products, and you have to listen to our manufacturers who export so much to britain. the time lost in these years is their loss and it is all your responsibility.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the free trade agreement with vietnam includes a chapter covering the important trade in fish products that already exists between the two partners. we have worked with our colleagues on the committee on fisheries on an opinion which would not be limited to a passive acceptance of the agreement but which could contribute to the debate in parliament, raising the bar and setting precise priorities. vietnam has undoubtedly made significant efforts to bring its fisheries sector into line with our standards and has shown that it is willing to continue to work to improve the existing situation in the future. at the same time, there is no denying the many shortcomings that still persist, particularly in the area of illegal fishing. that is why we in the committee on fisheries have asked the european commission to remain vigilant and vigilant to ensure that vietnam continues the efforts already undertaken and at the same time to use all the means at its disposal, including the red card in case vietnam does not comply with the conditions for sustainable development agreed with the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must use the right words to comment on what the european commission says. lie . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the risk sector in italy and europe in general has also been hit. shame on you! it is a shame, because many people have said that human rights are not respected in vietnam, social standards are very low. another trade agreement that will promote wage competition downwards and our workers know it. what a hypocrite! hypocrisy because the green new deal which you want to impose on our companies and which will cost them a great deal of money, obviously cannot be imposed on vietnam and vietnam will be careful not to go in that direction, however, with standards which you perhaps intend to ask britain to respect, and instead you have no problem, in your failed trade policy, to make agreements with countries which are very far from any level of social and environmental protection.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madame lagarde, i think price stability was and remains the primary objective of the ecb. you cannot have price stability without financial stability; financial stability is a precondition for price stability. now what do we see in the world and in europe today? extreme low interest rates, strongly-reduced credit spreads, softened credit terms, feverish mergers and acquisition activity, high levels of speculative ipos, spectacular growth of shadow banking, equity valuations totally out of line with historic price-earnings ratios, and usd 15 trillion of negative-yielding debt. i think it’s fair to say, if you see those eight developments all together, that financial stability is under a lot of pressure – and that’s an understatement. unconventional monetary policies have been contributing to these developments and so should really be, basically, fundamentally reconsidered.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mrs lagarde, we welcome you to the plenary, and so do you, mr dombrovskis. i think that the main culprit behind the concerns of the european parliament is absent from this debate. the council is the great brake on what we have to do; it is the governments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european central bank is calling for edis, the commission is proposing it and the majority in the european parliament wants it. and the danger is not just the economic slowdown. the danger is a new economic crisis, mrs lagarde. ten years after the crisis that broke out in the united states, the united states has recovered and we are still discussing the enhanced framework of economic governance that will deepen economic policy and monetary integration and make the european union and the eurozone stronger. that's missing too. just as the financial means to implement the green deal are lacking. because 'again' the council wants to cut the financial budget for the new multiannual framework, unlike the european parliament which is asking for more money to reduce inequalities, to invest in tackling the climate crisis, to keep cohesion policy and to get ahead with investments in innovation. the report by mr mavridis is therefore an opportunity to see what needs to change in order to bring those who are putting the brakes on to bear.
mr president, i would like to wholeheartedly thank ms lagarde, and congratulate the european central bank (ecb) and its new leadership for, may i say, finally taking the climate and environmental risks as economic risks, as financial stability risks and, hopefully, also as systemic risks to be judged by the systemic risk board in the future. i am very happy to hear that that is going to be reflected in the ecb’s strategy review, and i am looking forward to that. i hope that will be reflected in all of the ecb’s market operation that these substantial amount of financial flows we have to use either against or for the environment. also, i’m glad to hear that the commission is moving rapidly with the sustainable finance package and a plea for both actors: please ensure that indicators, the metering system and the lifecycle analyses there is harmonised and, overall, used in the same methodology in different institutions so that we duly know what we are doing.
mr president, this report to the european parliament expresses its support for the ecb’s monetary policy and recognises that the measures implemented are consistent with its mandate, and have been decisive in preserving the euro area from deflation and also in contributing to the ongoing economic recovery. i challenge anyone to prove that today we’d be better off had we adopted different policies. but many of the challenges we face today are new and they require further innovation in the way monetary policy is conducted. madame lagarde, you mentioned many of those: climate change, digitalisation... i would also add economic inequalities, especially in certain areas. all of these factors will have a significant structural impact on the way the economy works. they will affect key economic variables, financial stability and the effectiveness of monetary policy. to fulfil its mandate of delivering price stability, the ecb will better understand how the changing climate, technological innovation and economic inequalities will affect the behaviour of households, firms and financial institutions. the ecb has the analytical capacity and resources to push the frontier of knowledge on these issues and we are definitely keen to do our part.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president lagarde, when you read the ecb's annual reports, you see the constant praise of negative rates as the best strategy for boosting the euro area economy. does he not think that the continuation of this policy of negative rates has had the deleterious effect of bringing the commercial banks, the real driving force for small and mediumsized enterprises as well as for households, to their knees, reducing the margins of intermediation to a minimum, and thus the incentive to grant credit, paradoxically favouring the commercial banks, precisely those with the most speculative activity? furthermore, does he not think that, after extraordinary operations such as qe, which increased the european central bank's budget to more than eur 4.65 trillion, exploding the m3 money supply, without however reaching, if only marginally, the real economy or the inflation target, resulting in a state of permanent deflation, the time has come to consider "helicopter money" strategies to boost consumption, given the catastrophic data on industrial production recorded in the euro area?
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable vice-president and also high representative, this is a particularly sensitive debate. as the european union we have an obligation to clarify our position, especially since belgium, estonia and germany, as non-permanent members, are joining france in the united nations security council. with brexit, we are called upon to pursue a foreign policy action that is both new and forward-looking, in a 21st century geopolitics, which goes from the protection of european security, the great issue of immigration, energy, climate change, 5g to european investment in those countries. the lisbon treaty gives it the task of promoting peace and security in the world. and so, with regard to the middle east, i invite you to consider three main elements: the existential threat to the state of israel is more present than ever, and this is unacceptable. israel is primarily a jewish nation state. we europeans are jews at our deepest roots. do not miss, mr high representative, your most important opportunity to show where europe stands.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we're glad you're standing right here with a big heart for this new assignment. europe, africa, we are partners. and we are in a community of destiny, and we will face our problems together in the next few years or we will both fail. that's why the first consequence is a partnership on an equal footing. but when we say that, we mean not short-term national interests, not even supposed short-term european interests, but a partnership for good education. yes, let the girls go to school - especially the girls, for at least ten years - so that they can help their country; healthcare for all, good work - and that's more than employability - good work to build the countries, to develop sustainable societies, in europe as well as in africa. this is our job, and we want to contribute to it wholeheartedly and support you to the best of our ability.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the congo is the first french-speaking country in the world. among the most widely spoken languages in africa are portuguese, french and english. the european union is also by far africa's leading trade and development partner. we have already established extremely close links as the european union. however, relying on the status quo could prove extremely counterproductive. what we need is a comprehensive strategy covering the political, security, development and economic as well as trade areas. a real strategy of this scale must set clear objectives over time and a roadmap to achieve them. in fact, it was the transposition, in a certain sense, of the delors method which, in the 1990s, enabled the european union to make considerable progress in our relations with the african continent. today, development in africa is clearly conditioned by the africans themselves, but also increasingly by china, india and russia, which are forging ever closer economic, political and military links. it is against this backdrop that the european union's cooperation with africa must be affirmed. why not have a common security approach that would allow the african union to sit on the un security council? why not agree now on a common approach to climate change? what is the final stage in the process of establishing trade cooperation aimed at the establishment of a free trade area between the economic union and the african union? africa must develop itself, of course, which does not exclude the sharing of our experiences.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, it is no coincidence that, at the turning point of brexit, london launched its uk-africa summit on 20 january. this initiative is a reminder of the danger that the european union is losing ground in this area, deprived of its british ally, a major diplomatic and commercial player on the continent. similar summits are increasingly taking place in russia, china and japan, with canadian prime minister justin trudeau's african tour last week. in this context, vague promises of a partnership of equals come a little late, especially since, from unfair fisheries agreements to the desire for increased political interference in africa, nothing confirms this so-called new diplomatic and commercial start. but what is most dismaying is the wait on the migration emergency, which is crucial for so many europeans. the oral question even argued for the extension of the erasmus programme, which is well known to open up a new channel of immigration from africa. in short, the union is about to repeat the failure of cotonou, with a lost decade in the making.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! commissioner, what we urgently need is a new strategy for the union of acp states. we should face new challenges, especially the problem of migration. young people are migrating from africa and other acp countries because they have limited access to education, to personal development, to a decent life. so today we should ask ourselves a question and seek an answer. what do young people in acp countries need? first of all, a good education. the best investment is the investment in education. inadequate access to it is a real obstacle to economic development and poverty eradication. so let's invest in education and encourage entrepreneurship among young people. let's give them access to microcredit. the european union should establish a simple, simple, effective mechanism to enable young people to set up businesses in their home countries. they want to build the prosperity of their homeland.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, it is clear that the european union needs a new strategy for africa. the problem is that europe seems to want a strategy that responds to the interests of its multinationals and political elites and not to the development goals and interests of the african social majorities. why would you do that? let's not cheat each other. migration, security, trade or investment are really the geopolitical agenda of the european union. what africa and europe need is a lasting relationship based on human rights, social development and environmental sustainability. and to do that, these types of strategies cannot be tools of european trade or security interests, but we have to turn our policies around 180 degrees, so that they are consistent from a rights approach. let us start by practicing fair trade with africa, by opening up legal and safe pathways for migration and by requiring european companies to meet their tax obligations and to respect labour and human rights.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the european commission's choice to assert itself as a geopolitical commission and to choose relations with africa to demonstrate this choice in practice. the european union needs to continue to play its role as a multilateral power promoting partnerships among equals in order to position itself successfully in the changing geopolitical environment. the strategic partnership with africa must include the tools to respond to the aspirations of the peoples within a framework of respect for human rights. to be aligned with the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all their dimensions. empower and strengthen civil society. ensure consistency and close alignment of this strategy with the post-cotonou agreement, of which it is one of the pillars, and ensure the enhancement and involvement of parliaments, in particular by maintaining the parliamentary dimension of the acp-eu partnership and the european parliament's relations with the pan-african parliament. this is a path of success that we will tread together.
madam president, commissioner, since the end of the colonial period and the independence of the african countries, the union has increased the number of cooperation agreements with africa. we have, of course, had the yaoundé and lomé agreements, the cotonou agreement and so on, but most of these agreements, let us admit, were certainly of a nature to define our relationship with africa, but above all often there to maintain our influence and our interests on the continent. the balance sheet, after half a century of cooperation, is not bright. it's not brilliant if you look at the development indicators, if you look at economic diversification, if you look at inequality, or if you look at security on the african continent. i am far from abandoning our relationship with africa, and i welcome the initiative of the future eu-africa strategy, but it goes without saying that we must be more consistent and more transparent. consistency in the different instruments we have, and that is the work we have to do in the ndci, but also consistency in our policies. we can no longer, for example, defend a trade relationship which does not promote regional development and which destroys local agriculture for the benefit of european farmers. it will also require transparency and governance, so yes to an african union strategy, but avoiding the mistakes of the past.
madam president, madam commissioner, the african continent is not only the continent of immigration, it is the continent of the future, of young people and women, who are stepping ever stronger and stepping ever further. i think this new strategy with europe has to be a green strategy. the fight against climate change and clean energy must be at the heart of our new relationship with the african continent. in the last century, africa has contributed only 2 percent of global warming emissions. today, however, it is suffering the worst consequences. the effects of climate change are real, and it is precisely in africa that the greatest number of people die as a result of droughts and floods. so, adaptation, resilience, clean energy, renewable energy have to occupy a central element in our new relationship. europe needs more resources, but above all it needs more responsibility on the part of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate a single word has been repeated over and over again: the word "migration". while recognising its scale and the challenges that go with it, i am convinced that social, economic and democratic development is and should be the priority objective. reducing it to a mere means of curbing migration is what makes our strategy weak, hypocritical and ineffective. peace, rights and development are the dna of the european union. let us share them with the african people and avoid the mistakes of the past. european funds must be invested in the growth of the continent and not in funding the camps that stain our conscience. the year 2020 could and should be the year of the turning point in relations between the european union and africa. i'd like to end with the words of nelson mandela: "no one is born a slave or a master, nor to live in misery, but we are all born to be brothers".
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been enough to have been in this chamber two hours ago to have heard words of hatred and anti-semitism. two hours ago the people of israel were accused of: apartheid, exploitation of the palestinians, violent annexation, violation of human rights, violation of international law, war crimes. the same people who are hiding the responsibility of islamic radicalism for most of the anti-semitic attacks in europe are saying this, the same people who are denying the jewish people the right to practice their religious traditions in europe. then perhaps goldschmidt is right, the president of the conference of european rabbis, who a few weeks ago in italy said: "today we have the biggest problems on the left, this is the big news on the anti-semitism front".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the history of the western world has shown that anti-semitism is a sundial of the decline of a society and a harbinger of its collapse. anyone who cares about the society in which they live should fight anti-semitism. the fight against anti-semitism must include the defence of the state of israel in its territorial, political and religious integrity, since israel is the bulwark of democratic freedoms in the middle east. the contribution of the judeo-christian tradition to the formation of western european culture and civilization has been fundamental. the fight against anti-semitism therefore means not only defending israel, which is at the same time the homeland of judaism and the guardian of christian memory, but also defending the european union itself against islamic terrorism, religious fundamentalism and any illiberal and anti-democratic movement.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the illegal trade in puppies must not continue to line the pockets of organised crime, undermining public health and, above all, the welfare of animals. according to coldiretti, there are more than 400 000 puppies and kittens in italy who are victims of traffickers, with a turnover of about 300 million euros a year. recently, italian police in friuli venezia giulia uncovered a real gang that was trafficking in puppies from eastern europe, transported in horrible conditions, taken from their mothers prematurely. a resolution providing for a mandatory identification system and the strengthening of sanctions is therefore needed in order to effectively combat the deplorable practice of the illegal trade in puppies. the regulation is therefore welcome, but above all crossborder cooperation between the customs authorities of the european countries is needed to combat this illegal traffic which is so harmful to us, but much more so to our dear four-legged friends.
madam president! first of all, if there are countries in the european council that don't want to contribute more than 1% of their national income to the budget, but want to see a federal europe evolve, then it's worth remembering that it won't work. unfortunately, the budgetary spending debates are a battle of the sexes: old policies like cohesion and agriculture versus new, more ambitious ones that need more money. although, if we look at, for example, the research and development of the military industry, it would be better to finance it from national budgets, because it would still be money that would be limited to certain countries. but, returning to cohesion, if we imagine: a new ambitious citizen of a cohesion country in the european union learns that his cohesion envelope will be 25% smaller in this new perspective than in the old one, then he will leave. he will go to the development centres in western europe, and with that the demographic situation and development opportunities in the periphery of the cohesion countries will be even worse than they are now, and demography in general.
madam president, the person preparing the budget of the european union for the next seven years is the president of the european council, charles michel. he has to be in parliament. if he has no mandate, if he has nothing to tell us, at least he should come and listen. why? because the last word on the eu budget for the next seven years lies with the european parliament. we will only give our approval to the eu budget if our priorities are in. and what are our priorities? firstly, cohesion and agriculture: finance them properly, they continue to be important all over europe. secondly, finance the new priorities of the union, in line with the political ambition. the commission asks for support in financing future-oriented priorities. let me tell you what happened to the budget for research this year. the council says research is important. what does it do? it cuts it by eur 500 million. parliament says research is important, but we increased it by eur 700 million. we need to put our money where our statements are, and we should not play farmers against erasmus students. we should not play researchers against the security of the european union. and let’s be honest: the position of the european parliament is the only position which enables us to finance properly what we have agreed to do. it’s the only position which enables the von der leyen commission to implement its programme. dear colleagues, the parliament can be included in the negotiations before the european council on 20 february. or we can reject the agreement of the council and we should be included afterwards, but we prefer it to be included before. and let me say very clearly, if we are to choose between a delay of two months and a poor budget for the union for the next seven years, we will choose to reject a bad council compromise and have a delay of two months. but we are ready to negotiate since november 2018. council, stop dragging your feet.
madam president, it is really time to stand up and act and the multiannual financial framework is really the last opportunity we have to change europe for the next seven years and to shock our european citizens – yes, to shock them, to shock every single person in the eu – because we have to increase the total amount of available resources, not renounce it to 1.3 of gni in order for our promises to become true: a green new deal, the additional unemployment benefit and the child guarantee of six billion. no one dares to take away from children what are their basic rights – food, health and education – and the traditional mainstream european programmes have to be financed as well, so we cannot deal with a war between the poor – agricultural policies, cohesion policies, erasmus, have to be financed as well. and on the revenue side, let us think also of a digital tax and the common consolidated corporate tax for multinationals. on this side of the hemicycle we believe in more europe and not less. we believe in more public investments and not in cutting down and downsizing. we believe in a good society which is a society for the many and not for the few, so the european council has to listen to our voice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every seven years we see this game of cards, where on the one hand there are the pragmatic, the realistic, those who have to make up their minds, and on the other hand there are some tobacco salesmen who pretend to be ambitious. but these days, it's realism that counts. this morning, frankly, i heard little of realism. i've heard good news from the night of a thousand and one nights. i have heard rumours of a budget that would reduce inequality, pollution, unemployment - a long and expensive wish list. but those who have the capacity to administer the public good start thinking about waste and inefficiency first. for years now, we have been stressing the need to give priority to the most effective budgetary policies, from enterprise to agriculture, research and innovation. but when it comes to cutting funds for the external action service, for example, which is a useless duplication of national embassies, or cutting contributions to turkey, for which the european union has become the atm, this house suddenly turns a deaf ear.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of 5g, some areas in the french periphery still have no access to the digital world. what has the european union done? in these and many other areas it is far behind and its present functioning does not allow it to serve the nations. the european union is a global community of nations, and its citizens are the most important citizens in the world. the european union is operating on a basis of free trade which is becoming less and less fair and less and less equal. the social europe we want is a coordination between the european nations and equality between the territories. we do not want the globalism advocated at this assembly, which concentrates all its activities in a few cities, we do not want it, we do not want it any more. we oppose your ultra-liberalism and fair trade. we oppose your urban concentration to the local proximity. all this in a democratic and modern europe, which relies on digital technology to make people and nations shine, failing to submit to the european union and its commission.
madam president, today we can recognize the importance of digital technologies in our lives, the impact on our productive and social model. states will have to take important decisions to prepare for this transition. digitalization cannot lead to dehumanization. we are facing a new model of work. we should prevent automation from causing the disappearance of a large number of jobs. the training of young people and workers must be adapted to new occupations with agility and flexibility. we must ensure that workers are properly and effectively protected against these new challenges, while at the same time promoting the competitiveness of our enterprises, their investment and their growth. we have a great opportunity to revitalise rural and depopulated areas by giving their inhabitants access to digitalisation, to achieve greater economic, social and territorial cohesion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must ensure that no one is left behind in the opportunities offered by the digital revolution. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and has also set up a number of working groups to examine the impact of the digital economy on the quality of life of citizens. we have created oligopolies which in the european tradition of free competition must be regulated, ensuring that the digital giants pay their taxes and avoiding excessive concentrations and a type of unfair competition, i am thinking especially of digital trade in relation to the traditional economy. the commission has also proposed that the in the coming years, we should be able to use digital to better protect health, to implement agricultural production and to certify the origin and quality of our products and to fight fake news, because it's true that a lie on the web can travel faster, but it can also be unmasked just as quickly, and we have a duty to create structures and systems that can do this in a fast, continuous and effective way.
madam president, technology is changing the way we work, study and train. it is also creating new types of jobs and connectivity gives us new opportunities, but it also means new challenges for us. the work-life balance directive that i successfully negotiated in the last legislature addresses all these developments. it will make it easier for women to enter and stay in the workforce to reduce unemployment as well as to reduce the severe gender pay and pension gap we have. i welcome the commission's commitment to making the strategy, because we are facing psychological challenges in relation to the use of mobile phones and laptops. the right to disconnect should be part of this process. for these new risks european workers must be protected and we must have new safeguards. and we must be at the forefront of ensuring that rights are accessible to all.
(beginning of the speech without a microphone) ... will be to maintain european social and democratic values in the new digital age of the internet and the thousand applications and to show that the citizen is the end of everything. that is our challenge, but it is not a given. new tools will not automatically make this leap in quality. we need policy, good policy, to guide us and to set the right rules. in fact, there will be no real digital justice if citizens and workers do not have training and updating for their skills, as the commissioner said, for the new jobs, for which we should guarantee rights and fair working conditions, i am thinking in particular of workers on the platforms. there will be no digital social justice if we do not set minimum rules of legal responsibility for those online operators who have enormous and worrying market and financial power and who must not become absolute masters of the available data. there will be no digital social justice if the web giants do not pay taxes on profits made in europe, and here we are still waiting for a decision from the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the internet in general has gone from being a simple communication infrastructure to a mass phenomenon of sociological interest. we are living in an era of digital transformation that is changing our habits, undeniably simplifying our daily lives but hiding some aspects that if not constantly monitored can have negative repercussions. the ease with which any type of content can be shared and accessed is a very powerful weapon for those who want to take advantage of situations that are not regulated and are easily manipulated. we must therefore commit ourselves to constant monitoring of all those technological applications, as well as of digital content, which could endanger individual freedom. it is therefore vital that the legal system should provide clear rules guaranteeing the freedom of the citizen, so that it is not sacrificed by mere artificial rules.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we support the importance of gender equality as a common value. if we are to be consistent, we are working to promote it in all the policies of the european union, as well as in parliament, but as a cultural revolution and not as a tax act. barriers to women's participation in the workforce have particularly high costs for well-being and growth. removing obstacles is important. research by the european institute for gender equality shows that gender equality would promote economic growth. but does the institute also monetize the role of women in the reconciliation of family and work? improvements in gender equality would create over ten million additional job opportunities in europe and gdp per capita would grow by almost 10% by 2050. but what balance for families? gender equality will also have to be promoted in the context of the new eu policies digital single market, green deal and artificial intelligence in which the employment gap is even more dramatic. now a new commissioner with an exclusive mandate on equal opportunities will have to change the management of previous equal opportunities policies, also because the european court of auditors will examine the integration of the gender dimension in the eu budget and, according to what has been made public today, the audit report will be released in spring 2021. we shall then see what effect the policies of the von der leyen commission have on the world of women.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, women are a mystery, and they have made an immense contribution to the history of human generations, because of their mission and vocation to serve humanity and life, because of their daily contribution of sensitivity, intuition, dedication and generosity to the family and to civil life, and because of the development of a culture capable of combining reason with the feeling that is characteristic of femininity, with which women enrich our understanding of the world and contribute to the full authenticity of human relations. the dignity of the individual is constantly reflected in the tireless struggle for equal rights for all, and there is no doubt that there are still many obstacles to their full realization. the growth of real women's empowerment is a matter that can no longer be postponed. and this is for all those women who silently, with sacrifice, commit themselves and hope, while being aware that they live in a complex hostile reality, the same reality that subjects them to injustice on merit, to mistreatment, and that often fails to protect even their lives. violence and injustice against women are fed by the lack of awareness, stereotypes, loneliness, indifference, ignorance and the sleep of conscience. we therefore welcome the european commission's initiative to propose a strategy for gender equality, which should contain strong commitments, clear indicators and a monitoring mechanism to hold accountable... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its member states have been engaged in the fight for gender equality for years, but the results to date show that the policies put in place have not been sufficient to overcome the economic, social and cultural damage generated by this discrimination against women. the reason is very simple, because the economic and productive world has never wanted to intervene in a convinced way in the workplace where discrimination is systematically and daily applied. we therefore welcome this gender equality strategy, provided it is innovative in relation to the major changes taking place, such as the industrial and digital revolution, which, if not managed well, will surely increase the disparities between men and women. we must therefore devote to this strategy all the resources and policies we can to end all forms of discrimination against women in the workplace and in their retention in the labour market. as european institutions, together with civil society, we must do everything we can to put an end to this physical and psychological violence against women once and for all. commissioner dalli, if the strategy is up to all these challenges, we will support it and together we will win these battles which are about civilization, but above all about social justice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about gender equality, you should know that in my country, italy, only 4% of the ceos are women, despite the fact that the level of education is very high. there has been talk in this house of wage differentials, no doubt, but i do not think that quotas are the solution. i don't want to be called a panda or something to protect because i'm a woman. i claim the right to be valued for my abilities and my competence and, if i am better than a man, to be paid more, not in the same way. so i would like to conclude by saying that i would like to avoid this continuing campaign by men and women to predict quotas or in any way to treat women as if they were a reserve. instead, we should continue to promote the idea of women as people and then really value their abilities and reward them where they deserve it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago a woman lawyer who defended the right of her fellow countrymen not to wear the veil was sentenced in iran. she was sentenced to 33 years in prison and 148 lashes. but there are also serious incidents in europe. in milan, my hometown, last year, a 15-year-old girl was violently beaten by her family because she didn't want to wear the veil; another pregnant girl was kicked in the stomach and lost her baby because she was hot and didn't want to wear the veil. in france too, you will remember the incident of the two women who were beaten because they wanted to go around in shorts. so, as the european parliament is rushing to set the priorities for the 64th session of the un for the status of women, i would like europe to stop this hypocritical looking the other way, not seeing that certain attitudes are obviously also linked to a certain culture and religion.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs metsola for her work. in recent years we have seen a marked increase in document fraud in the schengen area, both through the falsification of genuine documents and the use of counterfeit documents. this measure will allow us to frame the management of the system for online forged and authentic documents, known as fado, within frontex, whose management model is now obsolete. the need for protection and security that our citizens demand of us requires us to ensure a very high level of alert against false documents, as criminal instruments suitable for reuse for various crimes, including money laundering and terrorism, but above all illegal immigration. in fact, forged documents have often been used by asylum seekers trying to enter europe. these are behaviours which we cannot tolerate and which must be stopped. it is therefore essential to provide the police, border guards and customs with a more efficient database, capable of allowing for the rapid identification of falsified documents and an effective fight against these phenomena. for these reasons we support the proposal, despite our expressed disagreement with the fact that some private parties have access to fado, even if only to a limited extent. although we are against the reform of the frontex agency regulation, we believe that the importance of fado in the anti-fraud activities carried out by the authorities of the member states is now overwhelming.
mr. president, forging documents is a proven method for criminals and terrorists to stay under the radar. we see that frontex is already detecting some 7 000 cases a year and that number has only increased in the schengen area in recent times. this is a matter of concern, for where false documents are used, our security is at stake. it is therefore crucial that police and border guards throughout europe can check the authenticity of documents from other member states, that they are aware of the technical specifications of those documents from other countries, and that counterfeits circulating in the eu are really widely known. there is a real european added value in this: sharing information between member states, ensuring that that information is always up to date and ensuring that that information is accessible and available to all 24/7. this new system is therefore a very welcome new system and very necessary, because in the field of security too we are stronger together than alone. i congratulate roberta metsola on the excellent result, together with her colleagues, and i look forward to seeing the system actually working in practice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against false documents and their circulation in the schengen area is now a priority for the european union in the context of cooperation between law enforcement authorities and in the fight against criminal organizations. however, effective enforcement requires a constant exchange of information, not only between the authorities of the eu countries but also, with due regard for personal data, with the european institutions, third countries and private entities such as airlines, which can contribute to the proper functioning of the fado system. in fact, numerous investigations by europol have repeatedly shown that false documents are often the means used by criminal organisations to commit other, much more serious crimes, such as human trafficking, migrant smuggling or even preparing terrorist attacks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this crime. the commission is therefore pleased that the regulation transfers the responsibility for the system for handling false and authentic documents from the council to frontex, thereby completing the legislative reform of the agency, which will, however, have to be followed by a proper and complete implementation in order to make the rules so far approved really effective. i therefore thank mrs metsola for her work and i hope that this measure will be supported by the widest possible consensus in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are voting on is technical in nature, but there are at least two political aspects i should like to stress. firstly, document fraud is a serious threat to us all and the cooperation between the member states which is inherent in the fado system is a clear success, one of those cases where the concept of 'more europe' is being declined in a functional rather than instrumental way. the second policy element, which is unfortunately much less positive, can be summed up in the definition of 'data minimisation'. the restrictions introduced for the retrieval of personal data represent a missed opportunity to effectively counter organised crime and irregular immigration. the left in this parliament has once again shown its disconnection from reality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is guilty, hypocritical and cowardly when it comes to immigrants, refugees and their conditions in reception centres. guilty because thanks to the policies of unbridled immigration and acceptance at all costs, they have in fact come to us in desperation, forced to survive in the camps, to camp in the suburbs and often even to commit crimes. it is hypocritical, because you are tearing your clothes off about the conditions of immigrants, but then you leave the mediterranean countries alone. i wonder: why don't you support the port rotation? why don't you do something to stop landings, and therefore also and above all to stop departures? it's cowardly because you applaud carola rackete and the ngos here, but in fact you support those who favor the divers. the only one with a clear vision is called matteo salvini. we repeat: stop illegal immigration, fight traffickers and end the business of hospitality!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking forward to the farm to fork plan and i would therefore like to raise a few questions. for example, the reduction of fertilisers is only called for 'if necessary', but we believe that it is an unquestionable necessity. the obligation to reduce food waste and to meet european standards, which is instead provided for in the green new deal, is also missing. we also call for a reference to the single sustainable labelling, not the nutri-score aberration but a labelling which correctly indicates the nutritional aspects and the environmental and social impact of each product and which takes into account the importance of the farmer's work. finally, we want to see more support for organic farming, which puts the farmer at the centre of the environmental clean-up process and highlights how organic farming can combat climate change, stimulates demand for organic products and supports farmers in joining the farm to fork. that is why i stress that it is our duty to secure the funds needed for the cap and then to manage it intelligently, perhaps also by making good on the mistakes of the past.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has presented the strategy called 'from the field to the table', which aims to make the european agri-food system a global benchmark in terms of sustainability. these objectives are: continue to ensure a high level of safety of agricultural products, production and marketing, ensure a fair income for farmers, safeguard biodiversity and ultimately reduce dependence on pesticides. i wonder: will products imported from the european union be subject to the same rules? and does the commission intend to impose it on our farmers? what action will be taken to combat social, wage and environmental dumping of agri-food products from third countries such as vietnam and cambodia? mr president, this is unfair competition. we must protect our farms, not for protectionism but for fairness and the health of our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in pursuit of greta you have devised a new programme: "farm to fork". a strategy that has as its sole pillar the idea of turning fishermen and farmers into a kind of climate watchdog, with controls and checks that remind us of a big green brother. among the various principles is that of having low-cost content, which obviously goes against the quality of food and instead favours industrial products. i read, by the way, that you want to include algae and insects as food, long live the quality of food! you said in one of your interviews that you are not totally opposed to the nutri-score system and that you are actually thinking of putting a new labelling right into farm to fork. do not dare to put in a new system that is discriminatory and misleading! we are tired of the fact that behind health and food safety you are always in fact favouring the multinationals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the farm-to-table strategy is widely shared by both farmers and consumers, especially in my own country, italy. on the other hand, it is not an economically neutral strategy. the right choice of sustainable agriculture weighs on the cost of production and consequently on the purchase price of products. i am thinking in particular of organic farming and the fight against intensive farming. that is why, without adequate economic support, without a cap that protects small and mediumsized farmers against large companies, we risk only environmental demagogy and nothing more. food labelling will also be decisive. the european union must not regard it as optional to inform consumers correctly about the geographical origins and nutritional properties of food. good work, commissioner.
in the name of the id group. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the commission's proposals. but do you realize that we are facing a truly extraordinary situation, comparable only to war? i am ashamed of this europe, which is totally incapable of responding adequately to an emergency of this magnitude. i am ashamed of a europe that has been discussing coronavirus for a month and does nothing: you have created a task force with five commissioners which has produced absolutely nothing. i am ashamed of a europe that is divided and certainly lagging behind. i am ashamed of an ineffective and absent europe: what does this institution look like in the face of so many doctors and nurses in the trenches of hospitals today? i am ashamed of a europe that does not have uniform protocols to deal with this epidemic: there are countries that have made more tampons than none. there are countries that use full transparency, and others that hide data or minimize it to avoid economic consequences. i am ashamed of a europe which abandons whole countries, such as italy, businesses, traders and citizens. i am very ashamed of the many countries that have blocked the export of intensive care equipment; i am ashamed of those countries which have ordered masks and medical supplies for italy. i'm ashamed that there's no solidarity in the emergency. i am ashamed of the speculators and i am also ashamed of the distribution chains that have demanded the "coronavirus free" label on italian food products. someone is clearly using the virus to wage a trade war on italian products. i am ashamed that, at a time of such emergency, there are euro-bureaucrats who are demanding the approval of the esm, instead of putting the coronavirus issue first. i am ashamed of a europe which, in response to italy's cry for help, only proposes a one-off deficit spending calculation. it's not enough! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i conclude: i'm ashamed of those who don't care about the impact on the tourism industry; i am ashamed of a europe which is supposed to provide a paltry sum. but i am also ashamed of those who say 'more europe' when there is no europe here! i am ashamed of a europe that is simply arguing when every day that is lost is a tragedy!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the data tells us that the epidemic we are experiencing is becoming an unprecedented global tragedy. if we do not act soon with strong, effective, proportionate and shared measures, the whole of europe will collapse. we are aware that the member states have competence in health matters but the union should ensure additional services for all european citizens, while today there are no common european minimum measures to stop the spread of the virus. the simple exchange of information between member states is no longer sufficient to resolve the emergency: we must therefore adopt a common health protocol to identify all those who are infected, and then put in place measures to prevent infection, manage the sick and ensure that everyone receives adequate care. do you know that at this hour doctors in italian hospitals are choosing which patients to treat because there are not enough beds in intensive care? and then i would ask the commission and all of us: but why don't we get the european scientific community together to find a common european vaccine? why are we waiting for the vaccine to be found and to be supplied to europe by china, the united states or israel? we must urgently put in place measures at european level to tackle this serious emergency together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, please tell president von der leyen that after the coronavirus, nothing will be the same if the european union does not give precise, timely, rapid, effective and supportive responses. i have heard a number of speeches, and many of them are also commendable, but i am concerned about certain aspects, particularly the one on solidarity and the one on the economy. i come from a land which in 1976 had to face a telluric event which in sixty seconds caused a thousand deaths and, although i was eight years old at the time, i saw what solidarity was, i learned what it was to express solidarity and the friulian people have shown solidarity in many other cases where other peoples have found themselves in need. i think he's running late. i do not want to add much to what has been said by my colleagues. i would ask you kindly to wait before you pull the hammer. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the poetess lamarque wrote: "you feel that cough, that infernal cough. the heart cough, it hurts too much. the heart cough doesn't let you breathe. "these days there is no cough of the heart but a deadly cough. the moment we are living in is full of anomalies and it forces us to reflect: in a society that used to travel at high speed, this invisible enemy has brought us to a standstill. let's try to see the "positive side" as well: in this day and age, when people only care about their own garden, the virus has sent us a clear message. let's use this dark moment to rediscover our sense of community. we are re-awakening our shared responsibility and we are thinking that our actions are affecting the lives of the most vulnerable people around us. in italy, hospitals are being tested, even though all the staff are holding on. the economic problems, which are already evident in some sectors such as tourism, require an immediate response. europe has done little so far. italy has asked for help and i hope that this appeal will be answered positively. we must prevent, in addition to the deaths in hospitals, that we find businessmen hanging themselves in the company, killed not by the virus but by the crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italians are not the creators of the coronavirus. i say that emphatically from this chamber! i say this because here, and abroad, for a few weeks now when we are recognized, they turn us away. italy is the second country in the world for covid-19 cases but i think that, with delay, our country has reacted harshly: since yesterday, all of italy has been under quarantine. meanwhile, yesterday, there was an important scientific discovery in cagliari, sardinia. i am sure that the data obtained will be made available to the world scientific community. unfortunately, i don't see the same solidarity from those who have denied us medical devices, such as masks, gloves and icu machines, but we'll come back to these aspects again. now it 's time for each of us to do our part: the people are asked to respect the rules and common sense; the european union is a political union. finally, it is necessary to respond to the productive sectors, and in particular to the tourism sector, which has recorded the highest rate of cancellations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks we have seen the spread of the coronavirus in europe. the regions of northern italy, in particular veneto and lombardy, have acted immediately, taking essential preventive measures to prevent the spread of the virus. the european union was completely absent: no action was taken and no gesture of solidarity was made. today we are highlighting the hypocritical face of the european union, present and severe when it is necessary to ask and absent when it is necessary to give. the damage to the italian and european economies is considerable: over 30 000 businesses and over eur 7 billion in losses in the tourism sector are at risk, with an inevitable negative impact on employment. today we are calling on the european commission to take immediate economic measures to support our businesses and our families. the european union must do its part and must do more. i thank the medical and paramedical staff in this great emergency.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, the situation of the hotspots in greece, which we have already discussed in vain, has taken on even more dramatic features, because of europe's weakness in the face of erdoğan's blackmail. islands with six times the usual capacity, children in inhumane conditions in refugee camps, open borders and millions of immigrants arriving from turkey: what a sad picture! greece is alone, as italy was. what about europe? he meets erdoğan, as if the billions of euros given to date were not too much, while we are cutting funds for agriculture and while president von der leyen still has to evaluate whether to support italy economically in the face of the coronavirus emergency. instead of sanctioning turkey, we are negotiating. this is the europe we do not like! we have heard words like defending europe's borders: greece is our shield, well, congratulations! we in the league have been saying for years that defending the borders is the solution, just as we have been saying for years about the turkish problem. let 's get down to business . the time you have is up, and so is the patience of the people of europe.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. very exotic, very interesting. thank you. but in that regard, my dear colleague, i will allow myself to give you a short, very short and quick lesson in international law. the refugee comes from war. turkey is a safe country, there is no war on turkish territory, from turkish territory to bulgaria and greece, no refugee can come. this is an illegal immigrant and when you deceive or, i say immediately lie that these people are from syria no, they are not. i'll give you a globe.
i would like to thank mr dzhambazki. i also want to say that i was hesitant earlier, mr dzhambazki. you only got around a publicity stunt because you called your colleagues hypocrites in general and not one colleague in person.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission and the council continue to talk about protecting europe's borders when you know that it is done with violence and brutality. you praise the coast guard when they sink boats instead of saving lives. it's not just the world upside down. it's illegal, and it's completely and profoundly indecent. what we should be talking about - all of us - is how we're going to protect people. protect people on the run, protect the right to asylum, protect the rule of law, save what remains of humanity and protect us all from the rising fascism that will pick us off one by one. we are going to open europe's borders and we are going to share the responsibility for a dignified reception and we are going to do it now. we will stop dealing with the despot erdoğan, who only generates more war and more oppression. we will never accept a europe that dances to orbán's tune. we will stand up for a europe of human rights, for the right to asylum and for our dignity. we stand in solidarity with those who are fleeing.
mr president, the situation at the greek-turkish border is critical. my message is clear: we stand with greece. we will not allow turkey and president erdogan to try to blackmail europe by using some of the most vulnerable people on the planet as pawns in a geopolitical power play. it is unacceptable and it is irresponsible. we can be proud that europe has stood together in what is a very trying and volatile time. that said, europe must and will fulfil its obligations. long-standing overcrowding is being addressed and, as we’ve heard, thousands of unaccompanied minors will be relocated from, hopefully, as many participating member states as possible. of course, we need to reform dublin, and ensure a new pact on migration and asylum. but we need to take those decisions without threats from across the border. at the same time, we need to do all we can to support the greek authorities, and that means ensuring the presence of all the frontex border guards and european asylum support office (easo) personnel required immediately, and providing any and all financial assistance. to conclude, migration challenges are a global phenomenon that need a global response, and turkey and the eu must be part of that approach. it is time for cool heads, de-escalation and serious discussions. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing this house in a situation which is not the usual one, of course. europe is going through a difficult time, but we must continue to work and we must do so also for those who are on the border between turkey and greece and for those who have been trapped for months, sometimes even years, on the greek islands. it is the selfishness of our member states that has caused all this suffering, that has led children to self-harm and even suicide. we need immediate measures of solidarity with those who are trapped there. we do not need to defend our borders but we need to establish an emergency relocation mechanism, first of all for unaccompanied minors. it's unthinkable to leave children in such conditions! we must be close to greece, of course! but we must also demand clearly and unambiguously that the greek government restore full respect for human rights within its borders, because the images of the past few days have made me ashamed as a human being first and as a european second.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in march 2016 the european union and turkey signed a nefarious agreement which provided for turkey to block the flow of migrants to europe in exchange for 6 billion euros. in recent weeks, the dictator erdoğan has decided not to comply with this agreement, triggering the exodus of over 100 000 migrants to greece. a meeting between mr erdoğan and commission president von der leyen was held here yesterday. has the dictator erdoğan asked the european union for more public money, even more than we have given? the european union must not give in to the blackmail of a dictator and must immediately stop the process of turkey's accession to the european union: turkey is not europe and europe does not want turkey and we are closing down frontex too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by quoting you. you said in july: "it's a virus to be contained", and he was referring to us, my party, my political group. well, perhaps in the excitement of his new role, he could afford to joke about the issues that a virus can cause. but why am i quoting this sentence of yours? not to attack you but to make you understand how, in a process like the one that is happening these last few weeks, it is very important to accept everyone's contribution. we have been warning the italians for several months about the seriousness of the situation. many minimized it. i represent a party which is in opposition here and in rome but which is in government in those regions which were the first to be attacked in europe. so i know very well the situation of people, even close to me, who are in a serious situation in the hospital. today in spain, in france we see a similar situation. the measures that italy has taken, involving the majority and the opposition in a debate that is often bitter and hard, should be the same. the method of involving the opposition must also be extended to brussels, because i am not speaking only on behalf of myself and my group, but also on behalf of the representatives who represent us in the local institutions. so when we had proposals to improve the texts today - yes, we reduced them to a minimum at the end - those proposals were needed precisely because we could come to a clearer and more complete solution to these problems. i know that the european commission has offered the most flexible interpretation possible; i know that the regions of northern italy which have asked for more decisive action have been given reassurances. but here - and i come back to the political issue - the problem is that of rules which were the basis of your european construction and which are being broken one by one: the commission has also examined the compatibility of the aid with the common market. and it's globalization itself that is in crisis today. today we find that we do not know and can no longer produce certain goods that are essential to our health. so what's happening in italy is huge: there are companies that are converting their production to be able to supply our hospitals. there are countries that are enemies of our institution - russia, china, cuba, the united states - that are helping italy. if there is a reply from europe, welcome it! but certain conditionalities in the esm make no sense and mean that we do not realise that italy, when it was necessary to help other countries, has paid 60 billion over the years. what we got in return from the commission between 2011 and 2018 is 63 requests to member states to cut health care and privatize it. well, it's time to change all that.
in writing. – i support this proposal because we need to respond as soon as possible to this immense and unprecedented economic, social and political challenge called coronavirus. the coronavirus epidemic sweeping across europe has made one thing abundantly clear: you can’t fight an epidemic alone. it requires urgent, decisive, and comprehensive action at the eu, national, regional and local levels. the european economy and single market have become so essential to our well-being yet we only recognise the value of them when it comes to a halt. with thousands of airplanes grounded, factories all across europe shutting, and millions of businesses suffering, our european interconnectedness – or rather the temporary lack of it – has become painfully visible. therefore, this exceptional situation needs to be addressed with specific measures to support and protect member states’ economies, companies and workers. i fully support the eu commission ‘coronavirus response investment initiative’ which aim is to mobilise more than eur 37 billion quickly in order to address the consequences of the coronavirus crisis. it is a matter for the whole eu and we need common action and solidarity if we want to respond quickly and effectively to covid-19 crisis.
in writing. five hundred million europeans are being subjected to the shock of covid-19, the magnitude of which is unprecedented in our personal memory. two things are certain: (a) the catastrophic consequences of the crisis are still dependent on the european institutions and their capacity to respond; (b) everything is in question - our daily lives, our security, our behaviour - but also the usefulness and even the raison d'être of the eu as a space governed by law, a community of values and a globally relevant area of cohesion and solidarity. the eu will be wrong to underestimate the risk to its reputation and credibility imposed by this crisis. the european council of 26 march could only take decisions to match the enormity of this call, namely: a) a liquidity guarantee to administrations and companies at zero rates; b) suspension of the rigors and release of the fiscal capacities to ensure that the victims receive all the aid they deserve. the european union is also supporting the european investment bank, the european central bank and eurobonds to combat the virus and to rebuild what is being damaged. if the treaties set limits, it is time for extraordinary solutions. if the instrument is the esm, no conditionality or memorandum of understanding is acceptable under any circumstances.
in writing. we are living in an extraordinary situation that challenges us to take exceptional and unique measures and that needs strong leadership. helping each other is helping yourself. we should have learned this from all the crises we have overcome before and which have shown that only together can we overcome adversity. the choices we make today will define our future. we are facing a public health emergency, and the union will do everything in its power to save lives. the measures approved today will directly help all the professionals who work miracles every day with the resources at their disposal. many countries, like mine, are in a state of disruption and the emergency mechanisms we are putting in place here today, with 90% of the union's funding, will allow for effective and rapid aid. i also welcome the response of our scientists, who, united in a group led by the european commission, are constantly looking for a vaccine or more effective means of dealing with this pandemic. we will overcome this situation together, and the solidarity we show in our actions today will bear fruit and tomorrow we will be more united in this unique project which is the european union.
in writing. – today, we are voting on three measures - the start of the eu’s response to the pandemic. but we can do more. european solidarity will be essential. the eu can play a vital role to maintain supply chains for medical equipment and food. we heard terrible stories from colleagues from italy and spain, the worst affected countries. we must stand with our partners. finally, we need to consider if the eu is fully equipped to deal with global crises like this. on animal health, the eu has stronger powers which means there is more coordinated eu action on disease outbreaks like african swine fever. this isn’t the case for human health. our strength on animal disease was only developed after the bse crisis. the covid-19 pandemic is a crisis we cannot afford to waste. it requires us to acknowledge the need for more coordinated eu action on health - more europe, not less. i want a europe that acts before a crisis hits, a europe well-prepared to handle future crises, a europe that leads globally and helps locally. we can do it. perhaps it is this shock to the system which will make us act - better late than never.
in writing. – while some may argue that the debt or the migration crises, we faced in the past decade, required only eu solidarity to cope with, as not all member states were equally affected, the current covid-19 humanitarian crisis requires unprecedented decisiveness and scale of the eu response. for the eu, which began 2020 with expectations for an economic recession by the end of the year, the pandemics couldn’t have come at a more inconvenient moment. this means that we must adopt radical measures to mitigate the most severe negative effects of the covid-19 crisis. saving human lives and keeping eu businesses alive are top priorities at the moment. the financial injection for member states we are about to vote today is an adequate measure to support member states’ budgets with additional funds. i am also a strong supporter of the ecb and the eib group actions to ensure enough liquidity for the eu financial system. besides, i believe a decisive measure with an imminent and direct effect would be the eu to loosen the short-term austerity restriction such as the fiscal compact requirements so member states could deploy large scale fiscal measures timely.
in writing. the european union and the world are now facing a crisis of a completely unprecedented nature. the covid-19 pandemic is not only a health crisis, but also an economic crisis. the european commission proposes to redirect €37 billion to disaster management, allowing member states to strengthen their health systems. the european union, as a model of solidarity, therefore wishes to provide adequate support to the challenges facing the member states in these times of crisis. however, the way in which european financial assistance is used will be left to the governments of the member states. it is the task of the european institutions, in addition to providing aid, to ensure that the leaders of the countries allocate the money they receive, because human lives are at stake, and the stakes are high. the global challenge must be met with european unity. i would therefore ask my fellow members to vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the commission to ensure that europe can respond as quickly as possible to this health and economic emergency.
in writing. we'll vote for these proposals, but it's far too little. it's not business as usual, it's not a situation like any other and we can't solve it again in a bureaucratic manner. european solidarity must not be just a concept in a treaty. the funds allocated at european level are far too little compared to the real needs. but where do we get the funds if some states don't understand the need to contribute more to do more things together for the citizens we represent. we need a common european database of all people in quarantine, home isolation or suspected coronavirus, and it needs to be accessible to healthcare staff and those who are on the ground every day. we need medical and protective equipment, masks and medicines in sufficient quantities and affordable for everyone and all member states. we need to allocate all resources to resolve the medical crisis and prevent its return. we need to work together to identify the antidote and vaccine as soon as possible. we need to quickly regain confidence in democratic institutions and the economy by identifying effective recovery measures, new, fairer formulas and the allocation of sufficient resources.
in writing. europe is facing the biggest crisis in recent times, affecting public health and the eu economy. we can only tackle this global problem together, and the eu must act decisively to bring the pandemic under control. member states should be provided with adequate medical supplies, best practices should be actively shared to combat the coronavirus and cooperation between countries should be established to ensure the smooth functioning of trade. it should also be understood that, although the current health crisis is serious and international law allows for the use of emergency powers in the event of major risks, all measures in the coronavirus response must be proportionate, necessary and non-discriminatory. finally, countries where the spread of the virus is slowing down should seek to normalize life and avoid a situation where emergency powers are unreasonably prolonged.
in writing. – the coronavirus outbreak represents a challenge to the eu. coordinated and urgent responses are necessary to alleviate the effects of this sanitary crisis. the aim is to mobilise cohesion funds and redirect them towards the most urgent needs: support for healthcare, social temporary measures for the workers and employees as well as enterprises, in particular smes. the unused pre-financing (€8 billion) received by the member states in 2019 won’t be called back by the commission and can be reoriented to address this crisis. the proposal would enable disbursement of the structural funds through this existing liquidity of €8 bn. (together with eu co-financing of €29 billion would bring €37 billion support from the eu budget). the mss can also use funds, which are not contracted to finance acquisition of medical assets, equipment and materials, to promote technical unemployment schemes and finance working capital for enterprises etc. we call upon the ec to promote additional simplification measures to allow the use of all available funds, including increased co-financing rates (95%), transfer of funds among categories of regions and avoid decommitment risk in 2020. solidarity and responsibility across our societies and between member states will be key to overcome this challenge.
in writing. the image that europe is offering to our citizens, not only worried by the dramatic health crisis but, in many cases, literally crouched by the economic damage caused by the epidemic containment measures, is the frame of an administrative elephant trapped in the swamp of bureaucracy, and the representation of a supranational organization politically disoriented. the selfishness of some member states is paralysing the need to make clear, in practice, that the crisis due to covid-19 affects every single country. only a joint assumption of responsibility, by sharing the debt arising from the emergency, could help to restore, albeit in a limited way, a semblance of solidarity at community level. if the health emergency continues to be exploited opportunistically and immorally by the 'usual well-known' in order to impose their national economic and financial agendas, we will see a final and justified abandonment of the european project.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen, president michel, thank you for coming. i hope that this will be the last meeting at which our colleagues are unable to reach brussels, because it is important, as we ask the national and regional parliaments to work, that brussels too can be fully operational, because that is what our citizens are asking for. i'm from liguria, northwest italy. lombardy is a region close to my city, and everyone in my region knows of friends and relatives who are either in a situation of great suffering or have disappeared. what some may not know or understand is the frustration of those who are facing this emergency alone, or because they are living in quarantine alone, or because they are alone, without the comfort of their loved ones, facing hospitalization, loved ones and relatives who may not even be able to celebrate the funeral. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised, and that the safety of workers is not compromised. the problem is that if we are to get out of this situation quickly, it will be partly thanks to a system of rules that existed at european level and which we must necessarily abolish, and it is very important that people understand and examine their conscience about the fact that this system of rules is what has made europe in recent years the continent with the least growth in the world. it was obvious that the first exogenous cause, like the one we are experiencing today but it could be a war, a strong trade crisis, a speculative bubble, like the one a few years ago it was obvious that the system would have extreme difficulties. so the mistake we should not make is, after the health emergency, to reinstate that system of rules that have failed as if nothing had happened. because we are talking about a european union which until the other day was promoting relocation through trade agreements which today make us realize that we are not, we were no longer able to produce certain things. i see some presidents, even the french one, saying: no, we need to get back to productive autonomy, not just in the health sector, but in the agricultural sector and many others. the search: the president of the european research council resigned a few days ago, denouncing the impossibility of working in this field at european level. the word 'truth' is used a lot, and an attempt is made to give a european perspective, analysing a point of view which, in my opinion, is almost always and only that of a communication capable of defending the european commission itself, because this european commission is a victim of itself, of the communication it has given in recent years, selling itself to the citizens as a system with a budget which, of course, can be useful, we will work on it, but it will be able to move very few resources. what is needed first is that the states should be free to make their own policies. we have an ecb that has a system of rules that does not work, that is not the federal reserve or the bank of england, and we will certainly pay the consequences of that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sure italy will make it. i am not sure that the european union will be able to overcome this crisis. europe and the member states and italy will do it. but i do not think the european union will.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's own resources, which make up the budget, are actually provided by the member states by means of vat or gross national income. the new resources that are being brought to the table will be confronted with the vetoes of the powerful lobbies in europe. the ecb, unlike other foreign central banks, cannot finance the european budget directly, nor are there any other forms of own resources that do not result in additional taxes for european citizens. the next mff, the instrument on which european solidarity should be based, will therefore only be a game of chance for some and a net loss of resources for others. the countries with very wide spending margins are already financing their own economies, leaving no room for any mutualisation of sovereign debts or eurobonds. the instruments put in place, including the recovery fund, will therefore only be able to provide loans by forcing already highly indebted countries to borrow even more and by placing the burden of this crisis on the innocent citizens, the only lenders of last resort, since the treaties forbid european central banks from playing this role. but if those same citizens are unable to work today because of the pandemic, who will produce the income necessary to repay that debt? the european union cannot continue to shout slogans without producing results. if the treaties are not to be changed by radical reforms, including in relation to the mandate of the ecb and the budget, words such as 'ambitious targets' or 'no one will be left behind' will remain mere slogans and the union will not achieve any objective, even a modest one, because many of its citizens have already been left behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of the tremendous amount of fire that the european union has been putting out in words to counter the economic effects of the pandemic, the only mouse that has so far succeeded in giving birth to the elephant has been the emu: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000. what about the much-vaunted recovery fund? we are still not sure whether this is just a matter of funding or whether it is also a matter of the shares being lost. will the guarantees come from the eu budget, which is fixed at 1.07% of gdp, or from substantial additional percentage contributions from the member states? on 29 april, the commission's vice-president, ms jourová, said that 1 january 2021 was a very ambitious date to see it operational. will the recovery fund also be leveraged in the way that juncker proposed in 2014 for his famous €300 billion plan that never came to light? the recovery fund will eventually be a bad copy of the esm in technicalities and conditionalities. while the financial instruments to be adopted are being discussed and valuable time is being wasted by postponing decisions, european companies and above all european citizens are on their knees. we are in a situation comparable to war, but we are still trying to find the right instruments in the treaties and regulations drawn up in peacetime. before we walk through the rubble of a collapsing economy, let us have the courage and strength to adopt exceptional and decisive instruments, such as direct intervention by the ecb. it is time to act, not to delay!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian, i am very disappointed by the measures taken by europe to deal with the economic emergency caused by covid-19: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the community are not used to the detriment of the people of the union. the recovery plan is the only exception, but there is no certainty as to how and under what conditions it will be implemented, or rather, based on the european budget, we only know that these funds will not arrive until next year. well, it's too late. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am, of course, referring to the esm: you have given us a guarantee of no conditionality, but to make that clear it was necessary to put it in writing two weeks after the agreement with the eurogroup. the reality is that, once the emergency is over, italy will have to pay back the mes installment of 4 billion euros a year, forcing us to cut welfare and impose new taxes. you say we should trust you, but we don't, but the italians no longer trust this european union. you must prove otherwise, because we do not want to find ourselves here in a few years with a commission president apologizing in plenary for having applied rash austerity, just as our greek friends have already done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the bureaucrats in brussels are masters of financial illusionism, a real art of peddling small sums as if they were billions of euros. that's a tough one, and you may not like it, but it's not my cup of tea. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. i am a spokesman for the disappointment that comes from the fact that the first tentative signs of overcoming the health crisis have preceded the billions announced with great fanfare by the european institutions. time has been lost, too much time has been lost, and some have even grotesquely tried to lay the blame on those who do not even attend the meetings of the eurogroup and the european council, when it would have been appropriate, for once, to take a leap of humility, recognising that many unsustainable dogmatic principles of the union, from state aid legislation to the stability and growth pact, have been repudiated as inapplicable in a state of crisis. a positive note, however, is found in the conclusions of president charles michel, who stresses the importance of increasing the union's strategic autonomy and of producing essential goods in europe: in practice, this is a step back from the overdose of neoliberalism that we have been denouncing for years, but no one has listened to us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decrees issued by the government are the result of illegitimate powers. the prime minister's decrees without a time limit are unconstitutional. restricting freedoms by government decree is an act that is completely unconstitutional. these are the words of sabino cassese, annibale marini and antonio baldassarre, three of the many constitutional judges - some of them also presidents of the constitutional court - who have publicly condemned the violation of the rule of law in italy. in hungary, a democratically elected parliament has, by a vote in parliament, given extraordinary powers to its government to deal with the health emergency. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, which of the two countries is violating the rule of law? you know the truth better than i do. you want to subjugate two peoples, hungary and poland, because you must, after trying to suppress them with oppression.... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament unfortunately does not miss an opportunity to show that it is at the mercy of the left. we are still in the midst of the worst global emergency since world war ii: we should focus our efforts on how to overcome the crisis and find the tools to help our citizens. the european parliament, however, considers it a priority to hold a debate on how the hungarian government has violated the rule of law, attacking it once again just because it does not please the left. it is the usual attitude of "double standards" which, on the other hand, does not see any criticism of the conte government, which in italy has not only acted in a way that shows its complete incompetence but has, in fact, abolished democracy by means of decrees, the very democracy that orbán respected by obtaining the vote of the elected parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we dissociate ourselves, we look into the eyes of our citizens and see the indignation... (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for this very important discussion. we are speaking here about the emergency regime in hungary and i think that it’s very important that the commission is monitoring the emergency measures taken in hungary, but also in all the other member states. we live in very challenging times, we live in an extraordinary situation which requires extraordinary and special measures to be taken. when we look at the extraordinary measures and the emergency regimes, we have to – and i’ve also repeated what i said at the beginning – look into how the regime is applied, and here there are very clear requirements that measures must be – only to the extent necessary – relevant for the solution or tackling the corona crisis, proportionate measures and also time a limit. and the time limit is something where we have the biggest concerns regarding the hungarian regime. the commission is monitoring the situation in all states, but in the case of hungary i can reveal to you today that i have daily reports. i have weekly reports from our permanent representations, but i am following very closely the hungarian situation daily reports. i am very well informed about the cases now of two people who were detained in relation to the spread of so-called fake news. i am informed about the actions taken by the government in relation to self-government and so on. on a daily basis we are assessing whether we can take legal action. and i said before, and i will repeat it here: we are not opening infringement proceedings on hungary yet. we are closely monitoring all the measures, and we also have to take into consideration that in our toolbox is also article 7 and that the debate in the council is ongoing and i am sure we will come back to it when the council holds the general affairs council session. but on concrete measures, because we said that we are monitoring all the concrete measures taken under the emergency regime, i would like to be more concrete here to give you some examples. the commission’s attention has been drawn to certain degrees which allow employers and employees to agree bilaterally to derogate from almost all provisions of the hungarian labour code. as the labour code transposes several eu directives the commission is currently analysing these measures as regards their compatibility with eu labour and social law. also, the commission is examining several decrees as regards their compatibility with the general data protection regulation. just these two examples of the concrete focus of the commission in these days. and indeed, many of you mentioned here that there should be eu money should be provisional on the distribution conditioned by the basic principles of the rule of law in the countries. well, when i came with this idea in 2017, it created a lot of noise, people said ‘we cannot go that far’. i think now, with the situation developing in a wrong direction in a couple of states, we see that making money conditional on compliance with the basic principles set out in article 2 of the treaty is the proper thing to do. today, the commission will have the debate about the multiannual financial framework, about the budget for the next seven years. i will emphasise again and again in every fora at which i have a chance to speak about the new budget, that the conditionality has to be maintained and that the system of voting about the concrete cases must not be voted down. and i am happy that this is still in the negotiating box of the budget and it has to remain there and it has to keep its teeth because the commission proposed something which might really create or bring about some real difference. we have now the joint european roadmap towards lifting covid-19 containment measures after 15 april and we underlined that the general state of emergency is exceptional emergency powers for governments should be progressively replaced by more targeted interventions in line with constitutional arrangements of each country. so this is what we expect hungary to do, to go along with the rest of the other member states and to release the confinement measures and to come back to what i already called before ‘old normal’, or at least the old normal. and again, the context relating to hungary is that this is the country which is under the article 7 procedure. so we must build our new steps and next steps on the basis of common values. we must come back to normal checks and balances and the citizens must benefit fully from their rights. if i can have a little bit longer i would like to add something a little bit personal and i will speak czech. i remember very well the time – i said i would speak czech . . . you see, after six years of being here it’s deformation. . . velmi dobře si pamatuju dobu, kdy bylo československo okupovanou zemí od roku devatenáct set šedesát osm. okupace a totalitní režim nás všechny velice ovlivnil. žili jsme ve strachu a snili jsme o tom, že jednoho dne budeme žít ve svobodné společnosti, že jednoho dne přijde ke slovu a bude uskutečněna naše touha po svobodě, touha po aktivním občanství, že budeme mít možnost svobody slova, že budeme mít fungující samosprávy, které budou dostatečně finančně vybaveny, aby dělaly kvalitní veřejnou službu, že budeme mít svobodné volby, které zajistí střídání lidí u moci, že budeme mít mocné, ale ne všemocné, že nikdo nebude v té naší krásné zemi nad zákonem, že budeme mít otevřené hranice, že si budeme užívat otevřenosti, svobody a občanského sebevědomí. dámy a pánové, dnes jsme okupováni koronavirem a mnoho státníků evropské unie řeklo, že v této době je nezbytné omezení některých svobod a že se budeme muset smířit s tím, že po velice krátkou limitovanou dobu, po dobu nezbytnou, budeme muset tato omezení snést. zároveň státníci řekli jasně lidem, že mohou očekávat návrat ke všem těm úžasným věcem, které jsem tady před chvílí vyjmenovala, těm věcem, o kterých jsme snili v totalitním československu. já tomu věřím, že se to stane. věřím tomu, že v zemích, kde jsou pochybnosti – a dnes se bavíme o maďarsku –, že i občané maďarska budou toužit po tom, aby se maďarsko vrátilo k demokratickým principům a že se toho dočkáme minimálně teď, po skončení té koronavirové okupace, ale že budeme muset dál s maďarskem vést dialog, že bude muset komise dělat svou práci a reagovat právním způsobem podle pravidel, pokud k tomu budou všechny právní podmínky, že bude muset i mezinárodní společenství vyvíjet tlak na maďarsko, aby se vrátilo do klubu bezpochybně demokratických zemí. přála bych si to, protože tady není v sázce jenom situace v maďarsku, ale je to vlastně velká výzva pro celou evropskou unii. děkuji vám i za tu možnost, že jsem mohla tady říct trošku ze svých osobních vzpomínek. mám dlouhý životopis a teď bych řekla, že je dobře, že si toto pamatuju, protože mi to taky dává sílu pracovat na této agendě.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i want to thank you personally for your personal words. i think the dictatorships that we've seen on this continent make us responsible for ensuring that these things don't happen again. and because we have dictatorships of different colours on the continent, we owe that to all people, regardless of what colour they are, who are threatened by their lack of freedom. i have a different background from you, but i remember very clearly: a few years ago in strasbourg a group of cyclists came along the green belt and then crossed over to strasbourg, and some of them, including those from your country, rode into the courtyard of the european parliament with tears in their eyes. thank you for your personal comments.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, the presidency of the council as a whole attaches great importance to upholding the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. in the aftermath of the crisis, the union as a whole, will need to be very vigilant in respect of the values set out in article 2 of the treaty of the european union. the croatian presidency recognises the crucial role that rule of law plays in all our democracies. it is a key guarantee that our common values are protected and a joint responsibility of member states and all eu institutions. this is no less important when facing the challenges of the covid-19 pandemic where unprecedented circumstances led many member states to adopt far-reaching measures in order to rapidly and effectively curb the spread of the virus. member states have already given broad support to the commission’s initiative to monitor the extraordinary measures and their application across the union on an equal basis for all member states. similar efforts, based on equality of approach and monitoring developments across the union, are underway by different european institutions, the fundamental rights agency, but also the council of europe. furthermore, the commission is in the process of preparing the first annual report on the rule of law in the union, to be published later this year, focusing on several rule of law areas. during the croatian presidency, this process remains in the preparatory phase. the commission is leading the work and the member states are involved in all the process. i mentioned earlier that article 7 procedures concerning poland and hungary were on the agenda of the general affairs council on 25 march. however, due to the covid-19 emergency, that meeting had to be cancelled. unfortunately, the emergency is not over and for the time being, it is not possible to hold a formal council meeting. as we already mentioned, on 6 and 22 april, emergency measures adopted in response to the covid-19 crisis were discussed at informal video meetings by ministers of justice and european affairs. the ministers exchanged views on national and eu measures taken so far in response to the covid-19 outbreak, including their duration, scope and effectiveness, as well as the impact of emergency measures on fundamental rights and the rule of law. ministers shared their experience and best practices in the overall context of a collective eu response. the council remains seized of the article 7 procedures and the croatian presidency is ready to continue proceeding at the general affairs council as soon as the situation allows us to convene formal council meetings. we continue to follow all developments closely. at the same time, we hope that the ongoing dialogue at the political level between the commission and the member states concerned will bring some tangible results. the presidency will pay particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate.
good morning to you all. i would like to thank the council for its contribution to this debate and with this intervention from the council we have closed the agenda item on the question of hungary and the rule of law and fundamental rights. that concludes this debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. how could the european union retain any credibility in the face of its purely ideological relentlessness against viktor orban's hungary? the underlying reason is, of course, his opposition to the unreasonable migration policy that brussels keeps imposing on the peoples of europe. the double standard is always startling. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the emergency measures and the press freedom laws recently led its president himself to describe it as a potential 'north korea of europe'. as for montenegro, still plagued by disputes over the rights of the serbian orthodox church, has it not skillfully taken advantage of the crisis to disturb the priests and faithful of this confession? the common feature of these two candidate countries is that they do not deviate from the ideological line imposed by brussels. the citizens of the member states are not fooled by these machinations and, by this systematic bias, the union will soon have lost what was left of its legitimacy in public opinion.
in writing. as a hungarian, i would like to help my colleagues from the european people's party, fidesz, to inform them about the hungarian law on protection against coronavirus. in our written comments, we make the full text of the law available to you. please read it, make sure that it is written in accordance with democratic principles. this act shall enter into force on the day following its publication. section 8 the national assembly shall decide on the termination of this act upon the termination of the state of emergency. section 9 of this act (a) section 2 of this act is considered to be fundamental pursuant to article 54 (4) of the basic law, (b) section 5 of this act is considered to be fundamental pursuant to article 24 (9) of the basic law, (c) section 6 (1) of this act is considered to be fundamental pursuant to articles xxix (3) and 31 (3) of the basic law, (d) section 6 (2) of this act is considered to be fundamental pursuant to articles xxix (3) and 2 (1) of the basic law and article 35 (1) of the basic law.
in writing. we are witnessing the culmination of a process unprecedented in the history of the eu, whose bureaucrats at the highest level are waging open warfare with uncomfortable member states and governments. the war against hungary and viktor orbán has been waged under all sorts of pretexts from allegedly defending freedom of speech to criticizing why hungary allows itself to not accept mass migrants on its territory. it has been made clear for years that the conservative and nationalist line of the government in budapest is unwanted by brussels and the liberal wing that governs this union of supposedly sovereign member states. this campaign is reaching its ugly climax. the pretext for the next attack is being used at a time when the world is suffering from a global pandemic that is claiming thousands of lives. governments are struggling to find salvation for their citizens. so does the government in budapest, managing, it seems, skillfully, judging by the data so far. while the eu is allowing itself to attack orban again because of the measures budapest is taking to deal with the virus. it's cynicism, impudence and a complete lack of basic human morality. i call on european citizens of all political families and parties to unite in this difficult moment for our continent, instead of stooping to scenes of ugly and unscrupulous political attacks.
in writing. as a hungarian, i would like to help my colleagues from the european people's party, fidesz, to inform them about the hungarian law on protection against coronavirus. in our written comments, we make the full text of the law available to you. please read it, make sure that it is written in accordance with democratic principles. article 6 (1) and (2) in the event of the dissolution of the local or national council, this decision shall take effect on the day following the end of the emergency. (2) no interim elections may be called until the day after the end of the state of emergency, and elections already scheduled shall be cancelled. the published references must be handed over to the electoral office within fifteen days of the entry into force of the act, which will destroy them. elections not held and elections not held shall be held within 15 days of the end of the emergency. the following table is added: national and local referendums cannot be initiated until the day after the end of the state of emergency, and national and local referendums already scheduled will not take place. all the time limits laid down in title iiiv of act ccxxxviii of 2013 on the initiative for a referendum, on the european citizens' initiative and on the procedure for a referendum are suspended. the time limits shall resume on the day following the end of the emergency. national and local referendums that are not postponed or are delayed shall be postponed within 15 days of the end of the emergency.
in writing. in recent weeks, there has been a further serious deterioration in the respect for the rule of law and the full functioning of democracy in hungary. first, orbán's decision to approve emergency measures that completely abolish the role of parliament for an indefinite period of time and allow his government to govern through decrees. then, the restriction of press freedom, given that the government has imposed severe and absolutely disproportionate penalties - such as imprisonment - on those accused of spreading disinformation, as denounced by various members of the press and the opposition. hence the decision by the two majority governing parties not to ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address this grave form of human rights violation. we can no longer tolerate that a member country constantly violates the founding principles of the union (article 4 teu) and continues to receive billions of euros in european funding. the new multiannual budget must impose very strict conditionality on the disbursement of funds to those countries which do not respect the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the european commission has provided guidelines for apps that will ensure the traceability of infections, and it is essential that they take account of the privacy of citizens, but it is also important to ensure the transparency of the companies that develop the apps, so that there are no conflicts of interest that would undermine the protection of user data and the credibility of these tools. these instruments must lead us to the reopening of schengen as soon as possible, to a fully secure mobility right at the doorstep of the tourist season in europe, thus showing a europe united in its difficulties and not just in its diversity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the coronavirus health emergency, europe is making serious mistakes. there was a lack of solidarity between european countries (you will all remember the failure to send respirators and masks to the most affected countries, such as italy), each country acted differently on tampons and the count of deaths and then also on treatment, medicines and vaccines: europe has been totally absent. but today i want to talk to you about the hyperimmune plasma treatment, a simple treatment that has been around in medicine for almost a century, now being tested on covid-19 in mantua and pavia, italy, with great results. i'll give you a little bit of data. in the case of very serious patients in intensive care, mortality is reduced from 15 to 6%, and in mantua, for those who are not very serious, mortality is reduced to zero. think about it, 116 universities in the united states are already doing it. let's talk about the costs. antiviral drugs can cost four, five, six times more than a simple bag of plasma. yet neither the italian government nor you in europe seem particularly interested in the matter. why would you do that? well, it doesn't have big pharmaceutical companies behind it, it doesn't have big investment and big power in the industry, it doesn't have big contracts and millionaire profits. maybe some people are better off going somewhere else. this is a mistake. we are asking that, pending a vaccine, europe should financially support this therapy and encourage the establishment of dedicated plasma banks in the various european countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i note that president von der leyen has come here today to present to us what was agreed, albeit under a different name, last week by angela merkel and emmanuel macron, demonstrating once again the european commission's subordination to the franco-german duopoly. i'm sorry to see your role diminished. i'm not going to hide that i appreciated hearing ambition in your words but you see, we italians with the conte government in these months have seen so much ambition, but few facts: i think that the commission has a duty to do more than just to give the necessary information. the reason for this is that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have heard nothing about those sectors which are not considered strategic but which are essential to the economy of many countries: i'm thinking about tourism, just to name one. and most of all, they're worried about the timing. if he can get everyone on board, the dutch first, we will only see the real effects next year. meanwhile, the european economy is dying either from the coronavirus or bureaucratic starvation. but don't blame us populists if europe is not well-liked by the citizens: we shall reap only what you sow.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the death of a man as a result of violence deserves justice. and so, rightly, the whole world has expressed its condolences over the death of george floyd. but to the international press and the mainstream, perhaps some lives are worth less than others. this is the case of david dorn, who i want to mention, the 77-year-old african american retired police officer, who died on june 2nd, on facebook live, while trying to defend a friend's store after it was attacked by violent protesters in st. louis. he was black and innocent too. but for his death, no march, no protest, no outcry. protests across america have become increasingly violent and are spreading to europe as well. to the fury against the police has been added the iconoclastic fury against the statues and symbols of the past. racism has been blamed on christopher columbus, the confederate leaders, indro montanelli, the conquerors of the past, even the movie gone with the wind. tearing down statues will not save the world from the struggle against racism. apart from racism, there is a plague that is spreading around the world and we must fight it: it's the ignorance and stupidity of those who want to erase our history.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here, commissioner valean. we have had different opportunities to discuss with you and your colleague mr breton, and we have already had the opportunity to discuss the impact of this crisis on tourism and transport and how far-reaching it is. i shall speak tonight mainly on the subject of tourism, because, as my colleagues have said, it is a very important sector. in my country, italy, alone, it represents 13% of gross domestic product. there has been a lot of talk about how to intervene on an economic level. in fact, it could be done at zero cost, by simplifying the rules through the legislative power which the commission has in brussels. i am referring, for example, to the services directive, which we also discussed with commissioner breton. the scope of the directive is open to intervention. for years, investments in the bathing sector in italy have been blocked precisely because of the risk and problems that can arise from the application of a directive dating from 2006 and today we are in 2020. we can take action to exclude that sector.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president borrell, it is clear that the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic is clearly changing the global geopolitical balance. in this context, china has certainly not been a reliable partner during the health crisis and its initial silence cannot be forgiven. we strongly emphasize, as our secretary matteo salvini has repeatedly called for, the need for an international investigation to understand the causes and origins of the virus. the communist regime is guilty of its own crimes and the european union must have the strength to demand that this investigation be carried out. you see, it may seem like you're hearing this from someone in the league, but you, as the high representative, have been more clear on china than, alas, the italian government. too many voices, especially those from the five star movement, including foreign minister luigi di maio, have not had the strength and courage to condemn beijing, risking to put italy in the orbit of china's vassal countries. we strongly urge this investigation. soon we will see the difference between those who are free and those who are not, between those who choose freedom and those who look to the chinese communist party as a model to follow.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, i hope that the commission and its colleagues will stick to the facts. there is no arms race, no military operation decided on the spur of the moment. we are talking about a legislative proposal to be submitted to the canonical parliamentary procedures of a democratic state. so i cannot help but be surprised by these alarmist sentiments, but it is obvious that some people here in brussels have already forgotten how democracy works and are proposing to intervene in the internal affairs of sovereign states and are preparing to bring their decision-making authority to trial. that is why i remind the institutions that the protagonists of the middle east peace process should be the state of israel and the palestinian authority, while the european union has only a supporting role to play in the utmost neutrality. that's because ambition without tools becomes greedy. some international analysts have already ruled that the european union, turkey and iran will bark without biting.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the direction we are taking is not convincing. it claims that it does not want to suppress freedom of expression but, at the same time, it wants to highlight the information professionals and block the social accounts of those who spread fake news. i would point out that media professionals are often little more than propaganda organs. we recall that in italy they supported the position of the government and those who wanted to defeat covid with aperitivo shots, giving instead the racist to those who asked for stricter measures. the pretext of defending health and fighting fake news is to gag people who say uncomfortable things. those who want to defend freedom of expression and fake news fight them with the truth and not with censorship.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for us to remember that member states retain sovereignty over the management of their borders, but we were among the first, since the outbreak of the pandemic, to call for travel restrictions. the commission, commissioner johansson, on the other hand, has criticised the reintroduction of internal border controls and has tried to delay the restrictions at the external borders, closing them only when the spread of the disease was already out of control in several countries. if he had listened to us, we could have drastically reduced the spread of the pandemic in europe and avoided the invasion, especially that of sicily, resulting from the exponential increase in illegal landings, as if it were not enough to welcome the torturers who arrived with the rackete. we hope that you will now at least be able to show some interest in some of the key sectors of the european economy, such as tourism, transport and hospitality, which have suffered serious damage and need to be encouraged. and i regret to note that there is no word from the other groups on this.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis has made clear the distortion of the idea of europe conceived years ago, the lack of scientific coordination in dealing with the health emergency, the lack of economic solidarity which we shall see more clearly in the coming days, the reversal of the schengen principle which we are discussing today. the free movement of people and goods in europe has been disorderly curtailed, while the demand has been made to open the doors of europe to immigration from outside europe. three days ago we in the libe committee even paid tribute to one of the ngo ships which brought hundreds of migrants to italy, while italians were dying by the hundreds every day. this is not europe. i'm sorry, i don't know your name, but that's different.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has shown us in recent weeks that the european labour market is much more integrated than we imagine. we have understood that without the free movement of workers, especially seasonal and cross-border workers, entire productive sectors which are strategic for the european union risk being blocked. the worker, from the moment he leaves his country of origin via the green corridors, needs to be protected by high standards of protection, housing, working conditions and remuneration, until full recognition of his acquired rights in terms of social security, which for us must fall to the country where the worker performs his work and where he pays the taxes. we believe that the union must promote the harmonization of national labour laws in order to solve wage dumping, but also to deal with the new dumping which is taking place and which is based precisely on the health and safety of workers. i think we can support this resolution, especially if it can be the basis for new legislation to better protect european workers and to eliminate that unfair competition which unfortunately still characterizes the internal market ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i agree, albeit with some reservations, with the content of the resolution that has been tabled on the protection of crossborder workers, a category of workers particularly affected by the covid-19 crisis. as far as italy is concerned, over one hundred thousand workers cross the border every day to work in other countries, such as france, austria and even san marino. of these, however, more than 70 000 work in switzerland. this is why, on the one hand, the call in this resolution must be extended to neighbouring countries, such as switzerland or the united kingdom, to ensure decent working conditions and adequate protection measures, in order to protect all frontier workers, particularly seasonal workers who, by the nature of their contractual basis, fall into a particularly vulnerable group. on the other hand, we hope that the states will implement in concrete terms, and not just in words, the protective measures for those frontier and seasonal workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the covid-19 crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that the measures taken by the member states to contain and combat the spread of the virus have had very serious consequences for crossborder and seasonal workers in the states where they are employed. i think about how they found themselves immediately and suddenly without income, housing, transportation, health care. i would like to say a special word to the seasonal workers in agriculture, who are often victims of the corporal tax. a plague, unfortunately, very common in the regions of my southern italy. this resolution is a clear and acceptable response to the serious problems facing these categories of workers. i hope, therefore, that the commission and the states will ensure full protection of rights, by sanctioning any discrimination against workers, and that the council will guarantee the necessary resources to boost employment and provide protection and support for workers and firms that have been penalised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has had a terrible impact on our lives, but it has not affected everyone in the same way. it has made the living and working conditions of those who were already on the margins of the production system, though they were an indispensable part of it, more extreme and brutal. the conditions in which thousands of seasonal and migrant workers, particularly in the agricultural sector, are living today are totally unacceptable: exploited for a starvation wage, without hours, without rights and, in the time of covid-19, without that health protection that must be guaranteed. often invisible slaves under the daily blackmail of the corporals, as already mentioned. in this respect, we need stronger, faster and more timely responses. the principle of equal treatment in equal work, which is also enshrined in some european legislation, must be applied in national legislation, and serious and effective controls are needed both on the material conditions in which these people live and work and on the subcontracting chains in which their work is included. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we need to listen to all the requests that come from our crossborder and seasonal workers, and to reject attempts to regularize regular immigrants, as has happened in italy. if we are serious about meeting the labour needs of our productive activities, we should give priority to the many unemployed citizens affected by the crisis, perhaps by considering the possibility of introducing a voucher system to regulate parttime work and thus reduce the tax burden. and i'm also talking about those residents who base their income on seasonal activities. i am thinking, for example, of the bathers, ski instructors and all the tourism workers in coastal areas, such as lifeguards, waiters, cleaners. they must all be guaranteed decent working conditions and regulated by the individual member states. only then will we have a real prospect of getting out of this crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss seasonal workers in the covid emergency and therefore also border management. then we can tell each other the truth and tell, for example, what happened in italy. in this covid period, there have been thousands of illegal immigrants who have landed on our shores. so let's just say that border management hasn't exactly worked out very well. there have been disproportionate quarantine costs: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. there were special ferries for the reception. there is no european solidarity, no relocation, no shared management of reception. and what about the seasonal government? he decided to make a nice sanatorium, with the excuse of the emergency of seasonal workers in the agricultural sector, with the good peace of many italians in difficulty and without work. so let us say a total failure, both for italy and for europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, like all of you, i shall be returning to my own city this evening. tomorrow i'll meet with mayors, businessmen, artisans and workers. some people will ask me: marco, what did you talk about yesterday in brussels? have you talked about how to help our businesses, how to get out of a crisis that will be devastating? no, i'll say we spent the whole morning talking about the amazon. but you talked about land grabbing, about china? no, no, we were talking about bolsonaro. obviously this parliament spends a lot of time focusing on criticism of conservative leaders around the world. we have seen the attitude of this house towards trump in recent years and the attitude it has towards legitimate governments within the european union itself, i am talking about poland and hungary. we have seen today references to bolsonaro as if the problems of the amazon were born with this government, a government that, among other things, has had great difficulties and problems in managing, like all of us, the coronavirus emergency. the neo-colonial attitude is clearly visible. we'll take care of it. we europeans are making trade deals with vietnam, which has much lower environmental standards than the south american countries. my group, my party, is also critical and severe about the trade agreement with mercosur, which will fortunately be scrapped at the behest of the south americans and which makes no sense and represents a trade model that is outdated. unfortunately, commissioner hogan tells us that no, they will go straight ahead, as if nothing had happened. the hypocrisy on our part, which also delegitimizes this parliament, and it is a pity because i am in the opposition, i have to play the bad guy here, but this attitude penalizes everyone and the citizens are asking for a different and more attentive approach.
mr president, the future of europe requires the european council and the member states to find common solutions to three key questions. the first is the common european response to the economic crisis, which will be on the table next week and for which guidelines are now needed. the need for a common response is strongly supported, but it must also be ensured that these investments are used in the most effective way to strengthen european competitiveness and sustainable growth. in this context, it is also necessary to decide on the repayment of the loan from the eu budget. in addition, member states must also find ways of ensuring that all member states are committed to the common democratic values and the rule of law. i expect that germany will also decide that in future eu funding will be linked to the member states' respect for common principles. it is essential for the future of europe. in addition, the european union's member states are still divided by the fact that we do not have a common approach to immigration. i also expect that in the coming months, under german leadership, a common approach will be adopted.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank very much all the honourable members for taking the floor. i was quite extensive in my introductory remarks, so now i can be much briefer. i would just like to react to the four most frequent issues which have been highlighted by the honourable members. the first is the sense of urgency mentioned by mr mureşan, by mr lamberts and by mr andresen, who made reference to ‘zeit, zeit, zeit’, and also to mr tajani, who highlighted how important it is to send a strong signal now. i think that this should be the absolute priority for our leaders. i think we cannot wait any longer. we need to get a deal at the next european council because that would be the best signal, the best response we can provide, first to our citizens. it would be the best response to the crisis. it would help us to secure jobs, and i think it would be a very important sign to our global partners, financial markets and representatives of industry that europe is back, that we are overcoming the crisis, we are introducing new policies and will be emerging from the crisis stronger than when we entered it. a second very important group of remarks referred to the social aspects, to the thrust of the policies to make sure that we would underpin the green and digital transformations together with resilience. there have been some question marks on how all this would be organised, so i just want to reassure all honourable members that the recovery plans would be drafted by the member states themselves. of course we want to make sure that the issues, the accumulated problems which have been building up in all member states year by year would be tackled. gradually we would be removing them and by that we would really be achieving the resilience which should be stronger in our member states and for the whole european union. the commission will, of course, be in a close iteration process with our member states and we are ready to inform the european parliament, as we always do, under the consultations, under the structured dialogue, under the hearings, when it comes to the european semester process. the european parliament will have strong oversight over all expenditure as it does right now when we are reviewing expenditure on an annual basis. this was also, i would say, the thrust of the remarks by ms aubry, mr pieper, and also by ms hohlmeier, to make sure that this process is transparent and that the role of the european parliament is properly maintained. as ms marques suggested, i think right now we have the first meeting of our leaders and presidents under article 324 and, as i said in my introductory remarks, we are ready to make a proposal for institutional declarations which would really put in a very clear framework how we see our close cooperation among the institutions on the important parts of implementation of next generation eu and the mff in the future. the last point, which was raised by ms virkkunen, who was our last speaker, but also by mr benifei, ms hayer and mr cormand, was on own resources. indeed this is a very important question, because we have to propose new ways of how we are going to pay, with money which would be raised on financial markets, to finance our resilience and recovery instrument. we are considering, as was highlighted, the emission trading system; also the carbon adjustment mechanism, but also an own resource based on operations of enterprises in the european single market and the digital tax. we continue to work on our plastics tax and on some other ideas which are coming along in this process of deliberations and discussions. what we want to propose to you is that we are ready to work on the roadmap, on how we want to assess, when we want to propose, and how we want to debate these potential new resources because we know that it’s important for this parliament. it’s also very important for the national parliaments, because as you know, if we want to increase the ceilings of our resources and financing, we need to get the support of all eu member states’ national parliaments. so to conclude, i really would like to thank you for your support, for the sense of urgency, for your readiness to cooperate in the very dynamic way which would be needed for the next semester. i’m very much looking forward to our debate. once again, be assured that the role of the european parliament will be properly maintained.
thank you very much vice—president šefčovič. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – deciding upon a future european budget is crucial for the future of europe. we cannot postpone the discussions anymore and we need a decision that will generate a constructive budget that will match the tasks that are in front of us. the recent proposal of the european commission adds some positive ideas regarding especially the recovery plan but we also need to look at the long term objectives. we need to focus more on innovation, education and the sustainable development of our societies while using the successful results of the cohesion and agricultural policies. the european leaders have to go beyond their party-political interests and really live up to the challenge. in a more national note, i believe romania should keep its allocation of about 50 billion euros in the mff and receive more grants in the 33 billion euros planned in the next eu generation programme in order to reduce the gaps with the rest of europe and manage the impact of the covid-19 crisis and of brexit.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the council of the commission on a comprehensive union policy on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing commission action plan and other current developments (2020/2686 ((rsp)). i would point out to the honourable members that there are no spontaneous exchanges of words or no blue cards in this debate.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is a first for me today, a very special moment. i have been a member of parliament for 22 years and a minister of state for europe for seven years, but i have never been able to speak before the european parliament. i'm not doing this ad personam, i'm doing this for the council. i am very grateful for this opportunity and i look forward to the next few months. i am always at your disposal and i look forward to working with you in a constructive and critical way in these difficult times. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is one of the key issues of the german presidency of the council. it is also a subject which, as we know, the council as a whole is very committed to. the european parliament, the council and the european commission have worked closely together in recent years to create an effective system for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. we have made considerable progress here, not least in the legislative field, and this is of course due in particular to your commitment, ladies and gentlemen. i would just like to mention the amendment to the directive on combating money laundering, the banking package, the regulation on the european banking authority and the new legislation on criminal law and the use of financial data for law enforcement purposes. but, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, that is really no reason to rest on any laurels, we are still being reminded all too often that there are still alleged cases of money laundering involving european banks. this must be unacceptable to all of us! in the meantime, there has been a wide-ranging political debate within and between the institutions of the european union on how to make our framework for combating money laundering and terrorist financing even more effective in the future: what to do, where do we simply need to improve? the commission's proposals are a good example of this, but they cannot be confined to the present situation. i would like to mention a few examples which also show how we have been involved. in december 2018, the council agreed on a concrete action plan to combat money laundering, the implementation of which we continue to monitor. in december 2019, the council adopted strategic conclusions, in which it invited the commission, inter alia, to explore ways and means of achieving greater harmonisation in the area of anti-money laundering. the question is to examine the advantages and disadvantages of a supervisory body at european level. the most recent example of our commitment is the council conclusions on improving financial investigations, which were adopted on 17 june - a few weeks ago. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we agree that we need to make substantial progress. on 7 may, the commission presented its latest package of measures to combat money laundering. it contains the commission's action plan and, in particular, very important legislative proposals to be presented in the first quarter of 2021. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we intend in particular to make a thorough examination of the commission's action plan and to provide the commission with further guidance in the form of council conclusions. we hope that these conclusions will help the commission in the preparation of the legislative proposals it intends to present next year, so that we have a system to combat money laundering and terrorist financing that has the greatest possible impact. there's really air up there. i have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that in the preparations for this item of the agenda, you, the members of this house, the whole of the european parliament, the commission and the council are equally aware of the urgency. moreover, i wish all of us the utmost political ambition to tackle the great problem of money laundering in the european union even more effectively than we have done so far!
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to present the commission’s approach to fighting money laundering and terrorist financing. we have made a clear commitment to deliver a comprehensive approach to fighting dirty money, to better protect our economy and financial system in the future. this is one of our top priorities and i know that they can count on your full support. the commission fully shares the european parliament’s view that it is high time to create an effective enforcement policy in this field, where all the pieces fall together and where the roles of the private sector, and the competent authorities in the member states and in the eu are clearly set out. the commission adopted an action plan on 7 may on a comprehensive policy to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. this ambitious and multifaceted plan sets out measures that the commission will undertake over the next 12 months to better enforce, supervise and coordinate the eu’s rules on combating money laundering and terrorist financing. our aim is to shut down any remaining loopholes and remove any weak links in the existing eu rules. any flow of money of dubious origin, any company created without a real business behind it, any offer from a suspicious investors to buy property – these all create opportunities for criminals and we must crack down on each and every one of them, wherever they are in europe. our first and most critical objective is to make sure that everyone in both the private and public sectors applies the relevant rules rigorously. the commission is doing its bit. we have launched numerous infringement procedures to ensure full transposition and application of our two core directives, the fourth anti-money laundering directive (amld 4) and amld 5. since i took office in december, the commission has referred three member states to the court of justice for non—transposition of the fourth anti—money laundering directive. we have sent out three reasoned opinions for the incomplete transposition of the fourth directive, issued four letters of formal notice for non-conformity in the transposition of the fourth directive and 17 others for non—communication of measures under the fifth anti-money laundering directive. we have also closed nine cases for non—communication under the fourth anti-money laundering directive, recognising the important efforts undertaken in some member states. aml rules must be effective. that is why commission proposed in may to issue country—specific recommendations to 11 member states in this area. the european banking authority now has additional powers and i expect it to use them in full. in terms of the next steps, i would like an eu aml supervisory body to conduct systematic on—site checks in member states. we need to build up our preventive capacities. but we also need to go further and strengthen our rules and tackle remaining weaknesses. let me highlight some key issues. cases of online money laundering are on the rise. authorities in all member states should have the powers to freeze suspicious transactions of this kind. however, we are also aware that the way rules are currently implemented is not optimal for legitimate businesses. clearer and risk—based rules will avoid companies facing unexpected consequences due to divergences in the way rules are applied. our rules should not make life harder for honest operators. honourable members, the commission fully concurs with you – national supervisors cannot supervise rules on their own. this has become abundantly clear from the string of scandals we have recently witnessed. dirty money is highly mobile. if it is dealt with in one member state, it moves to another one with weaker supervision and enforcement. dirty money should have nowhere to hide. this is why we will have to establish eu—level supervision. an eu supervisory body would require direct supervisory powers over the riskiest financial institutions, with oversight for the non—financial sector. different options for eu supervision are possible, as set out in our consultation. we may propose a new eu agency or add to the responsibilities of the european banking authority, depending on the feedback we get and on our own assessment. however, if the european banking authority is to become the eu supervisor, both its track record and governance will have to improve. let’s be clear, an eu supervisor cannot effectively enforce aml rules in the eu unless additional flanking measures are in place, and they are critically needed in three directions. first, our work towards better preventing and fighting money laundering will be supported by the european public prosecutor’s office, europol and eurojust, but also through better protection of whistle—blowers with a comprehensive new regime that member states will need to transpose by the end of next year. second, we will set up a mechanism to improve how suspicious flows of money are tackled and reported and better coordinate this analysis across member states. we know that too much money laundering takes place across borders. third, aml does not stop at the eu borders, so strong rules and enforcement in third countries is also essential. not all countries, however, have strong regimes in place. the new methodology issued alongside the action plan provides the eu with the necessary tools to take action. in this respect, i commend the positions taken by both the european parliament and the council with respect to the delegated act on the list of high—risk third countries, which recently entered into force. to conclude, to effectively fight money laundering, we need to act in multiple directions. let me assure you that the commission is fully ready to play its part to ensure that our internal market and financial system are protected from criminals. the commission thanks the european parliament for steering as this debate towards a successful conclusion.
on behalf of the ppe group. other money laundering is crucial for criminal networks to make illicit profits. as a union we need to be stronger in the fight against all this. it is not enough to have paper money laundering laws, they need to be enforced. criminal banks are often allowed to continue to operate despite clear evidence that they are facilitating money laundering. and accountants' companies, such as nexia bt, are allowed to continue in a parallel world where there are no laws to stop them. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's anti-corruption strategy and to provide information on the implementation of the eu's anti-corruption strategy. in malta, daphne caruana galizia was killed because the institutions failed to do their job. we need to rise to the occasion and ensure that no person is left alone in the middle between criminals and their illegal profits.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, money laundering and the financing of terrorist organisations are the two faces of a powerful and dangerous enemy. that is why there must be no dark areas in the european union's commitment, and i personally have at least two that i would like to highlight: first of all, i am concerned that some political parties want to screen ngos a priori for ideological reasons only or because their corporate name is 'non-profit'. i think that the greatest possible transparency is needed, both in the relations between ngos in the exercise of their activities and in their sources of funding. it would guarantee legality for all. there are also some member states which unfairly pursue aggressive fiscal policies, have very permissive legislation on the use of public money and, in addition, guarantee protection of banking data which is practically impenetrable by international police forces. i think that this is unacceptable and must be corrected immediately.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the who is saying that the pandemic is accelerating, the peak has not been reached. and what is the european parliament's response? a resolution on the european health strategy after covid. you went from responding poorly and late to the pandemic to closing the issue: covid is over, we're already in the post-covid era. but that's not all, because in today's resolution on coronavirus you manage to include a number of things: the link between covid and climate change, references to the fact that ethnic minorities would be more affected, when instead everyone, especially the elderly, was affected, an inevitable shift to the lgbt world and contraception, which have nothing to do with the coronavirus, and finally an indecent praise of mes. but you 're very good at one thing: increase the seats. yes, because under the pretext of the pandemic you want to multiply agencies, task forces and organizational units. in fact, the citizens felt the need for new carriages and new bureaucracy. we need answers now, not useless propaganda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has shown us the need for greater cooperation, integration and solidarity in public health. so this european strategy is acceptable, but at the same time i think it is too ambitious and unrealistic because to implement it requires a spending capacity that is unsustainable for most european and non-european countries, not to mention the war that is taking place and the business that is being created around vaccine research. so there is no point in planning new health strategies unless we first make a big political choice, which sees investment in health, research and welfare not as costs, but as a response that we must give to our citizens, who ask us to be treated in the best possible way, with high medical and health standards, regardless of the macroeconomic conditions of the country in which they live. the stability pact must therefore not only be suspended, it must also be definitively cancelled after the covid emergency. austerity is a political virus that has infected the union and threatened to destroy the european project forever. if we can defeat austerity once and for all, we will not only have the european health union but we will also be able to deal with any other crisis at european level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a good thing that europe is monitoring the respect for human rights in the world. but it should also investigate and, above all, perhaps more vigorously denounce violations of fundamental rights which take place in its own country, on its own territory in the community. violations that are increasing exponentially as a result of the mass migration from countries of islamic tradition and faith, which bring with them illegal, archaic and sexist practices. i am referring to female genital mutilation (which has already occurred in 600 000 cases in europe, 70 000 of which are in germany alone), forced child marriages and practices such as the imposition of the veil, against which women in iran - the black-shirt country of human rights - are fighting today at great cost, in the deafening silence of the international community. the report by mr de gucht, which i am sure will be of great interest to the house, is a very good report, and i hope that it will be followed by a number of other reports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, in your report you call for dialogue with the turkish government, expressing an incomprehensibly accommodating attitude towards a regime which has always violated human rights and international law and is responsible for the continuing conflict in syria, which has already caused 400 000 victims and 11 million refugees. erdoğan is allied with the syrian jihadist terrorists, who also use him as mercenaries in libya, violating the arms embargo here as well. for years, it has received billions from the european union in pre-accession funds and to stop syrian refugees from coming to our borders, but today it is blackmailing us, demanding more funding and a free hand in the middle east and north africa for its expansionist aims. in the eastern mediterranean it has carried out aggressive actions against cyprus and greece and inside turkey it is violating democracy and human rights with an authoritarian regime that represses dissent and discriminates against the christian and kurdish minorities. the european union and the un have been shamefully inert so far. today it is our duty to condemn once and for all these violations, to impose the appropriate sanctions and to stop all cooperation because neo-ottoman turkey... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, coming from a mediterranean country, i can rightly say that this cradle of european civilisation plays a crucial role for the security and well-being of all european citizens. when its security is threatened, we must react as one. we feel the menace that our european compatriots in greece and cyprus are facing from the provocative actions by turkey. these actions are violating international law and creating tensions and conflicts with the european union. in recent months, we have seen similar behaviour regarding the refugee crisis and the attacks on european borders. that time, we sent a strong message that we stand strong and united in protecting our borders. this behaviour should stop immediately. i call for dialogue and the search for a european solution, as it is only by a dialogue that we can avoid a further escalation that history will not forgive. the mediterranean has, without saying, the world’s most important shared heritage. we call on turkey to take on board european values in order to find a way to build a shared future between us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in turkey, in erdoğan's turkey, we are faced with an authoritarian spiral, with a lack of respect for democratic values, with the removal of mayors, of opposition representatives, of members of civil society. all this is incompatible with our values. erdoğan is not only a problem for what he does inside turkey, but also for what he causes outside it: we think of the role it has played in the appalling situation in libya, in syria and against the kurdish people. we must not forget the reckless use it makes of the presence of refugees, including in relation to european countries. but we must ask ourselves one question: what is europe's role in this? what is our responsibility? we must condemn erdoğan, of course, and we must continue to condemn him very clearly, but we must also know that erdoğan has found a vacuum, created by the culpable absence of strategic choices by europe, first of all in relation to the centrality of the mediterranean and the lack of a strong global policy for the promotion of human rights.
in writing. the confidence in eu-turkey relations has been lost for good, with the sole responsibility of the turkish side. today, president erdoğan is still accusing the eu of not having received anything for refugees, when we are well aware that almost 6 billion european funds have been disbursed to turkey for this purpose. the incitement to the hybrid attack of thousands of migrants on evros last march, the illegal drilling in the eastern mediterranean, the continuous violation of the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, the signing of the unfounded turco-cypriot memorandum, the questioning of the treaty of lausanne, the threats to the eu, the insult to the ecumenical character of hagia sophia are part of a deliberate policy of turkey, which undermines any attempt at dialogue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are in a position of strength and we must prove decisively as a union that we can implement all the sanctions against the turkish side. we cannot continue to allow turkey to threaten us, while you, mr borell, high representative of the european union, instead of conveying to ankara the climate in brussels and the need for turkey to refrain from any aggressive action, appear as a neutral mediator in greek-turkish relations.
author. – madam president, with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to proceed with the chemicals strategy for sustainability. chemicals are everywhere. they are in our food, in our water, in our clothes and in our cosmetics. they are in the air that we breathe. in other words, they affect all aspects of our daily life. our first priority is to upgrade the level of protection of the consumer and the environment. for this reason, we are asking for the elimination of risk-hazardous substances and substitutions to safer alternatives when it’s feasible. we call on the commission to take into account the risk posed by endocrine disrupters and the combination effect of different chemicals. commissioner, we are focusing on a very ambitious target by aiming to set the chemical safety standard for the entire world. the european chemicals agency (echa) should support the eu’s international trade policy by defining provisions and fostering regulatory systems built upon eu standards for chemical safety. this would enhance protection beyond the eu borders and extend the level playing field. chemicals are also the industry of industries. a size—based grouping approach will enable the industry, in complementarity with the ‘one substance, one assessment’ principle. this strategy must also grant sufficient time for the industry’s manufacturers in order to deliver safe and performing products and incentivise the eu industrial production and economy. in this regard, the strategy should secure adequate funding to accelerate the development of innovative and safe alternatives. the strategy should also ensure that unnecessary animal tests are avoided, incentivising the development of smart testing strategies and artificial intelligence methods. however, everything is not dependent on this house. everything is not dependent on brussels and on brussels’ political will. that’s why we also have to increase the level of implementation of the existing eu legislation on chemicals, asking the member states to fully implement the current legislative framework in order to provide a safe and sustainable environment as well as a competitive european market. in this strategy, we have three critical allies – the three agencies: echa, the european food safety authority (efsa) and the european medicines agency (ema). firstly we must avoid overlap between these three agencies. secondly, we have to secure their adequate funding by providing additional resources. i would like to conclude with the need for the chemicals strategy for sustainability to be aligned with the two main aspects of the green deal. the first one is green and the second is digital. in this regard, we fully support echa’s initiative to promote the establishment of a fully-connected and interoperable eu chemical safety database platform to facilitate the seamless sharing of data between authorities and to provide public access to researchers, regulators, industry and the citizens at large. κυρίες και κύριοι συνάδελφοι, επίτροπε, κυρία πρόεδρε, η στρατηγική για τα βιώσιμα χημικά μπορεί να οδηγήσει τη γενιά μας και τα παιδιά μας σε ένα μέλλον με λιγότερα προβλήματα. μπορεί να οδηγήσει τη βιομηχανία σε βιώσιμες λύσεις με πολύ χαμηλότερες επιπτώσεις στο περιβάλλον. αρκεί τα χημικά προϊόντα που εισάγονται από τρίτες χώρες στην ευρωπαϊκή ένωση να έχουν ακριβώς τις ίδιες προδιαγραφές με αυτά που παρασκευάζονται και καταναλώνονται στην ευρωπαϊκή ένωση. η αγορά είναι παγκόσμια και το στοίχημα για τα βιώσιμα χημικά αφορά τον πλανήτη, αφορά τη ζωή μας.
member of the commission. – madam president, today’s debate and the resolution you will adopt tomorrow on the upcoming chemical strategy for sustainability come very timely and i would like to thank you for the opportunity to reply today to the issues you raise in your oral question and to give you a brief update on where we are with this strategy. as announced in the commission’s work programme for 2020 – we have updated recently to respond to the corona pandemic – the chemical strategy is planned for the third quarter and we are currently working towards an adoption at the end of the third quarter this year. internal discussions and preparatory work are still ongoing, so i’m sure you will understand that the information i can provide today remains general and that i cannot yet go into any details of the upcoming strategy. the chemical strategy for sustainability is one of the key deliverables of the green deal and one of the priorities, of course, within my portfolio this year. when we adopted the green deal last december we all agreed to ensure a toxic-free environment. the strategy had a twofold objective. first, it should help to protect citizens and the environment better against hazardous chemicals and it had to encourage innovation for the development of safe and sustainable alternatives. this twofold objective has guided our internal preparatory work from the very beginning and has also made it clear from the very start that to better combine health and environmental protection, and increase global competitiveness, all parties and stakeholders have to work closely together. this also applies, of course, to the commission, which is why my services, my team and i are preparing the strategy in a very close cooperation with many other dgs, cabinets and commissioners involved in this very horizontal, i would say, topic. i appreciate that in the resolution that you will adopt tomorrow you equally acknowledge this horizontal character of chemicals. you highlight both the need to act towards a safe and sustainable use of chemicals, but also the essential role of the chemical sector in reaching the multiple targets of the green deal, such as the zero-pollution ambition, climate neutrality, energy transition, the promotion of energy efficiency and the circular economy. let me already thank you for the considerable work and effort you have put into this important resolution which, as i said, comes very timely. once adopted, we will examine it very carefully and take it into account when finalising our chemical strategy over the next weeks. we will, of course, also take into account the over 400 comments and contributions we received from stakeholders and citizens on the roadmap for the chemical strategy, which was published for feedback from 9 may until 20 june of this year. let me now provide you with some more elements on our upcoming chemical strategy for sustainability. the strategy is based and will build on a number of policy evaluations and previous initiatives linked to the eu chemicals legislation and in particular the second reach review from 2018, the fitness check of chemicals legislation from 2019, the communication on endocrine disrupters from 2018 and the communication on options to address the interface between chemical, product and waste legislation from 2018. to reach our main objective, the strategy will particularly focus on the following five elements. first: strengthening legislation for higher health and environmental protection from hazardous chemicals. despite the great achievements of eu chemicals legislation, we urgently need to step up action, in particular to better protect vulnerable groups, to address the combined effects of chemicals, to tackle endocrine disrupters and persistent substances. second: boosting innovation and competitiveness. we need to incentivise the development of safe and sustainable production and use of chemicals. the transition to ‘safe and sustainable by design’ represents a major opportunity for the eu’s innovation and competitiveness. at the same time, a strong and sustainable eu industry is an important asset for the eu to contribute to global sustainability. we also need to support the recovery from the economic crisis, build resilience and ensure strategic autonomy in the supply of essential chemicals in europe, for instance for health applications or technologies critical to achieve climate neutrality, digital transition, clean and safe material cycles and zero pollution. third: streamlining the existing framework. our legislative framework is overall fit for purpose, but also complex, and in some cases inconsistent and slow. this is a challenge for both stakeholders and authorities. we have the opportunity to rationalise and simplify and make it more effective, including by moving towards a ‘one substance – one assessment’ process. insufficient enforcement and poor compliance are also major bottlenecks, preventing existing legislation from attaining its full potential. fourth: intensifying research and knowledge on the impacts of chemicals on health and the environment, but also ways to better process and share this data and information for regulatory use, but also for consumer information or industrial use in the supply chain. one key area is the tracking of hazardous substances in articles to achieve non-toxic material cycles and ultimately a circular economy. finally, strengthening the global dimension. it is important that the eu becomes more and more an example worldwide of standards on sound management of chemicals to strengthen international standards and support third countries in the safe production and use of chemicals. once the final chemical strategy for sustainability has been adopted by the college, i will, of course, be happy to come back and present it to you and i already look forward to working very closely with you to implement it, because the work will, of course, not finish with the adoption of the strategy, quite the contrary. for now, let me thank you for your attention and i look forward to the views of the political groups.
madam president, in its communication on the green deal for europe, the commission announced its ambition for a 'zero pollution' environment free of toxic substances. in this context, reducing exposure to hazardous chemicals is of course a major issue and the body of legislation regulating chemicals must be a bulwark for citizens and the environment against the major risk posed by some of these substances. through our resolution, parliament is sending a clear and ambitious message, firstly for full implementation of existing legislation, but also for the development of legislation in many areas. strong measures for health and the environment are needed and we must take responsibility for them. we want health to be put before the economic interests of certain industries. what is sustainable chemistry? it is necessary to adopt precise criteria to define it, otherwise sustainable chemistry will be just a concept that industries will use to 'greenwash' their activities, to the detriment of the health of citizens. a more sustainable chemistry is not one that generates more and more income for the shareholders of the chemical industry, but one that fully integrates the objectives of public health and biodiversity protection. this is achieved primarily through the reduction of hazards from chemicals, by replacing the most dangerous substances with safe alternatives, and through increased transparency of the authorisation process, which also takes into account the social and environmental costs, particularly for persistent chemicals. the cost of the chemical industry to health today is €160 billion a year. if these costs were borne by industry, i can assure you that the substitution with alternative substances would go much faster. so that is where we have to go.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, our resolution sets a course for you today: the course for the sustainable strategy for chemicals, which the commission will therefore present to you before the end of the year, with an objective which we obviously share, namely to strengthen the protection of the health of citizens and the environment, an ambitious objective: 71% of chemicals manufactured in the european union are classified as dangerous. so the commission - because we have had some leaks - wants to strengthen the regulatory framework, that is good news. it is, of course, aimed at reach in particular, with a grouped approach for similar substances in particular to speed up the risk assessment by our european chemicals agency. one small thing in this respect: this logic by family must also apply to the restriction procedure for dangerous substances, phthalates, to name just one example, banned in children's toys, allowed elsewhere. we are told that the commission is also considering new criteria for risk management. european legislation must of course protect against endocrine disruptors, against neurotoxic substances. i am thinking here of the many workers who are exposed to solvents or heavy metals on a daily basis. finally, it is essential to act against pfas, these perfluorinated compounds found in foams, teflon pans - not to mention food packaging. pfas, because they're mobile, because they're persistent, very persistent, they're a real danger to our health. the european union must move forward, commissioner, with the phasing out of this class of almost 5 000 chemicals. i would also like to note, and conclude here, that last december the dutch government put the question, the debate, to the council. so the window of opportunity exists, and we must seize it.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i actually see several criticisms in this strategy, starting with the overly ideological approach. if we want concrete results for the environment, we cannot demonize a sector such as chemistry - an excellence at european and italian level and above all a sector already advanced in terms of sustainability - by imposing additional unsustainable burdens. without a pragmatic approach, we risk hitting european chemistry and then finding ourselves importing the same products from outside europe, from where the standards we impose are not guaranteed. it is therefore a short-sighted attitude which is harmful to workers and our businesses. we must not forget the importance of relocating chemical companies and their production to europe, an objective which must not be pursued by imposing fake green taxes, just to make money, but by means of instruments which favour the sector, bringing back to europe the capacities we have left abroad. without pragmatism and balance, we risk only penalizing a strategic sector for the whole of europe, a sector which should instead be actively supported in its transition to even more sustainable production.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the european parliament is calling for nothing less than a paradigm shift in european chemicals policy for our health, a toxic-free environment and the sustainable restructuring of the chemical industry. the european commission must pursue a zero-tolerance strategy towards toxic chemicals in the environment. the commission has just this week published new figures in germany: one in five children - and this is alarming - is highly exposed to chemicals in everyday objects. the burden is so great that long-term damage cannot be ruled out in one in five children. in particular, hormone-altering chemicals such as bisphenol a and co. and perpetual chemicals such as pfas must be banned as a group. but ambitious chemicals policy does not only protect our children. it is also an opportunity for a european industry that is not sleeping in on the future. clean chemistry in europe can not only create a clean environment for people and nature, but also stabilise 1.2 million sustainable chemistry jobs. we are expecting an ambitious strategy from you, commissioner.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, as a shadow rapporteur, i’m sorry to say that i am not in agreement with a lot of the compromise amendments. if all the amendments are approved, the regulation will be extremely punishing, especially for the small and micro enterprises. i’m very familiar with this matter, given my 35 years as an entrepreneur with strong experience in the reach regulation, occupational safety and health, cop regulation and producer responsibility. there are some extremely problematic points, among which the juridical nightmare of a regulation that wants to change another regulation like the cop and occupational safety – this is an extremely complex and expensive burden on the effects of combined or multiple chemicals which is very difficult to handle. the introduction of the concept of ‘no data, no market’ is very dangerous for a lot of smaller companies and the impossibility of finding better alternatives to banned substances in a short time. i’m a strong believer in the concept of banning dangerous substances, but the direction this regulation has taken will create massive competitive disadvantages for all eu companies, especially the small ones. again, the focus is on the companies which are already heavily regulated, and nothing is said about what comes out of private homes.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'welcoming must always be done in accordance with the law and must therefore be combined, where necessary, with firm repression of abuses'. it is in the words of pope john paul ii that the deepest meaning of the concept of inclusion is understood, understood as a process made of rights but also of duties. unfortunately, today the term "inclusion" has become synonymous with giving up our values and our way of life, almost as if to include the other is to change ourselves. this is what happens to the roma, who have created criminal networks in our country, evading the census, while we are all registered, and who exploit their children, forced to beg, who are even denied the right to education. this is where the state must intervene, fighting the degradation of roma life in our cities. we must not be hypocritical, we must respect the law and our cultural values, for integration is not an unacceptable cancellation of differences.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must have serious legislation to guarantee the rule of law through certain rules which do not give rise to discretion. we do not want this valuable instrument to be used for political purposes. i therefore call on the council and the commission to provide for clear and certain rules, with criteria for defining violations of the rule of law that are clearly defined and based on measurable and verifiable indicators, as well as a preventive monitoring of the problems on an annual basis. we do not want to see further restrictions on macro-conditionality imposed under the rule of law, but we must ensure the principles of legality, legal certainty and the independence of the judiciary. we are therefore prepared to support a text which is an effective instrument for ensuring that the values of europe and its citizens are protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank all my colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report, which is intended to highlight the european parliament's recommendations in the run-up to the negotiations for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and new zealand on the exchange of personal data between europol and the new zealand authorities responsible for combating crime and terrorism. as we all know, terrorism is still a serious threat today and the fight against these criminal acts is a top priority, not only for the european union but for all the member states. we have mourned too many victims in recent years, fellow citizens who have become the casual target of unprecedented hatred and violence, and we owe them our commitment. the inclusion of new zealand among the countries with which to start cooperation follows the christchurch attack of march 2019, also considering that the european union and new zealand are partners that share the same principles, vision and approaches on many aspects of global scope. to date, europol and the new zealand police have signed a working agreement providing a framework for structured cooperation, but a legal basis, which is essential for detecting, preventing and prosecuting terrorist offences, is lacking. in my report i set out a number of objectives which will have to be pursued in the course of the negotiations in order to allow the use and transfer of personal data for security reasons, while ensuring the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. in this context, i believe that the text which will be put to the vote represents the right combination of the two requirements, reminding us that the fight against terrorism and its international dimension deserve our full attention and our political and legislative commitment, and i hope that the house will give concrete recognition to this tomorrow.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the identity and democracy group, and in particular the lega-salvini prime minister movement, have often been accused of wanting to destroy the european union. it 's not like that . we do not want to destroy the european union, but to improve it. i myself, on 26 october 2019, sent a letter to president sassoli asking for the constituent process of the european constitution to be resumed. the answer i received from the president confirmed the need and the will to continue in this direction, stressing the centrality of european culture. the european union must be reformed or rather reborn; it must not be a europe of nations but a europe of peoples. we remember the great venetian people, or the friulian, bavarian, catalan, basque, breton and so on people. we should not speak of a european culture, but of a set of cultures and peoples that make it up. the attempt to stifle and eliminate the different specificities can only lead to the inevitable failure of the european project, a failure which we do not want. only full respect for the culture and history of individual countries will lead to a genuine european union. a european culture can only be created by going beyond the national interests that compose it, and individual identities are the added value and make europe great and unique, with almost 500 million inhabitants. this is why european culture must become a priority in the framework of european policies and form the main pillar of the future european constitution. there can be no european union without respect for the rules and individual identities, without respect for the will of the people, even if this is inconvenient for the european high finance and bureaucracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, culture cannot be forgotten. the creative and cultural sectors are strategic: we need a new deal for culture, starting from the emergencies of these months, the facts of social distancing, empty cinemas and theatres, production blocked. culture means content but also work, often precarious, and industrial realities. the commission's recent proposal for the next mff does not meet the challenges we are facing: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. next generation eu can create links with other sources of funding, promote partnerships and synergies. european cultural diversity must be at the heart of the new development model: we need to work to strengthen existing programmes, such as creative europe, and maximise the opportunities of the recovery fund. we are waiting for concrete answers.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about policies for social cohesion and for the good of the peoples of europe, we cannot help but recall what has just happened and what is still happening in relation to the economic and social crisis caused by the coronavirus. so much talk and proclamation, but so far so little action. it's better to promise little and deliver than to make big announcements. more flexibility is needed and only then will it be possible to bridge the gaps and promote a détente that leads to greater equality. greater investment is needed to close the social gaps in some regions, to protect and promote local specificities and identities, and to foster convergence and cohesion. this is the challenge facing the european union and we shall see if it is able to meet it. i hope that the sad lesson of covid has been learned, otherwise european social cohesion will deteriorate to the point of no return.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for all european citizens: we are voting for a major change, one we have been waiting for for decades, from the short-sighted policies which europe has pursued, disappointing, penalizing and impoverishing millions of its citizens. as an italian and a european, i thank president giuseppe conte for the excellent result achieved at the european council and my colleagues in the five star movement for the synergy created with him and the valuable work done. next generation eu must mean enough, forever, of the austerity policies that have impoverished the poorest and created de facto discrimination between citizens of different states and different races. we turn the page and we have to turn it all the way. so watch out for the cuts in the programs, which we hope to correct. this shift cannot be limited to the post-covid emergency, but must be the paradigm of the europe that will come: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. let us therefore commit ourselves to keeping the promises made today, without ever going back, in the spirit of the founding fathers, without whom europe would have no reason to exist.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank president michel and president von der leyen for being here today. this is a very important discussion, but without a premise it risks losing its meaning: in the last 20 years, the european institutions have introduced a complex set of rules that are incomprehensible to our citizens, a set of rules that helped make europe, even before the covid emergency, and especially at that time, the slowest growing region in the world. not having a moment of self-criticism on this is a serious problem in my opinion. it is clear, as many have said, that the agreement reached at the european council is macroeconomically significant, as we all know. even the supposed benefits for my country are still not entirely determinable: we do not yet know how we are going to finance these measures, and some of the assumptions we make are worrying because they risk undermining some of the productive sectors which are still important and which need support. on the contrary, we already know what the european commission will recommend to my country: he's gonna ask for cuts to pensions, health care and social services. i do not want us to be here in a few years to say that the pension cuts in italy have financed the production of electric scooters in china. i would not like this veil of hypocrisy, which has been drawn from maastricht to lisbon and continues to this day, to be unveiled at last, because it risks giving the impression to the citizens that the crisis and its gravity have not been understood and that solutions such as these are just a useless panacea to solve the problems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, over the last 20 years italy has been a net contributor to the european union's coffers of some 160 billion, if we limit ourselves to a simple arithmetical sum and not capitalized and also include direct and indirect contributions to support countries in financial difficulty, including instruments such as the edf and the esma. for those who have really done the math, and not with colored lenses, perhaps blue with outline stars, it is very clear that this time too italy, at the end of the entire complex next generation eu program, including the odious compensations due to the continuation of rebates, will continue to be a net contributor, even at the cost of literally slaughtering fiscally and socially, with primary surpluses, citizens and businesses, who would bring herds of angry rhinoceroses to their knees. i therefore invite those who are talking about the marvellous advantages that italy has achieved at the european council, including those who are now reaping great benefits by becoming net importers of tax residences of companies in the euro area, to do their homework first and then clean their mouths before making unnecessary remarks about my country. president von der leyen, if a country defaults on its debt in these years, who will pay for it the debts contracted under the next generation eu programme?
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the tragic experience of the health emergency has made us realise that instruments such as european civil protection must necessarily be strengthened. in fact, it is not possible to forget that at the height of the crisis in italy, and despite the requests of the ambassador, no one - and i stress no country in the european union - responded positively to the request for help. the aid has indeed arrived, but only from small countries such as albania or even from distant cuba. this, ladies and gentlemen, must not happen again. that is why we believe that the rapporteur's proposal, which seeks to strengthen this instrument, must be accepted and is heading in the right direction. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner lenarčič, who is not here tonight, and his offices, of course, for the great commitment and availability which he has always shown in answering my questions and letters. although the commission has also made european civil protection available to strengthen monitoring at italy's borders along the balkan route, the minister of the interior of my country continues not to ask for it to be used, condemning the citizens of my region, friuli venezia giulia, to continuous waves of migration and then having the border police operate without the appropriate protection instruments. it is a strange thing to hear from a lawyer, but in this case the european commission has tried to meet the needs of my citizens more than the italian government, which, unfortunately, has been totally and culpably absent on the balkan question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, over the last four years the 28 now 27 member states of the eu have been the world's second largest supplier of military equipment, accounting for 26% of total exports. these are important figures which, on the one hand, demonstrate the competitiveness of the industrial sector, but on the other, call into question the guiding instrument for the granting of export licences, that legally binding common position which is often, almost always, not respected because there are no consequences for infringements. i strongly believe that this process must be accompanied by as many instruments of control, finally community, going beyond the common position. we have done a lot for defence, creating the new european defence fund and talking about military mobility, but this cannot go hand in hand with the introduction of a common export regime, including a monitoring body and a robust sanctioning mechanism for all governments that are violating. we need to do this to be credible, if we really want to be that global actor, that champion of peace and diplomacy that we so often declare.
madam president, mr vice-president, we are discussing today the implementation of the council's common position on arms exports to third countries. if we are honest with ourselves, this common position remains a wish list. a typical example is turkey: in the last two years alone, we have had illegal invasions of syria and an illegal invasion of iraq, the violation of the arms embargo in libya - where turkey even threatened frigates operating in the framework of operation peace - the violations of the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, and of course a threat of war - the well-known "casus belli" dating back to 1995. the council has already called for the common position on turkey to be strictly applied since last october, but nothing has changed. we therefore ask you, in the amendment we have tabled, to take the initiative to stop european arms exports to turkey. the european arms cannot be used to threaten two of our member states. and what you have to do is the least bit of solidarity, and it has to be done immediately.
madam president, this parliament has repeatedly called for arms exports to saudi arabia to stop. but these calls are ignored. spain has a long tradition of arms deals with saudi arabia and the government of mr sánchez, keeping up with this tradition, has authorised sales for about 400 million in 2019. deals with the saudis are the family business of the spanish royals, a business that operates under the complacent watch of all spanish governments since 1975. king juan carlos’s affairs with his saudi buddies are now finally under investigation, but not in spain – in switzerland. what are the spanish authorities doing about this? nothing. they not only refused to investigate, they participated in the cover-up. they sent the king to abu dhabi to hide away from swiss justice and they keep on selling weapons to the saudis. this must stop. corrupt interest in member states cannot take precedence over our moral obligations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the trade in and export of arms must be guided not only by industrial logic but above all by european foreign policy strategies and, in this context, by strict respect for human rights and our fundamental values. we must therefore improve transparency and parliamentary control and define a sanctions mechanism to ensure that the rules are fully respected. the situation is very worrying indeed: we have to tell each other. we think of the fact that several member states continue to export weapons and tools used for internal repression to egypt, a country where the absence of human and democratic rights is blamed, and this despite a decision of the european council in 2013, which is blatantly ignored. or the business - let us think about this too - always linked to the arms industry, which too many do in turkey, or what is happening in libya. the control of arms sales is certainly not the solution to all problems but it is an essential element in sending clear and strong political signals which are sorely needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president erdogan, in order to extend islamic hegemony to the eastern mediterranean, is not missing an opportunity to threaten the european union and to challenge its economic interests and its cultural values. in july, in an act of open hostility to europe's christian roots, he converted the hagia sophia in istanbul into a mosque. in august, however, it deployed 25 warships to probe the oil fields around cyprus and the greek islands, attacking the athenian fleet, which was defending its exclusive economic zones. it is clear that we can no longer tolerate these provocations. president macron, despite the serious threats from ankara, did not hesitate to act with words and deeds, aware that the escalation wanted by erdogan could have dangerous consequences for all the mediterranean countries. the conte government, on the other hand, is undecided about what to do, increasingly subservient to dictators and increasingly on the margins of international politics, evidently more concerned with welcoming illegal immigrants than with protecting the security of the italian coasts and the borders of europe, borders which, as far as we are concerned, turkey must never cross.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the terrible explosion which devastated beirut on 4 august is rapidly leading lebanon towards a bloody anarchist revolution, one which destroys without building. it is certainly europe's task to propose solutions to help the country of the cedars and not to leave political space to states such as turkey or iran, in a strategic country in the middle east. but the european union's intervention must be subject to certain conditions: lebanon is facing corruption and a clientelist system that needs reforms demanded by civil society itself. the european union must control how and by whom funds for first aid and for the reconstruction of beirut are used. the proposal of those who would like to bypass the money through ngos also leaves some puzzlement, in the light of the criticism of the european court of auditors regarding transparency of the accounts ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the commissioner say that we need a more coordinated approach on covid: well, it is the middle of september! let's just say the timing is off the mark. the european union has been nonexistent and ineffective. i 'll take a quick picture of you . each country manages the health emergency autonomously; there is no coordination with the european union and often not even with neighbouring countries; the borders are closed without any clear logic. quarantines are imposed differently from one state to another; there's no clarity about when and to whom to tampon; the 15-day quarantine for the positive is now in question. i mean, it was total chaos. you said, commissioner, that we must introduce common lines: you're wide awake! we are in a paradox. i heard earlier from the european council that, you know, they're doing a really hard job with meetings and meetings on covid. too bad they're the same ones who cut 7.7 billion euros from the health program in the middle of the pandemic: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. as for immigration, italy, accomplice of the unworthy government, supports the arrival of thousands of immigrants, many of them positive for covid. the european union does not care. there is no common assistance, no distribution of refugees, no solidarity. in short, the borders are there for everyone except for italy, which is forced to take on new health risks. i conclude: your inability to do so is simply proof that this europe is not working.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, six months after the pandemic, we as the european parliament rightly call again for greater coordination between the member states in the fight against covid. the union has shown great ambition and political will in agreeing on the resources of the recovery fund and eu next generation, but there can be no recovery unless member states extend the same approach to other aspects: health, labour, and the free movement of persons and workers; the commission has already made a number of proposals. european coordination is therefore essential to strengthen traceability capacity, including by establishing rapid pre-boarding tests on aircraft, ships and trains; we must establish the same quarantine times and the same sanctions for those who do not comply with the rules of isolation. we in the five star movement believe that the commission and the council can no longer hide behind the excuse of the powers laid down in the treaties to not act, because we do not have time for a comprehensive reform of the treaties. they must instead demonstrate the political will to redefine the health treaties and agree on the social and welfare model that europe urgently needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank president von der leyen, although i am very sorry that she has attacked the only real opposition in this parliament. i was very sorry not to hear self-criticism about the mistakes made on economic and trade policies by the european commission in recent years, and i was very sorry to see a misalignment with the propaganda that the italian government is currently making on the recovery fund, an italian government that will not be able to do everything it is promising to its citizens. i think that, in light of all this, it can be said that you are underestimating the crisis that we are experiencing and that we will experience in the coming months, that you are underestimating what the united states is telling us about china. it is shocking that you have not mentioned, for example, on the international geopolitical scene the agreements which israel, thanks to the incoming administration, is concluding with some arab countries, and it is shocking that the courage is still lacking in china and turkey. you see, my family comes from fighting fascism, so i'm not afraid of its threats. when my grandfather knocked mussolini's statue off the city hall in 1943... he had no idea what he was getting into. i also want to respond to mr weber, who quoted the leader of my party: yes, matteo salvini, a true italian patriot. he is a man of the people. he is an italian patriot who defended the frontiers of europe and who will be brought before a court in catania on 3 october. if this is your idea of democracy, i prefer to be attacked by you and rest assured that the answers will always come from me and above all from the citizens who are behind us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fire in the refugee camp in moria, which housed almost 13 000 people, is a typical example of a predicted catastrophe, which occurred because of the european union's indifference and culpable inertia. the moria refugee camp is the failure of european migration policy, which culminated in the disastrous 2016 eu-turkey deal, an agreement that the dictator erdogan never respected and which effectively turned the greek islands into an open-air prison. turkey has been provoking europe for months in two ways: the european union has been unable to provide the necessary financial support for the greek authorities in the past, and the greek authorities have not been able to provide the necessary financial support for the greek authorities in the present. we must not give in to the threats of turkey, which is not and never will be europe. i can only agree with what president von der leyen said yesterday, that migration policy is a challenge for europe and that the countries most exposed to migration flows, such as greece and italy, must be able to count on the solidarity of the whole european union. next week the european commission will present a new pact on migration and asylum: i hope that the european commission's new proposal is not just a campaign ad but that it will be translated into concrete action and rapid action. europe cannot be absent at this stage.
madam president, madam commissioner, the situation of moria should never happen again on eu soil. these leftovers, as you mentioned, are indeed shameful and still today we need to address the root cause of migration by framing a real eu policy in our neighbourhood where migration originates. syria, libya, sahel and sub-saharan africa – we cannot remain absent. so we need definitely to introduce a new control of european funding to governments and ngos with quality standards. we need to provide legal and safe ways in eu consulates and embassies – for example, even in turkey, which is a safe country to receive refugees – and make sure they can approach the eu. third, strong conditionality for european member states that share the burden in solidarity but also to make sure that we will use economic leverage for those eu member states that do not share the burden. and fourth, i do welcome the commitment to abolish the dublin regulation, by ursula von der leyen, but still there is a contradiction since the epp encompasses parties from member states with mentalities like orbán’s in approaching the migration crisis.
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that i have visited refugee camps many times. next week – i invited you but you can’t come – i will go to dunkirk not far away from here, because another ‘jungle’ is starting to unfold there. honestly, these camps are a shame for europe. i always say, if we put our dog or our cat in such conditions, animal rights organisations would be at our door, but we put human beings in camps like that. next week, you will come with a new migration strategy. i have one specific question for you because a lot has been said by my good colleagues. i want you to pay a lot more attention to the unaccompanied minors. you know that europol stated that 10 000 went missing in europe. please, commissioner, pay specific attention to these children. if we don’t protect them, who will? (applause)
madam president, thank you for being here, commissioner, but let me tell you, moria is not an accident, it is the concrete result of migration policies and the lack of asylum policies in the european union. moria is not new, it has been for several years, although everyone tries to close their eyes and moria is the most visible result of what has been a shameful policy. while we are here talking about thousands of people who are still without a home, without medicine, without food, and among these people more than 3,000 children are still sleeping rough, and we need, in fact, to bring to our political intervention what has been missing. these people cannot be subjected to zero dignity, zero humanity, as if they were not people like we are. i would like to see the same rejection of arms sales to the conflict areas from the european states that i see when they reject these people trying to reach european countries. this is the result of our shame, but it doesn't have to be this way. please don't let another camp be built in moria. let's finally have a policy of solidarity and respond to these people now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, have you seen the burnt-out field of moria? a runaway girl asked her father: "is it true that we're going to die?" what can a father say? what do you want a father to say? but we must respond with extreme severity. the sad spectacle europe is offering is unacceptable: what a sad sight! it is a moral and political imperative to call now and immediately for the immediate evacuation of the camp and the acceleration of the relocation from the islands to the member states, especially the most vulnerable minors. it is good that merkel is committed to welcoming 2,750 people from the islands: but we need a change in the daycare system. let 's be clear . i would like to say to the governments that the credibility of the institutions is at stake here. the rules have to change: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a voluntary relocation of the beneficiaries of the aid. no need to build new camps, no need! what is needed is structural reform, and it is needed now, not decades from now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is certainly the world's leading authority on one thing: the time it takes for its leaders to argue. but in the end decisions must be taken, because the citizens expect decisions and unfortunately we are forced here once again to comment on the council's too many indecisions. i am referring, for example, to the european response to the health and economic crisis. threats by selfish countries to slow down the next generation eu are unacceptable, especially as the european parliament, this assembly the only institution democratically elected by citizens has repeatedly shown the way. if the council would listen a little more to this parliament and a little less to the cars coming now from budapest, now from the hague, we would certainly make progress. the same goes for foreign policy: it is good to discuss this, but ultimately belarus and turkey must respect fundamental human rights. if we are weak towards dictators outside the european area, we encourage the "dictators" at home to do the same and that would be the end of it. europe needs courage and determination to be, as citizens demand, a beacon of freedom and social justice in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law not only protects the democracy of the european union but also defends the budget of the european institutions and therefore their way of working, their way of functioning. the council's position is that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council's proposals are implemented. the european union is not an atm machine, nor is it a neutral institution that distributes money outside the rules: hungary received approximately eur 47 billion from the european union between 2013 and 2020, one third of its annual gdp; poland got 207 billion euros. this is not acceptable! what would be, what would be left of the european union without democracy? what would be left of the european union without a transparent and sound budget? what would be left of the european union without justice if some states disregard democracy and silence parliaments? we need strict probation!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, forests and woodlands cover 43% of the union's surface and directly employ more than 500 000 people and indirectly 2.6 million. 60% are privately owned and managed by the member states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. a new forestry strategy is therefore required, with at least three priorities. first: integrating sustainable forest management and the multifunctional role of forests based on environmental sustainability first and economic and social sustainability second. secondly, to include the forestry strategy as an integral and independent part of the new european green deal. thirdly, to take concrete action to stop both global deforestation and possible new privatisations at the expense of national parks and to encourage not only reforestation but also the sustainable management of forest resources. we therefore believe that the cap can play a crucial role in sustainable and multifunctional management and that funding for forestry measures and the development of the bioeconomy should be increased in rural areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, forests are one of the greatest expressions of nature, but in the name of a vicious development we are destroying what we should be preserving for future generations. i think the report approved by the agri committee is innovative, because it states that the forestry strategy is one of the pillars of the new green deal and that it is essential to provide economic and regulatory instruments to protect and expand existing forests. we must then choose to abandon old patterns. we in the five star movement believe that biomass must be eliminated from european and national energy strategies, as must hunting, which can no longer be considered a source of income or a recipient of european funds. we are aware that more than two million workers are in the forestry economy, but that does not necessarily mean that they are exploited in an unbridled and indiscriminate manner. the virtuous role models are the foundation for building a european ecological framework. so, it's a huge challenge and it's counter to what's happening in the rest of the world today. only europe is seriously pursuing this objective, with the active participation of its citizens and its productive and social forces. this is the model to be built for a true green transition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of climate change, of the need to protect nature, of the urgency of protecting the environment. we're all on the front lines, no matter what. but the european union's approach, let me say, europe has a somewhat ideological approach, it is somewhat subservient to greta's slogans and it has a potentially harmful approach for the continent. yes, i said harmful. because your policies risk bleeding economies to death in the face of results that, frankly, are negligible in terms of reducing emissions. let 's be clear . in order to achieve the results you have in mind, you are in fact forced to impose ethical or green taxes, which are a real blow, which will have a very heavy impact on businesses and workers with relocations, impoverishment and wage cuts. let me give you an example. in italy, to apply this regulation in the way and at the time you envisage means introducing new taxes, new bureaucracy, sacrificing entire italian production chains, in favour of whom? - what 's that ? chinese scooters, french or german cars with chinese batteries! in short, you have in mind sustainable development - so defined - which is only for european countries, because you are completely silent with asian countries, such as india and china, with whom you continue to conclude trade agreements without saying anything, and i say nothing, about the environment! so, we are in an economic crisis, in europe more than anywhere else. what do you do? push for measures that risk amplifying this crisis. think about it! is this not the time for new taxes and new obligations and, by the way, to whom? the ones who can't move on. this is not about protecting the environment but is an environmental ideology made up by european bureaucrats.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has set the member states the objective of achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 with the european climate law. this constraint provides for close monitoring by the commission, a pretext for genuine control over national policies. the objectives are clear, but nothing is said about the social and economic costs: we think about the inevitable loss of competitiveness of our companies compared to countries like china, india and the united states, which do not share the climate goal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a sustainable manner. the energy transition requires gradual progress, sharing and substantial financial support, which our companies do not have at present. the fight against climate change must be fought by safeguarding our businesses and above all by remembering to save them from bankruptcy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note that there is a cross-sectional condemnation of the erdoğan regime today, by the same groups who then vote in favour of the pre-accession funds. but that's okay. last september, hostilities resumed in the troubled caucasus region of nagorno-karabakh, reigniting a long-dormant conflict that has been raging for some time. it is still unclear who started the conflict, although there are doubts. but beyond the concern about the involvement of civilians caught in the bombing, there is concern that foreign powers, such as russia and turkey, could intervene directly in the area, setting off an escalation with a far from certain outcome. we are well aware of the fact that azerbaijan is an important economic partner for europe, including italy. but at the same time, we know that small, proud armenia is the first christian nation in the world and the first to suffer a genocide in modern times at the hands of the ottoman empire, which some still deny. we therefore call on the high representative, and with him the entire european union, to rise from the asleep, to take a clear stand in favour of the process of self-determination of peoples and to support strongly fundamental rights and peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are shocked and appalled by the escalation of violence in nagorno-karabakh in recent days. we share the words of high representative borrel and his calls for a ceasefire and dialogue between armenia and azerbaijan. however, we are very concerned about turkey sending syrian jihadists to fight alongside azerbaijan: we are also concerned about the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet been able to take action against the hundreds, according to some sources even thousands, of syrian rebels close to the islamist movements, who have been sent to fight in that turkey which continues to destabilize entire geographical areas, from libya to syria. in order to call for a firm position on the part of the european union, i co-signed, together with 48 other members of parliament from all political parties, a letter calling on the union to take a firm position on turkish interference in this conflict. it has already been mentioned that armenia is the first christian nation in history and its people were the first to suffer a genocide in modern times, precisely by the ottoman empire at the beginning of the twentieth century. ladies and gentlemen, let us not abandon our armenian brothers, who are once again victims of sultan erdoğan's neo-ottoman dream.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, i cannot conceal my dismay at such a dismissive approach to this matter. today, more than 5 million venezuelans live outside the borders, forced to flee by hunger and repression, cynically turned into weapons of power control by the regime. the world bank defines "poor" as an individual living on about 2 euros a day: venezuela's current minimum wage is less than half of that, with the international monetary fund estimating inflation at 15,000 percent by 2020. i would also like to send a message of closeness and solidarity from this house to the italian and european citizens living in maduro's venezuela, a country without drinking water, without gas, without fuel, without industry, without resources or hope. and when we talk about sanctions, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that the venezuelan people suffer a very heavy one every day: this sanction is called communism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, many of my colleagues have said this: to obtain false confessions, mass arrests, torture, the rights of opponents and women trampled underfoot by a regime that has its own citizens as its enemies, not to mention minorities and the state of israel. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. yet the money to fund militias in syria, iraq, hezbollah and hamas is not lacking. the gravity of what the american administration is telling us must be brought to the highest attention in brussels, because i and many others had also welcomed the nuclear agreement very positively. but to think that it is still applicable today, in my view, is a mistake and perhaps naïve. for the same reason, i believe that the agreements between israel and some sunni states should not be underestimated. i mean, something in that area is changing, and we certainly have to support the possibility of regime change in a state that, we all mentioned, does not allow people like navid afkari to defend themselves freely. he cannot be with us today because he was hanged: yet he was probably right to protest against that regime.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot help but quote the famous latin phrase of giovenale, quis custodiet ipsos custodes, to express my disappointment at the wirecard scandal. paradoxically, germany, which is presented to the world as a model of efficiency and rigour, is all too often the centre of huge scandals, from siemens to volkswagen, from tax credits on dividends collected twice to libor manipulation and opaque derivatives, the latter thanks to deutsche bank. this time, however, with the wirecard scandal, the trust of the entire sector of payment cards, including prepaid cards, which are widely used by the younger and economically weaker, is being undermined, just as the non-use of cash is increasingly being imposed. in italy, for example, but also in many other countries of the european union, some popular credit card circuits that relied on wirecard as a server did not work for days, creating not a few problems in full covid emergency, with the result that many users were not even able to make the purchase. the ecb has also been active in promoting the use of cash in its monetary policy, including the introduction of the euro as a reserve currency. we read in the international media that there were macroscopic conflicts of interest between bafin employees and trading on the same wirecard stock, generating discomfort and the more than legitimate suspicion that those who were supposed to control had both eyes closed. what role have auditors and rating agencies played in certifying the balance sheets of listed companies? are they distracted too? it should also be noted that wirecard also has a banking licence and is therefore subject to the strict supervision of credit institutions: was it on time like the other banks? it is therefore necessary to restore a minimum of trust and credibility to the european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, luxleaks, the panama papers, fincen, scandal after scandal, it is clear that europe and the states always find good reasons not to annoy their big banks. financial crime is a lucrative business. this is all the more scandalous in the current economic context and in the looming crisis. what has happened to european political courage? the one who was supposed to protect the taxpayers and the real economy from financial mismanagement? the fincen scandal proves the conscious involvement of the big european banks in money laundering. these unacceptable practices must not go unpunished. how can we ask citizens to follow a code of good conduct when we let big business run its course without any sanction? the fincen files should motivate and inspire ambitious reform of the european financial system. it is time for the commission to put in place rules to govern the practices of the major european banks. all illegal financial transactions which damage our economies, our example and undermine our founding values must be punished. i ask you to impose real controls and dissuasive sanctions commensurate with the abuses. let's not give banks the right to cheat any more than we gave the carbon economy the right to pollute.
madam president, financial scandals are being perpetrated one after another, with their accompanying opaque transactions, illegal immoral practices involving astronomical sums of money unimaginable to ordinary mortals, and here is another example. and i wonder what kind of society we live in when such practices are greeted with a shrug or resignation by european leaders. so obviously we have to say our anger because the fincen files reveal criminal transactions since 1999. there were guidelines, which were obviously not followed. especially since there are banks that have pawn shops on the street. deutsche bank 62% of fraudulent transactions, out of the two trillion. hsbc, which had made promises about anti-money laundering, is now up to its neck in cash. so we must not just be outraged, but we must also take action, by turning anti-money laundering directives into regulations. because it is clear that there is a failure of the national regulators. we must take action against those responsible. i think that, as the european parliament called for in 2019, we need to put a truly european regulator with real human resources above national regulators.
i have to say, madam president, another financial scandal. we're losing track of the situation. in order to put an end to this whole money laundering and taxation scandal, we need two things, despite the wave of liberalization: strong centralised controls and strong uniform regulations. the fact that money laundering transactions can take place is partly because banks decide for themselves which money transfers they consider suspicious and which they do not. in fact, banks do not even have to stop transfers that they themselves consider suspicious. the fincen files also showed that the reports of suspicion are often filed so late that law enforcement can't really do anything about it, because 166 days was the average. 166 days, and the money's gone. that is why we need strong supervisory authorities, preferably a european fbi, well-trained staff in the national banks themselves and harmonization of national anti-money laundering laws.
madam president, we are again facing a major scandal –eur 2 trillion that has gone in money laundering and the big institutions like deutsche bank are really affected. but what strikes me is that ok, we have the information, it’s a new investigation – for which we have to thank the journalists – but now we need to act and here is where we really meet a problem at the european level: we have to do much more. there are three things to mention to the commissioner that i think are extremely urgent: firstly, as many of my colleagues have said before, we need these intelligence units to fight money laundering and to fight financial crime. it’s not in the action plan, but we need it and i think that this parliament is united behind that idea. secondly, as mr sven giegold has mentioned before, when we have a serious problem at member state level of enforcing our framework against money laundering, we need infringement procedures, and it would be good, commissioner, for you to tell us when you will start doing that. finally, and i will end here, i think it is a real shame that the council has taken the cayman islands out of the tax haven list this week. this is something that our citizens cannot understand.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fincen files show once again the failure of anti-money laundering rules in the face of the enabling conduct of banks and financial operators, who continue to profit from crime. european anti-money laundering legislation is not sufficiently implemented in too many eu countries: this is all the more serious and unacceptable at a time when the economic catastrophe caused by the pandemic is opening up huge spaces for criminal organizations to operate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to this end i had asked, so far in vain and in the complete indifference of all the political groups, for the establishment of a special european parliament committee to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption, which are increasingly intertwined and are a growing threat to the rule of law in the countries of the union. after the establishment of five special committees, i hope that in the near future the political will will will be developed to give priority to this issue if we are to defend the rule of law and the real economy from the assault of criminal powers.
i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the european union. more than half of covid deaths occurred in long-term care facilities, nursing homes, senior citizens' homes and homes for the disabled; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. and this has happened in several countries of the european union: i am thinking of course of my region, lombardy, where a black page has been written, with the failure of the social and health system and a shocking death toll, in the nursing homes and also as a result of the unfortunate choices of those who manage welfare. it is essential that the european institutions shed full light on what has happened, not only to identify the obvious political distortions and responsibilities, which it is right and sacrosanct to identify, but also to avoid witnessing the same tragic scenario repeated in these months. that is why we need a more social europe. the commission must believe that even more: the right to health and care. we need more investment, new choices to deal with this second phase of emergency without making the huge mistakes of the past, and finally, we need to think about how to re-design the services themselves in the future. we must do this by involving the best and most significant third sector players, trade union organisations and citizens' associations. the people who live in nursing homes and homes for the disabled are also europe: they deserve more community spirit and social bonding and less neglect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in italy too, as in all of europe, the impact of the first wave of covid on long-distance travel has been more severe than in other health and professional fields, thus forcing us to make all operational protocols more rigorous. in this new phase, however, the protection of the sick and elderly in care homes will be ensured above all by the number and training of medical, nursing and paramedical staff who, today as in the past, are at the forefront of assisting the most fragile patients and their families. i would like to thank once again this group, which, with self-denial and personal risk, has kept italy and literally all the nations of europe alive at a particularly dramatic moment. among them are many young health workers full of energy and passion: they are our future, and we need to invest in them to effectively tackle this new pandemic season, avoiding the excessive workloads and stresses of the first wave. as a young mep i bring to the attention of this house the need for greater incentives and funding for the training, stabilisation and careers of these young doctors and nurses, who are often deprived of the economic and professional recognition they deserve for their irreplaceable work. in italy, the pd/5stelle government, which often supplements concrete measures with rhetoric, has called them heroes only to forget them, demonstrating myopia and inability to plan strategically. in the next three years, in fact, italy will be short of 10 000 doctors. yet the ministry of education has just suspended the competition for medical schools, thus extending the time taken to enter hospitals and penalizing doctors and patients. i am sure that the european union can make a difference in this respect. we therefore ask for your effective and practical contribution to supporting the health personnel in italian and european nursing homes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. the starting point is rightly ethical reflection from which appropriate laws must emerge. we cannot allow the ethical threshold of ai systems to fall below that of humans. artificial intelligence is going to present many challenges. one scenario to consider is its misuse by criminal and terrorist organisations. there is a risk that the software that manages the ai will be sabotaged or tampered with. it would be naive to think that cybercrime and cyberterrorism will not make a quantum leap with the evolution of artificial intelligence systems. theft and smuggling of data, hacking, infringement of industrial copyright, sabotage and hostage taking of ai systems. this is not science fiction. this has happened before. if we are to protect the patents that operate the systems, we must also make them accessible to those who conduct investigations, such as judges and police forces. in the past, companies that have encryption systems have blocked or even denied access to those investigating terrorist groups and criminal organizations. i therefore want the commission's text on the ethical aspects of ai to strike the right balance between the transparency of systems, the right to privacy of citizens, the need for investigations to combat criminal organisations and the protection of copyright.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the milan office for this link. the dsa should strengthen the liability and security regime of internet service platforms and online marketplaces and consumer protection, also considering the possibility of more stringent regulation of behavioural advertising, favouring less intrusive forms and not requiring extensive traceability of the user in relation to the content he views. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the aim is to prevent monopolies and to open up the market to new players. in addition, the final text explicitly refers to the obligation to use the opt-in tool also for political advertising. this may be useful in the case of advertising products or services, but political advertising is neither a service nor a product and each member state has its own specific legislation in the field of political advertising, so this reference is unacceptable to us. another point of contention was the idea of creating a new european supervisory agency with investigative and enforcement powers. the compromise has fortunately led to the cancellation of the initial proposal, but it remains a strong concentration of the system of supervision and control at the head of the european union to the detriment of the sovereignty of the individual states, which must remain intact. i also think that the reference to e-speech, disinformation and fake news has been miscontextualised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy and we can make history, because nothing like agriculture can restart europe torn apart by covid, create development and jobs, improve the environment and promote our national excellence. unfortunately, parliament should dare more, and win the backing of some member states which are always conservative in the council when it comes to greening, stability, sustainability and innovation. no cuts, clear position on eco-schemes with an appropriate percentage required. we need more ambition on intensive farming and animal welfare, including organic and precision farming; accelerate digitization to reduce emissions, increase product quality and work towards an honest labeling system that promotes all this, abandoning the disastrous nutri-score and respecting made in, made in italy in particular. we need to act against the corporal in a smart way. the farmer and the worker must have the same interest in a regular agreement, with advantages for those who behave well by including social conditionality. so cut the pay to those who don't respect workers. the new cap must be a change for the better and not a perpetuation of the social and cultural barriers which restrict the take-off of our agriculture. i am therefore pleased with the extension of the planting right for vines and the inclusion of hemp in the standard markets, but i hope that the standard will reach 0.5 per cent and that all the member states, starting with italy, will be obliged by european regulations to break the cultural prejudice against this sector, which will bring enormous environmental, social, economic and cultural benefits, including against the mafias. it is a battle that must be won together, in which we will not retreat an inch.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these months of debate on the cap i have heard talk of a 'new cap', but if the new cap that is being put forward consists of regionalisation, of allowing member states to manage funds as they wish in the face of various social and environmental objectives, of further enriching those who already own large estates, or of standing idly by in defence of our agri-food excellence and including the nutri-score, i sincerely believe that millions of citizens and farmers would do without it. we in the five star movement call for a modern, ambitious, environmentally friendly and european-led cap. we want the funds to reach those who really live off agriculture, with internal convergence redistributing wealth to small and very small producers and external convergence based on mandatory capping and strict compliance with environmental and labour standards, precisely in order to break up the monopolies that create distortions in the internal market. i believe in a cap and in an agricultural sector which can finally really respect the basic labour standards and also the pillar of social rights. a real link between the cap and the farm2fork and biodiversity strategies is essential, but with clear, ambitious and realistic objectives to gradually abandon all forms of intensive exploitation and achieve food self-sufficiency, based on a new balance between man and the environment, for a nature to be preserved and left to future generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new cap must first of all safeguard the centrality of agriculture to society and the economy. the fight for an environmental tax is a sacrosanct one, but it must strike the right balance between environmental standards and support for productivity and competitiveness. we therefore need common sense and flexibility, which we would like to see in the regulation on strategic plans, because the future national plan cannot add to the bureaucracy and cancel out good practices established by the regions, such as the managing authorities. i would remind you that there are already de facto sustainable productions, such as rice in italy, and i would stress that reducing the real meat production in europe by encouraging imports from third countries is likely to cause more damage to the environment and consumers, rather than alleviating them. the same applies to tobacco, which must be included in the list of products eligible for european cap funding. the covid crisis, ladies and gentlemen, has taught us that excessive dependence on third countries in the industrial field is a weakness that europe cannot afford. we do not make the same mistake with agriculture, we support sectors such as wine and honey and we help our farmers to get back on their feet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the future agricultural policy, a part of the resources allocated will be conditional on respect for environmental sustainability, a mandatory conditionality which must not be at the expense of the productivity of our farms. it is not possible for large agricultural countries such as italy, spain, france and germany to be subject to the veto of european countries where agriculture is of less importance. the competitiveness of our farms requires greater protection of the protected designation of origin pdo and pgi. our typical products are the winning weapon, both in terms of production and in terms of economic performance, against the standard products that globalisation has tried to impose on us at all costs. there can be no future for the common agricultural policy without the protection, the financing of our products and the recognition of the work of generations on the land, which has made these products a world-renowned excellence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing police brutality in europe, but i have never heard the opposite debate since i have been in parliament, namely the assault on the police. in italy, every three hours a police officer is assaulted, which means eight assaults a day, which means 235 assaults a month. last year, more than 6,000 police officers were hospitalized for assaults, often by immigrants, and the number is increasing. but then at some point we come here to europe and they are even accused of brutality. like every category, of course, there are some who are wrong, so much so that they, think about it, ask for cameras on their uniforms. let's say the left tends to sympathize with criminals, instead of defending those who defend us every day. my group and i are always on the side of law enforcement and we also say thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, covid-19 has taken hold across europe and the world, and the heavy economic damage already done will continue for years to come. nevertheless, the european agenda continues to prioritise the fight against climate change, restricting all measures and interventions to unrealistic targets, instead of concentrating all efforts on avoiding the most likely and imminent economic collapse of the entire union. the only instrument that has proved effective and timely so far is the ecb's extraordinary programme of purchases of sovereign bonds, without which the euro zone would have been blown up. in order to withstand the impact of the pandemic crisis, the stability pact had to be suspended. what is needed today, therefore, is not new climate constraints on the european economy, but greater flexibility for investment and maximum support for member states' spending, through a strengthening of the ecb's mandate and the removal of the prohibition in article 123 tfeu. the banking regulations on credit risk management and the classification of non-performing loans should also be revised to avoid tightening credit policies of european banks, which is harmful to households and businesses. before calling for reforms in the member states, the european union must now reform its own treaties and objectives. only then will it be credible and resilient.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the social and economic effects of the covid-19 pandemic are plain to see. the impact on employment is unprecedented, with unemployment rising by two percentage points across europe. if we want to revive the labour market and employment, the appropriate instrument will certainly not be the introduction of new taxes to finance the recovery fund, because these will put further difficulties on the productive world. we must instead give concrete support to entrepreneurs, artisans, traders, tourists, vat-payers, all those who have been waiting in vain for help from europe and the member states in recent months. the number of businesses and businesses that have closed today is staggering and nothing, believe me, compared to what will happen in the coming months when the layoffs come to an end and hundreds of thousands of people are stranded in the middle of a street. europe will have to take care of these people and i do not think it is useful or wise to waste any more time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner gentiloni for his speeches today. in july last year we welcomed the recovery plan as a new beginning for europe, but a few months later some states are again blocking the budget negotiations, and this is serious because it marks a very strong distance from citizens and businesses. in fact, every day that passes, the billions of next generation eu are becoming less and less than what is needed to boost employment and production. strategic programmes such as horizon and the social fund risk being cut. the reception of sure yesterday was extraordinary on the financial markets, but there is still no clarity on the conditionalities. the minimum wage directive, which was due to be launched within the first 100 days, has been delayed yet again. the youth guarantee will not be the binding, universal and permanent measure on which so many young people could have counted. finally, we are still far from having decided how to proceed with the revision of the stability pact it was just a few hours ago even the european fiscal board supported its passage. we in the five star movement were instrumental in electing this commission a year ago, just as the italian government was instrumental in bringing about a decisive change of course in the european council. then we must insist on the need for early and effective action. it is time to take the plunge and do it now, because any further delay will cause enormous economic and social damage.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, on 11 march the who declared a pandemic, but after seven months of tangible results we still have too little compared to the expectations generated by too many announcements. the european council in april allocated 540 billion evviva sure but the 240 billion from the esm was not requested by any government, perhaps because the conditions were not really so favourable. the recovery fund was then agreed after much effort, and the long delays were blamed in a grotesque, even implausible way on those who did not even sit on the european council or the eurogroup. only two days ago the newspaper el país revealed that the madrid government does not intend to use the loan component of the recovery fund. some people were surprised, but we have tried to explain to you on this side of the hemicycle that the instruments which have been discussed for months probably have some problems. the european union - concluded the president - is very large, and when priorities are imposed from above, from brussels to the territories, this is the consequence.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been working hard on deforestation for almost five years, thanks in part to having been the first rapporteur in parliament's history on deforestation and palm oil. during that time, i have unfortunately experienced all kinds of delaying tactics from the commission and heard many fairy tales from representatives of third countries about 'everything is fine and we are doing our best'. i have to admit, i'm sick of it. for some time now, we have been witnessing the utter devastation of the world's forests and rainforests. and i'm not going to point fingers at anyone, because this is a global problem. but i consider it essential that the european union is part of it and therefore has the burden of finding solutions. it is impossible to do otherwise when we put palm oil in biofuels and european banks finance deforestation in third countries. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that her report will no longer be altered by those who think that putting their heads in the sand will solve the problems or by those who want to blame the whole complex problem on the consumer. ursula von der leyen touched on deforestation several times in her state of the union address, and i believe that the european parliament should not be afraid of an ambitious approach and should not change the opinion of the environment committee. and that goes for you, colleagues who elected ursula von der leyen to office, please respect her words and support our text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of this debate to the last speech, the world will have lost between one and two thousand football fields of forested area. in fact, global deforestation is estimated to have amounted to 1.3 million square meters from 1990 to 2016, or the equivalent of 800 football fields every hour. satellite data tells us that in the brazilian amazon, deforestation is advancing at much higher rates. we're talking about the equivalent of a football field every minute, and this trend shows no sign of abating. in the first four months of this year, the destruction of the amazon rainforest has increased by 55% compared to the previous year, but pointing the finger at bolsonaro's insane and criminal policies is not enough, the hunt for those responsible for this ecocide must start at home. the european union, through its consumption of products such as palm oil, soya, meat, rubber and wood, is responsible for 10% of global deforestation. it is time to put an end to this catastrophe, but the solution is certainly not to label products as deforestation-free and to leave the consumer with a choice, as some have suggested, but to ensure that products made by deforestation, conversion and degradation of natural ecosystems cannot be sold on the european market. this is why we need a legal framework based on due diligence and applying to all those who are involved in the supply chain of goods linked to deforestation, including european credit institutions which have had no problem in recent years in financing those who are destroying the green lung of our country. the european citizens do not want to be tarnished by this environmental crime.
the commission has already done so. ladies and gentlemen, we europeans have been working for many years to reduce our ecological footprint. of course, it is logical that we also look at the impact of our imports, especially our contribution to the loss of rainforests. that is why i very much welcome the initiative. but we must actually do something good with it, rather than just making a green fig leaf. the key to this is that the law is practical, that it is feasible and not just uncalculated risks and high bureaucratic burdens for our companies. firstly, we will continue to need and depend on imports: many fruits such as cocoa, coffee, tea and others do not grow in europe. secondly, the environmental contribution of such a supply chain law will only be positive if we continue to trade with the regions concerned and help them become more sustainable. we'll be shutting ourselves off by an unenforceable law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i am calling for a thorough legal impact assessment and a workable scope. i am equally opposed to the creation of incalculable legal risks. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of fire is a very good one. the forestry sector in our member states, on the other hand, is a world leader in the sustainable and responsible management of forests. it is clear that different standards must be applied here. it must therefore be clear that we cannot create additional burdens for our forestry workers with this supply chain law.
mr. chairman, according to global forest watch, every six seconds, we lose an area of forest equal to a football field, or about 7,400 square feet. despite the successes in forest conservation, the data from the food and agriculture organization in this year's state of the world's forests report highlights one fact: the fight to curb forest loss is not yet over. deforestation and forest degradation negatively affect a number of the european union's global objectives in different policy areas, such as the protection of biodiversity, climate change, human rights, peace and security, good governance and the rule of law. the european union is the most attractive global market. it's time to incorporate some positive environmental legislation and goals into our trade relations with the world. we must take measures to ensure that the goods imported into the european union are the least deforested product. i therefore welcome this initiative and i trust that the european commission will consider the proposed regulatory measures that we could take to reduce deforestation. my speech is 90 seconds long. in that time, ladies and gentlemen, 15 forests the size of football fields or 148,200 square meters of forest have been cleared. we can change that by our actions and -- let's start now.
the report on deforestation deserves our full support, mr president, because we are at a turning point in our history. for example, if the deforestation of the amazon region continues at this rate, by 2030, all the co2 that was stored there for billions of years will gradually be released back into the atmosphere. this will result in a 2°c rise in temperature in latin america and a half degree rise in the rest of the world, all because of deforestation in the amazon. so we're at a tipping point. we are all victims of a global pandemic today. we know why that is. because as humans, we're getting deeper and deeper into nature. the question is: where will the next pandemic come from? from the forests of the congo, which are getting smaller and smaller because of the extraction policies? or from the primeval forests of ukraine, where today a lot of trees are cut down, for example for our ikea furniture? it's been said here, but we can't stress it enough: 10% of global deforestation is caused by what we eat and consume here. what we do here has a huge global impact. so we must take responsibility! this report is therefore extremely important because it calls for legislation which tells companies very clearly where it stands. your products are more than welcome here, but they must be produced fairly, with respect for the environment.
mr president, the debate we are having today is indeed fundamental, because every year we lose a great deal of forest, the equivalent of belgium, in an annual loss of primary tropical forests, but that is an irreparable loss because primary forests cannot be replaced by planting more trees: forests are much more than trees. so it is absolutely necessary to act quickly. the european union is responsible for about 10% of global deforestation, and we need to address safe and global standards. this is, and it's not legislation against anyone, it's legislation for. it is legislation in favour of european companies that meet environmental and human rights standards and have to compete in a market with the disadvantage of doing so with companies that do not. it is legislation in favour of consumers, who have the right to know in a transparent way the supply chain of the final products they consume. it is also in the interests of consumers to ask for clear labelling so that we know that what we eat and drink does not come from deforestation or the exploitation of forests which are badly degraded. it is therefore also in favour of those people who die every year precisely because they defend the forests. and it's also going to help us understand that every time we cut down, every time we take an acre of forest, we're taking our lives. we are all victims, but we are all responsible.
mr president, i am delighted to be speaking to you from our beautiful city of strasbourg. as the world's attention turns to the amazon rainforest, another tragedy is unfolding in the general indifference: the deforestation of africa. the forests of the african continent are disappearing faster than any other continent. the population explosion is one of the major causes of this acceleration. cutting down trees to expand agricultural areas destroys biodiversity that is essential to the sustainability of crops. the phrase "cutting off the branch you sit on" has never been truer, dramatically truer. added to this are the problems we encounter elsewhere. for example, palm oil production, which is only just beginning in cameroon or the drc. a foretold catastrophe, when we know that this is where the congo basin rainforest is located - the second largest forest in the world, tomorrow reduced to nothing? overpopulation or over-exploitation, some africans may be completely overwhelmed. we do not talk much about it, but it is an essential subject for them as well as for us.
mr president, now is indeed the moment for european leadership, in order to make sure that we don’t have deforestation or child labour in our supply chains. i would like to communicate to you a message that has been sent today by major operators in this field, namely food producers such as mars and mondelez, who say that they, as major buyers of cocoa and other agricultural products, with longstanding engagement and continued efforts for sustainable cocoa, defend the report of ms burkhardt. they warn against the amendments that are put there to water down the idea that we need mandatory measures, because that’s what they want. they need mandatory measures because they know that voluntary mechanisms don’t function. they are not able to guarantee supply chains which are free of deforestation and child labour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that deforestation is being discussed in this parliament is in itself a good thing. the problem must be tackled, not ignored, as long as it is done away with the usual environmental extremism which does not care about scientific data. we know that our planet is getting greener, as scientific studies in recent years have documented. this is the result of some policy choices made long ago, and paradoxically also as a result of global warming. secondly, we know that the severe tropical deforestation cannot be compensated by the reforestation that is taking place in other parts of the world. we must therefore pay particular attention to the consumption of forest land, just to avoid imposing additional geopolitical burdens on european companies, because that would not be fair to them, especially at a time like this.
the european budget, mr president, is 1 233 billion for seven years, plus 25% if we exclude the british. the compromise between the council and the european parliament is another 16 billion euros. and now there is also a 750 billion euro recovery fund: the sky is the limit. who's gonna pay for that? (noise) (addressed to mr verhofstadt) i cannot hear you well with a mask on. the americans? (applause from the centre and the right) who is going to pay for that, mr. verhofstadt? the european citizen, through european taxes. a list of these taxes has already been drawn up: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of plastics is taken into account. but all of them will prove insufficient if we have to start repaying the 750 billion euro in 2028. do you know what will happen then, mr. verhofstadt? then new debts are created and we get a debt carousel. the european union is becoming a debt union, thanks to you. commissioner hahn, this budget may be called nextgenerationeu, but debtgenerationeu seems more appropriate to me. we are going to burden future generations with debt. i think that is irresponsible and therefore i am against it.
mr president, in the lower house of the dutch parliament, prime minister rutte explicitly referred to the european parliament as the institution which can hopefully improve a number of things concerning the european summit on the mff. the prime minister has therefore called on the european parliament to improve a number of things, because he himself failed to do so at the european summit. the dutch prime minister has in the past expressed himself less favourably about the european parliament, so i would like to say: thank you, mark. the european parliament has indeed made some important improvements. for example, in the area of the rule of law, where the rule of law mechanism has finally been established with a wider scope and with the provision that the council cannot postpone decisions indefinitely. i would also like to mention a number of other matters, including the additional research funds. if we are to improve our economy structurally, we need research and innovation. the increase of horizon 2020 is therefore very welcome in this context. i would also like to raise the question of the protection of the external borders. i predict that the member states which made huge cuts in the external border budget at the summit will ask why europe is not doing anything when the next migration crisis comes. so too are parties like mr eppink's. if you want europe to act, you must give europe the means to act. finally, i would like to draw attention to health, and in particular to the increase in the health budget, which was only logical in the midst of the current pandemic. i would therefore like to thank in particular my colleagues who have made this possible.
[beginning of speech off-microphone] ... negotiators struck last week was not even dry, when the minister of justice of hungary made her verdict public: she defined the rule of law conditionality as a political blackmailing tool. indeed, the statement is in stark contrast to the open cheering of prime minister orbán after the european council in july. to me, this was a good sign that spoke volumes, and with a clear trademark on it. while this parliament has no role in triggering the new mechanism, without this house there would be no strong conditionality between the eu budget and respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. this was a red line for my group. our negotiators fought to the end with the council, and with success. the agreement reached last thursday makes me proud to be a member of this parliament. being determined and firm, we achieved something unique and something that is there to stay. we now have a real, effective and enforceable tool to stand up against autocratic leaders trying to take down our democracies and blackmailing our union. we can finally put an end to leaders enriching themselves, their friends and their relatives with eu money. we created a smart mechanism to make sure the eu budget ends up in the hands of the people who it is meant for. as parliament, we kept our promise. we did not give in on our core democratic principles, and the empty bluff of autocratic leaders in panic will no longer hold the eu hostage. we are ready to adopt the agreement and to get started on an ambitious eu budget we have agreed on for the next seven years. now it is up to the commission and the eu leaders to make use of this, too. this historic agreement is important for all those europeans striving hard through crisis and the pandemic, making sacrifices every single day, and bad news for corrupt leaders trying to take advantage of it.
mr president, the word ‘historic’ has been used, i think, 100 times here in this plenary but for once, i think, we are using it in the right way, because my impression is that exactly 20 years after the launch of the convention, this is a real big step. why is this a big step? because we are in fact breaking three long-standing taboos in europe. the first taboo was no eurobonds, no recovery bonds – that was impossible. that was the call of the council and of everybody after the financial crisis. and what we will do now with this programme is launch nearly one trillion of these bonds on the market, and the first bond that has been launched is a huge success. the second new thing we are doing concerns own resources. i have heard for years ‘no, it’s impossible to have new own resources’ – for 10 years we have fought for that. it’s there and it’s not taxing the ordinary citizen, it’s taxing google, amazon, the big tech companies in america, imported products from china, which are in fact bad for our environment, and so on. so i don’t know what mr eppink has against taxing google and facebook and amazon – who is against it? not the citizens, anyway. and then there is the fact that there will no longer be money for authoritarians. but i want to give two short warnings. the first is to the commission. mr hahn, tell your colleagues to use now the tools. i hear already in the corridors, ‘now we going to use this and we’re going to try to find out if hungary and poland are in accordance with the system’... but you have to do nothing at all, that has already been proved! you have now to use it and not wait two or three years before doing it. and my second warning is this: let’s not stop the reform of the european union. there are other things to tackle: the lack of a european defence community, the unanimity rule, and the fact that we cannot elect our own leader. in america they can do it – not always easily – but we cannot do it.
mr president, it is happening in the us, it is happening here in europe, it is happening all around the globe. authoritarian leaders are trying to destroy the basic principles and the very foundations of our democracies. donald trump does not want to accept the outcome of a democratic election. viktor orbán is threatening to veto the eu budget over the rule of law conditionality. some people might think, oh well, if we just back off a little bit, if we just try to see this from their perspective a little bit more, it might all turn out to be a big misunderstanding. well, here’s the thing – it is not! this is not just a misunderstanding. these guys, they mean it. they are planning to undermine our democracy, our values, by spreading baseless conspiracy theories, by scapegoating minorities, by erasing all checks and balances we have built in hard-won battles over the centuries. this is on, and it is on now. that’s why we need to use every tool we have available in order to stand up to these attacks. the rule of law conditionality is not just a side note in these budgetary negotiations, it is a precondition. without it, the european parliament is not going to accept this budget. lastly, you can threaten us, mr orbán. you can try to intimidate us. you can send your trolls after us. we in this parliament are not going to be afraid of you. we have the backing of hundreds of millions of eu citizens with whom we stand side by side in the battle for rule of law, for democracy and for our rights. it is on and we are in it.
before we continue with the debate, i will open the voting period today. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 5 p.m. to 6.15 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as that used during the previous partsession. all votes will be taken by roll-call and members may check their votes and the results of the votes by consulting the document which will be published on the plenary session website. written explanations of vote may be submitted. exceptionally, only voting statements of up to 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting period open. you can vote until 6:15 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced by 9 p.m.
we now continue the debate on the multiannual financial framework (including own resources), the rule of law conditionality mechanism and the recovery fund for europe [2020/2858 ((rsp)).
mr president, europe is much more than the european economy. this agreement we are approving today is a good proof of that. for boris johnson or donald trump, europe was just a market to compete against. they were wrong. europe is its values and principles, against which there is no competition. without its values and principles, europe is nothing. that is why we are putting the rule of law before the market today. today we are creating a rule of law mechanism which will ensure that principles and values always take precedence over the market in this continent. it is born with the confidence of not being used, because what it seeks is not to punish anyone, but to protect us all. it is our alarm against authoritarianism; it is intended to protect us from present or future temptations by those who abuse power and it is intended that those who order what to say and what to think, what is true and what is not, do not dare to do so because they will find punishment. nationalpopulism, like all viruses, does not discriminate by border, race or gender. look, if you don't, at what is happening in the united states of america, where the most solid, stable and uninterrupted democracy in 250 years has not been able to prevent its incumbent president from not accepting an election result. if what donald trump is doing was done by the president of another american country, the us congress would already be talking about sanctions. that is what this mechanism is all about: putting democracy before economics. the rule of law is respect for equality between men and women; it is respect for diversity, for religious and educational freedom; it is respect for freedom of expression, for freedom of the press, for the independence of the judiciary. all of that is more important than the market. this rule of law mechanism is not born against anyone; it is born to defend us all. if any country goes against it, even my own, it must be sanctioned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the great success we have had in recent days in approving the multiannual budget, the reform of own resources and the european recovery fund, but above all we are celebrating the strength of the european parliament, the role it has played with determination, a role which is not subordinate or small compared to the council. and the result was: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but it's not just the numbers and the quantity that count, it's two other things that i want to highlight. the first is the system logic that was used for the first time, i would say revolutionary: the multiannual framework has been approved along with the own resources review and we can finally ask for heavy contributions from the multinational web companies, we can ask polluting companies to stop doing it and to pay taxes, if they happen to do it and they don't help us in the fight against climate change. the revision of own resources will allow us, in a logical package, to finance nextgenerationeu. this has never happened before, these are extraordinary responses to gigantic needs. we cannot be small when the demands are huge, we cannot back down when the demands are colossal. the second element is the relationship between budget and democracy: the budget is the beating heart of democracies, it's how we tell our citizens what we do and how we do it. we need a sound, clean and transparent eu budget to show where we are going. we need an ambitious budget to prevent this devastating crisis from spreading. as kamala harris, the first woman to be elected vice president of the united states, said: "dream with ambition, live with conviction". we will do this, and we will do it on behalf of our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i must say that the absence of the word 'islam' in the title of this debate, as well as in the speech just given by commissioner johansson, is a serious mistake. the fear of associating a religious motive with the terrorist attacks which have bled europe dry in recent days, as they have for the last 20 years, prevents us from preventing them, as well as from countering them. the fear of mentioning islam is the most striking demonstration of the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, which not only seeks to reap casualties among the infidels but above all seeks to change the way we think, live and express ourselves. the fear of mentioning islam prevents us from bringing about a secularisation of islam, from encouraging those muslims who want to live in peace in europe and legitimately profess their religion. the fear of giving things their name leads us to hide the cultural roots of our rights to freedom, which are religious: it's christian, don't pretend you don't know that! where do you think we learned to give caesar's things to caesar and god's things to god? who said we turn the other cheek if we're offended? who taught us to respect women, to consider them equal to men, and who commanded us to defend the oppressed? the fear of making the right choices, even in the face of illegal immigration, not only exposes the sides of our cities and our schools to terrorist violence, but at the same time prevents us from identifying upstream those who need humanitarian protection, who really want to share our value system, possibly without being forced to put themselves in the hands of the divers or risking their lives at sea, as has happened even today. we need to manage departures so we don't have to manage arrivals. we don't know how to tell you anymore! i'll end with a warning from a great italian writer, cesare pavese: "always remember that monsters don't die, what dies is the fear they instill in you". europe, take heart!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thought this debate would be an opportunity to deal with sensitive subjects such as the expropriation of the powers of direction and control by certain national parliaments, which in some cases creates scandal and in others does not, depending on the political colour. instead, we find a list of who would be naturally most affected by the pandemic, namely illegal immigrants, certain ethnic minorities, gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals... i am sorry, but this mania of creating lists of allegedly discriminated against is an unacceptable discriminatory reality: all citizens are affected, regardless of ethnic origin and sexual orientation. unfortunately, it is the usual ideology that permeates the left benches of this house. so this discussion becomes a lost opportunity, and i am truly sorry.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear: europe has not been focusing on health care in recent years, unfortunately. in fact, from 2011 to 2018, the european commission asked member states 63 times to cut their health spending. the criticisms of this emergency and the crisis in the sector are therefore the result of problems which you have created and which we are now facing. the management of this pandemic, both in the first and in the second phase, has been confusing, poorly coordinated and consistently late in implementing decisions. you have been running around, badly, behind the world health organization. and then we remember the decision of the european council last july, the decision to reduce funding for the health programme. they have been reduced, or at least that was the proposal in may, from eur 9.4 billion to eur 1.67 billion. all this in the midst of a global pandemic. a paradox, of course, that many people should honestly be ashamed of. the european union must understand that it cannot allocate budgets that are ridiculous in relation to the health challenges we are forced to face. we also need to change the general philosophy: i see a europe too focused on pursuing the beautiful dreams of every greta on duty, of every greta who wakes up in the morning. but do you realize that the priority right now is to save lives and maintain the continental health system? now they're looking for a change of line and an attempt to repair the damage done. well, we welcome it, but there's still a lot to do. the commission proposal needs to be clarified. and then let me make a note: european money is not yet wasted on absurd funding like that of the wuhan institute of virology. never again, please! of course, we must ensure the best possible programme for the health of the european citizens. in times of health crisis, citizens rightly expect the european union to play a more active, more serious role, to be an institution that is truly able to coordinate with other states. they want a europe that pushes for investment in more infrastructure, that encourages the employment of doctors and nurses, that invests in research. a lot needs to change to ensure full capacity to proactively respond to needs. of course, in this emergency, the citizens expect more from europe. we believe that this plan should increase the security of production, supply and even distribution of medicines and medical devices, something that unfortunately we have not seen so far, coming to the drama of countries that have been refused respirators and not only at the beginning of the pandemic. for example, italy, my country, has been denied aid for weeks, nothing but european solidarity! president von der leyen then apologized, but we do not expect an apology, we expect facts, we expect a different europe. at the same time, we must support european production, because now more than ever we must reduce our dependence on third countries for raw materials, medicines, medical devices and so on. we have been dependent on the asian countries for too long, it is not possible to continue in this way. europe must stop concentrating on expensive projects for a greener and smelling world. this is not the time. the health of the citizens must now be given priority and cannot be regarded as a nuisance that should not be taken seriously. in short, europe is beginning to be europe, it is really beginning to play a role in the different states. we haven't seen her in months, and when we have, we've seen her act badly and be late. we do not need excuses, we need concrete and real measures for the states. we are in a pandemic, europe is starting to make europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is being ravaged by the pandemic these days. to date, there are over 13 million positive swabs, although we know little about how many are unique, how many are asymptomatic, how many are severe, how long they stay in intensive care and how many are rotated, and, most importantly, how many have developed immunity. unfortunately, families and citizens have been asked to make enormous emotional, psychological and economic sacrifices, often in ways that are questionable in the light of the results. we must regret that this european union has not been able to cope with the situation. the warning signs were there from the beginning: i myself spoke in this house in january to denounce the european union's underestimation of border controls, with ineffective and belated action. almost two months late! the ecdc also only got going when the pandemic was already underway, and the 2005 european pandemic plan was never updated or implemented, and national pandemic plans were only partially denied, classified and published. and the commission's answers to our questions were vague. now we can't fail on vaccines again. we call for maximum transparency in all the steps leading to an effective vaccine: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council. we ask how the 660 million euro the commission has allocated to the development of vaccines, new treatments, diagnostic tests and medical systems has been spent. we ask for clarity on the advance purchase agreements that president von der leyen is concluding the latest with pfizer for 300 million doses. we call for transparency in the distribution, with the guarantee that there will be no a-class and b-class citizens, especially since there is no mapping of the immune population. the news of more vaccines coming soon is comforting. in the hope that they will be safe and effective, politics must now play its part. we must avoid mistakes and guarantee freedom and security for all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a more sustainable european single market, with less consumption of resources, longer product life and greater consumer protection, is certainly a worthy and acceptable objective, but it must also take account of reality. a harsh reality, where the priority is to survive the economic and social catastrophe caused by the pandemic, in an increasingly competitive and globalized world. we therefore believe in a rational rather than an ideological transition, one which is progressive and achievable, facilitated by incentives rather than penalized by new burdens, but above all one which is compatible with the situation we are facing. the plastic tax, for example, risks blowing up entire sectors already on the verge of collapse: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. there is a striking contradiction between the noble words and the policies put in place by europe: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems. europe says it supports local production and consumers' right to transparent information, but then introduces misleading labels like nutri-score, instead of legislating on traceability, thus penalizing entire productions without really protecting the health of citizens. it also encourages short supply chains in public procurement, but does not provide regulatory certainty to entrepreneurs on the environmental requirements needed to participate in tenders. brussels is calling for more trade in the single market but then fails to invest in strategic infrastructure, such as airports, and cuts funding to those who want to expand and strengthen cargo activities. finally, europe is promoting low-impact mobility, but it should be aware that electric cars, and in general all the more environmentally friendly and sustainable products, are not within the reach of the majority of people, especially now that the fight for the indispensable is on. there are many fine abstract words about sustainability in this room, but outside there are nations in distress, where companies, workers and families are worried about the immediate future, even before the 2050 climate goals. if we really want to achieve a sustainable single market which respects the rights of citizens, we must promote it with coherent and workable initiatives, confronting not dogmas and utopias but the dramatic reality we are living today.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the rapporteur for her very strong words and very powerful presentation this evening, and indeed for her work on this report. let me be very clear that media freedom and pluralism are enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. and i agree that democracy cannot work without a free and independent media. it’s more important than ever that journalists are able to do their job so that citizens have access to accurate information. so i really do appreciate this work and perhaps, as a former journalist, i appreciate the depth of your comments this evening. the commission as you know is currently finalising a series of initiatives that will address many of the issues in this report. the safety of journalists is a top priority that we do intend to address. we have already announced an initiative against abusive litigation targeting journalists and rights defenders in our 2021 work programme, and this will be part of the european democracy action plan which the commission will present on 2 december. as part of the first annual rule of law report, we analysed the framework for the protection of journalists in all member states, alongside the independence of audio-visual regulatory authorities, transparency of media ownership, the political independence of media, and state advertising in the media sector. the conclusion is that no member state is immune from the risks to media freedom and pluralism. this is also clear from the media pluralism monitor co-funded by the eu, with the support of the european parliament. we welcome the report’s emphasis on the importance of media pluralism, media freedom and media literacy to fight disinformation. the code of practice on disinformation for online platforms and the advertising sector is a good example of structured cooperation to ensure greater transparency and accountability. it’s also a useful framework to monitor and improve platforms’ policies on disinformation. the european democracy action plan will outline the next steps to upgrade this code. this report also highlights the impact of the covid-19 crisis on the media, especially local media, with estimated reduction in revenues of as much as 80%. to help the sector recover and support its digital transformation the commission will also present a media and audio-visual action plan on 2 december. we will also propose the digital service act by the end of the year. this aims to harmonise a clear set of due-diligence obligations for online platforms, including notice and action procedures and voluntary proactive measures for illegal content such as illegal hate speech, redress mechanisms, accountability measures and obligations to cooperate with public authorities. one of the main objectives of this instrument will be to improve the safety of users online across the european union, while improving the protection of their fundamental rights. the digital service act will be adopted along with the digital markets act, which aims to better address market deficiencies resulting from the position of large online platforms. the commission will continue working with the european parliament to strengthen media freedom and pluralism, as well as to fight hate speech and disinformation, while protecting fundamental rights. this is essential for our democracy and the rule of law. i thank you for this report.
the case is closed. the amendments will be voted on tomorrow, 24 november 2020, and the final vote will be delivered on wednesday, 25 november 2020. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has made us aware of the importance of accessing reliable and fact-based information. in a situation where misinformation and media manipulation can cost lives, access to verified information provided by independent media is crucial. the free media and pluralism are also one of the pillars of a democratic system, playing an important role in social surveillance and raising citizens' awareness. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of journalists and the protection of the eu's financial interests. notable cases include the murder of daphne caruana galizia in malta and of jan kuciak and his fiancée martina kušnírová in slovakia for their investigative journalism. therefore, both the eu and the individual member states must act in favour of media freedom and independence. attempts to silence critical and independent media or to use public media for political gain, for example by excluding the opposition from public debate, are unacceptable. common standards and indicators on media independence at union level, as well as the collection of information and statistics on media freedom and pluralism, can help us to ensure that europeans have access to high-quality information free from manipulation or propaganda. it is also important that member states respond to any manifestations of attacks on journalists and make efforts to ensure impartial and effective investigations into such cases.
the next item is the report (a9-0197/2020) by mr carlo calenda, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the new industrial strategy for europe (ini) 2020/2076.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we started writing this report in the days when we were overwhelmed by the first pandemic of the modern era. an event that causes, in addition to the dramatic health consequences, a symmetrical shock on supply and demand that has no precedent since the second world war. the effort made during these months has always had as its objective a shared outcome, aimed at strengthening the role of parliament, also pending the review of the industrial policy strategy announced by the commission. i would like to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, for this work. the 700 amendments received have become 17 compromise amendments, which are balanced and widely shared. our report divides the industrial strategy into two distinct phases: the first phase is aimed at the recovery of the production system after the emergency and the second phase aims at building a socially, economically and environmentally resilient industrial system. the need to promote and accelerate the dual digital and environmental transition is at the heart of this. the goal of climate neutrality in 2050 remains our compass. the report also takes account of the external dimension of industrial policy. in a less open and tougher world, the european union, while remaining committed to free and balanced trade, both bilaterally and multilaterally, must make more assertive use of trade defence instruments, activate measures to promote reciprocity in public procurement and monitor acquisitions of strategic companies by state-owned enterprises and companies linked to foreign governments. the report is structured around a number of key points. i will mention a few. first point: a strong focus on social aspects, in particular training, to avoid job losses and to safeguard territorial cohesion in the spirit of the 'no one left behind' principle. we know from experience over the last 30 years that transformation, if not managed properly, leads to deep divisions between winners and losers. among the latter, young people and women are reported as the most affected categories. second point: a balanced review of competition and state aid rules to protect our strategic autonomy and global competitiveness and to enable support for investment in the environment and digitalisation, preserving and completing the single market. third point: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. fourth point: the commission has also proposed a new approach to the eu's external relations, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of amsterdam. fifthly, proposals to provide companies with the appropriate tools to contribute effectively to the reduction of co2 emissions in line with the climate law. in this connection we must avoid at all costs that environmental transformation not adequately financed and protected from environmental dumping, including through the imposition of a carbon border tax, causes relocations to countries with less stringent emission standards, with a consequent increase in pollution and loss of jobs here. the commission's analysis of ecosystems will be crucial in selecting interventions and priorities. in the report we also called for a system of key performance indicators and impact analyses, which would help to verify ex ante and ex post the effectiveness of the measures taken and the instruments put in place. the european union urgently needs an adequate industrial strategy, which is operational, well funded and properly coordinated. this report is an important opportunity for parliament to speak with one strong and united voice. we have worked with great care and passion on the text, with this very objective in mind!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this report, one might say, has unfortunately become a leftist manifesto. of course we support the values on which the european union is founded, but it is hard not to see that left-wing circles - political circles, also here in the european parliament - want to dominate their beliefs and worldview over others, bending european law and procedures to achieve their ideological goals. this is evidenced by the numerous references in the report to, for example, reproductive rights, sex education and judicial systems. the treaties, however, clearly define the scope of the union's activities and the limits of its competences. fundamental rights are not reserved for some, they apply to all and cannot be arbitrarily extended. they cannot be abused to impose a leftist narrative that promotes a specific interpretation of fundamental rights, recognizing and promoting even alleged rights that do not exist, such as the right to abortion. in a few years, we may even have the right to euthanasia or surrogacy. we need a dialogue on equal and fair terms, respecting the letter and spirit of the treaties. i am convinced that this is in the interests of all the nations that make up the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is founded on common values and fundamental rights which are the legal and political basis for peaceful and inclusive societies. no member state is immune from threats, but the instruments to prevent, correct and punish attacks on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights have unfortunately often proved inadequate. the need for an impartial monitoring and evaluation mechanism, country by country, to combat violations of the values on which the european project is based is therefore still relevant. the full enjoyment of social, political and economic rights remains a challenge for the most vulnerable groups and cannot be ignored in the fight against unemployment, gender inequalities, discrimination, poverty, intolerance, xenophobia, unequal access to goods and services, corruption, organised crime and terrorism. it is imperative that the european union place human dignity and fundamental rights at the heart of its action, so that the full development of the person contributes to strengthening democracy, freedom and the cohesion of our society.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our common values and fundamental rights are set out in article 2 of the eu treaty: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities. article 3 identifies the promotion of these values as an objective of the eu. fact: in germany alone, one woman is killed by her partner or ex-partner every three days. many women are denied full access to reproductive health services. lgbti people are increasingly experiencing discrimination and violence. there are reports of brutal pushbacks at our external borders. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. the rule of law principles, such as the separation of powers, judicial independence and equality before the law, are being trampled underfoot in some member states. governments abuse public institutions and media for their own power. the reaction and the consequence in the council and the commission? the new annual rule of law report of the commission covers respect for fundamental rights only indirectly. the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights, even six years after the ecj ruling? it didn't work! and article 7 procedure was sent to the council. as the european parliament, we will continue to remind the commission and the council of their role. they must promote fundamental rights and take decisive action against their violation. our values and fundamental rights must not continue to decay into empty shells. the european union must be a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, and a democratic society.
mr president, more than two thirds of european citizens are confronted with false information at least once a week. in times of crisis like the one we are living in, rumors, false information and truncated or unverified information proliferate at a rapid rate. this is particularly true online. they are based on citizens' doubts and fears, and they contribute to our citizens' distrust of institutions and are a real poison for our democracies. madam commissioner, this is one of the conclusions we draw in this annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union in 2018 and 2019. freedom to inform and to be informed is enshrined in article 11 of the european charter of fundamental rights, which this year celebrates its 20th anniversary. today, there is an urgent need to act, as the protection of journalists, especially investigative journalists, is not sufficiently ensured in all member states. let us give ourselves the means, including legislative means, to fight effectively against the creators and disseminators of false information. we must financially support free and independent media throughout europe, including local news organisations close to our citizens. the challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is to assert the right of every citizen to have access to quality information to form his own opinions.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the fundamental rights of the european union is a programme of a left-wing party, or rather, a far-left party. there are some passages that are frankly really biased and embarrassing. i will just mention a few of the many that i have been able to read. you speak of a european union which has stood by and watched the spread of racism, islamophobia, hostility and intolerance towards muslims, but you say nothing, and i say nothing, about terrorism, the victims of attacks, those who hate us europeans, our way of life, our culture and our values. in fact, you go so far as to say that counter-terrorism policies must not lead to discrimination. it's absurd and shameful! on the immigration side, you take on those who defend borders, security and national sovereignty, such as matteo salvini. you speak of the criminalization of solidarity, of unlawful expulsions, of racist policies and of human rights violations, but not a word of condemnation against human traffickers, against those who promote illegal immigration, against those ngos which systematically violate national laws, and not even against those who, through the business of welcoming, profit from migrants in order to enrich themselves. the report even includes a passage against police officers and their abuses. you say that the use of force must be limited to avoid disproportionate reactions, but you make no mention of the violence that men and women in uniform suffer every day. this is intolerable! in short, this european union is now nothing but a pathetic concentration of propaganda. then, you know, don't be surprised if the public has less and less confidence in you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a manifesto of the so-called 'woke' ideology, which is so fashionable: a criticism of the citizens of the european union for their backward culture, for their racism, for their homophobia against lgbt people, for their islamophobia, for their lack of solidarity towards migrants. i had hoped that this report would also include a word about the right to pray in a church, or to draw a cartoon, or to teach in a school without risking being beheaded. but, as regards legal immigration, is not the right to security of european citizens, often guaranteed by those police officers who are unjustly criminalised in the report, also a fundamental right? not to mention the freedom of political initiative or thought, often suppressed on the charge of violating the rule of law. professor kleinermann is right when he says: "i fled communist romania and now i find myself fighting in the west against the same ideology". there, we're with him.
mr president, the report on respect for fundamental rights in the union is published every year. each time, its contents are quite loaded and nothing that should be of concern to us, perhaps even worrying us. in any case, it never seems to lose its usefulness as many of the fundamental rights are violated, year after year, in some of the member states of the union. the report recalls that in the last two years, reforms have been taken which are contrary to the rule of law and democracy. it is impossible to list here all the violations committed in this area in europe, but let us consider them: the violation of the independence of the judiciary and freedom of expression, the restriction of the activities of journalists, the violation of the security of lgbti people and migrants, not to mention women's rights and access to abortion, which are increasingly under threat. the report therefore aims to send a clear message to the member states, but also to the commission. the eu is not the usual suspects when it comes to being tough on fundamental rights. at this very moment, for example in france, the question of the interior minister's plans for respecting freedom of the press is clearly raised. the union is not a cartel, but it is also demanding for everyone. it must be exemplary and guarantee respect for the fundamental rights of all citizens without distinction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the threshold of 2021 and it is very sad that, even here in europe, fundamental rights are for many but not for all. we talk about freedom and justice and equality all the time, but we know that we can't guarantee them here either. even today, in europe, thousands of women and children are victims of human trafficking, sold as slaves, killed or forced into prostitution. why have not all the member states of the european union ratified the istanbul convention? perhaps because not all member states have the same desire to fight for fundamental rights and to protect women and children? we must remember that half the victims of human trafficking come from the countries of the european union. in some member states prostitution is legal and it is here that traffickers transfer a large proportion of their victims for minor checks. as long as prostitution is allowed to be considered a job, and not an exploitation or a form of violence, we would do well to stop speaking with hypocrisy and to admit that even in europe economic interests take precedence over the rights of women and children.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, allow me, once again, to thank you for the report and to recall that all actors have a role to play to renew our commitment to fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy, be it at national, european or international level, and that we are fully committed to play ours. the charter of fundamental rights is a symbol of our shared european identity. it reminds us that we all belong to a community of values, a community where fundamental rights are respected, a community where democracy and the rule of law prevail. these rights and values cannot be taken for granted. new fundamental rights challenges have emerged, for instance, also from the covid-19 crisis, as many of you mentioned in your speeches. as i noted, in december i will present a new charter strategy to foster awareness and effective use of the charter in the eu, and i count on your support, the support of the european parliament, to promote it and to play its unique role in the charter enforcement chain.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow, wednesday 25 november 2020. the final vote will take place on thursday 26 november 2020. before we move on to the next debate, i give the floor to mr boeselager, who has asked to speak on the rules of procedure under rule 195.
i would like to thank mr boeselager. the president could not accept the last sentence of your amendment because it seeks to defend the immunity of mr junqueras, who is not currently a member of the european parliament. that is why the president is sticking to this decision.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr pascal durand, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the follow-up to the european parliament elections (2020/2088 (ini)) (a9-0211/2020). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words at any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, there are elections, there is politics, as with all shows: you can choose the angle of the projector. we can decide to clarify certain facts, we can decide to leave others in the shadows and finally only talk about what suits us or, on the contrary, what we want to criticize. we have tried with my colleagues on the committee on constitutional affairs, and i would like to pay tribute to them, to leave nothing out and to have a balanced position between what we were happy about in these elections and what we were less satisfied about. i'd like to start by taking a look in the rearview mirror. where did we come from? it is 2019 and we are talking about the direct, universal election of the european parliament. we are 40 years after the creation of this parliament. we are practically at the birth of this parliamentary democracy in europe. let us all bear in mind that we are moving forward, that our democracy is progressing, and that originally this parliament was not elected by universal suffrage and was composed of representatives of the national parliaments. we have therefore reached a very important milestone and this election has reinforced this progress. the first element i would like to stress is participation. everyone was delighted with the increase in participation. we have more than 50% of the votes cast in these european elections and when i hear everywhere that europe does not directly represent, etc., i say that more than 200 million, i say 200 million european citizens, voted in the european elections. we all had, a few days or weeks ago, dark circles under our eyes, watching american channels to try to find out the outcome of the elections in the united states. we have 30 million more voters electing our parliament. let us not be modest: let us accept the fact that european democracy is strong, that it is progressing and that, yes, citizens are interested in its future, that is very important. it is also very important to note that the turnout has increased, because young people have taken this election into their own hands. and if young people have taken ownership of this election - this is the point i want to emphasise and i am obviously addressing the opponents of the european union - it is because they consider the european level to be the right lever to respond to the difficulties and crises, but also to tackle the challenges ahead. on climate issues, on security issues, on democracy and human rights issues, on social issues, the youth of europe have understood that we will only be able to solve these issues through our continental power and not simply in the national and identity folds. and that's really important. however, participation is not equal everywhere and it is indeed worth noting that in some states participation is still very low. we must improve this situation, we must continue to communicate, we must ensure that democracy progresses in a uniform way throughout the european union. but, as i said, we have good news. we have some not so good ones. as i said, some countries do not mobilise around the european elections, but we also have a whole section of the european population who cannot participate in these elections. i am talking about the weakest people, the disabled. in some countries, voting is extremely complicated. i am talking about certain communities who are not able to freely access the right to vote in certain european countries, this is unacceptable, this must change. we also have to note the lack of diversity in our parliament. of course we must make progress on this issue, there is a whole section of the european population that is not represented in our institutions, this must change. this also needs to change for diversity and gender equality. yes, there has been progress, we have gone from 37 to 41% of women in this parliament. yes, it is an improvement, but 41% is still far from the 51% or 52% we should be reaching. so that's a goal, we have to do it. we must ensure that this parliament has real, effective parity between women and men. it is also good to analyse a situation, but i would like to conclude by saying that we must also make proposals. i have spoken of the good news, but there is a bad one: the principle of the candidate at the head of the list has not, as it is, been understood by the voters. only 8% of european voters said that the question of the candidate at the top of the list was at the heart of their vote. we must therefore move forward and reflect on the capacity that parliamentary democracy can bring to bear so that european citizens actually vote for a european candidate. and here we must have the courage to debate all the issues such as the transnational lists, the single constituency, is that not so, mrs jourová, it is in your portfolio, these are issues we must debate without fear, without fear, simply because they are at the heart of european democracy. there are many other subjects, mr president, but i will stop here. we have made progress, we still have progress to make.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes this report and thanks the rapporteur, mr durand, for his efforts to present a detailed stock-taking of the last elections, as well as to outline guidance of this parliament on several key issues of high institutional and constitutional importance. we share the aspiration expressed in the report to strengthen the european dimension of the european elections and to promote broad and inclusive participation in european democracy. in june 2020, the commission published its own report on the 2019 elections. the report looked at the conduct of the last european elections and analysed measures taken to enhance transparency, to protect free and fair elections, and to promote the democratic participation of all eu citizens, to strengthen the european dimension of the elections, and to ensure resilient electoral processes. it was based on substantial input received from member states authorities, in particular from the european cooperation network on elections and the expert group on electoral matters. our findings have shown that young and first-time voters drove turnout figures to a record high, the first increase since the 1970s and the highest in 25 years. it was also an election where the institutions and member states cooperated closely and effectively to communicate with citizens. a dynamic european debate emerged on a number of topics showing progress in developing a european political dimension. in the report, the commission announced that it would continue to intensify its communication activities, to support inclusion policies and to engage with the member states in the framework of the european cooperation network on elections, on best practices in this area, including on data and reporting. the network in fact already touched on these subjects at its most recent meetings in july and september, and also discussed practices and experience in adapting elections and democracy to the post-covid environment, which was warmly welcomed by member states and which will continue. we also indicated some opportunities for european political parties to support the effort to increase turnout, in particular through communications efforts, to increase inclusive participation, and through awareness-raising about the elections, and how the eu works. in the next week, the commission will adopt the european democracy action plan. in this plan, we aim to protect our european democracies against today’s challenges and make them more resilient in order to ensure that citizens are able to participate in the democratic systems through informed decision-making free from unlawful interference and manipulation. the action plan will focus on safeguarding the integrity of our elections, on countering disinformation and on supporting free and independent media, and also build on the lessons learned from the ongoing covid-19 crisis. it will also cover active citizenship and strengthening of civil society. the international dimension of these initiatives is a thread running through the whole plan. it will announce legislative proposals to ensure greater transparency of paid political advertising, alongside non-legislative measures and further initiatives to tackle disinformation and to protect the media. i am glad that the durand report focuses also on institutional matters such as the lead candidate. with the upcoming european parliament reports and the hopefully soon to be launched conference on the future of europe, we will be able to discuss together with citizens and member states the shape of the next elections. let me repeat that i remain ready to act as an honest broker in this field where the commission’s initiative, as you know, is limited. from our side, we are ready to join the debate and to make available legal and institutional expertise, research on electoral processes and insight into interinstitutional relations if this parliament and the council deem it useful. i would also like to mention two of the files where the commission has the right of initiative. the regulation on the statute and funding of the european political parties and foundations. as announced in the work programme for the next year, we will propose a revision aiming for clearer rules, for instance on the financing. we will also propose legislation to ensure greater transparency of paid political advertising, alongside non-legislative measures, ensuring transparency and accountability, in particular online, is essential. all this with a view to adoption well in time ahead of the 2024 elections. to summarise: on behalf of the commission i can assure you that we will do our best to ensure that citizens’ confidence in our democratic process and decision-making only increases in the years to come.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, dear pascal, thank you for your work and for the effort you have made to make us all feel comfortable in this report. the last european elections left important lessons to be learned. for the first time we've seen a significant increase in participation. contrary to what the eurosceptics say, europe matters to the citizens. however, although the moderate and pro-european parties have clearly won the elections, many citizens preferred populist and nationalist options, something we respect but should be concerned about. the system of the leading candidate has also failed because the council refused to accept as president of the commission the person who won the elections and because we failed to defend him. the general assessment of the elections is positive, european democracy is working, but there are many things that can be done better. we all agree that sooner rather than later the european union will have to face its own democratic revolution and, if it does not do so out of conviction, it will have to do so out of necessity. the world we live in today bears little resemblance to the world we knew just a decade ago, when we signed the treaty of lisbon. leaving aside the pandemic, in the year 2000, for example, few could have imagined that in the 21st century nationalist movements, populist movements, economic protectionism and political authoritarianism would resurface. just like a hundred years ago. few could have imagined that within the european union we would have to stand up again in defence of press freedom, the rule of law, the rights of women or those who are persecuted for their sexual orientation or religion. few could have imagined that something as far-fetched as brexit could ever happen. we had taken refuge in economics, we had left behind principles and values, thinking that others would defend them for us. we were wrong. when authoritarianism is growing in the world, our silence does not make us victims, but accomplices. europe is not a state and does not aspire to be one. if the policy and pressure of national governments do not prevent this, we shall next year hold a conference on the future of europe at which all the points in this report will be on the table, for example, the aspiration of europe to become a federation with a representative government and a bicameral parliament of citizens and states. there, europeans have a historic opportunity to decide collectively what we want to be and what role we want to play in the future: whether we are content to be just a market or whether we aspire to be something more valuable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, elections are always the most delicate and important moment in the life of a democracy. since 1979, the turnout in the european elections has been steadily declining. but last year, the trend was reversed. the highest turnout in 20 years. the announced breakthrough of the eurosceptic forces did not take place. there has been a new interest in the european union. european citizens still believed in the project of integration and went to the polls convinced that their vote could be a force for change. it is now up to us to proceed on the path that has been set before us. we cannot disappoint those who still look to a united europe, a europe which believes in solidarity, in the rule of law, in the ability to face and overcome the great global challenges. our task is also to rekindle hope where it has been extinguished. progress has been made in this year and a half. the number of meps has increased since the last parliamentary term. i appreciate and we appreciate the female leadership of the commission, but the road to real equality is still too long. only 5% of meps belong to a minority, yet they constitute 10% of the european population. the vote has often been denied to prisoners and the homeless. some 800 000 disabled people were unable to vote because of problems with access to seats. so, the 2019 election report looks at the past and the present, but it looks mostly to the future. it is the aim and the task of this parliament to design the future. the citizens have asked us to rediscover the path traced by the founding fathers and mothers of the union. we have to do more and more. he remembered jean monnet: "nothing is possible without men, but nothing lasts without institutions".
madam president, thank you and good to see you in your new position. az ábrahám- egyezmény szeptember15-i aláírása teljesen új fejezetet nyithat izrael és a közel-keleti arab országok közötti viszony dinamikájában. esélyt teremt arra, hogy a béke végre átvegye az ellenségeskedés helyét a régióban. az egyezmény következtében – számos banki és befektetési megegyezés mellett – létrejöhetett az első vízummentességi megállapodás izrael és egy arab ország között, amely valóban történelmi esemény. a megállapodást az ensz és az európai külügyi szolgálat is rendkívül pozitív áttörésnek értékelte, hiszen két arab ország is normalizálta kapcsolatát izraellel. nagyon hosszú ideje nem volt ilyenre példa. sajnálatos, hogy itt, a parlamentben csak ennyi idő elteltével vettük napirendre ennek a témának a megtárgyalását. az eu részéről ideje a térségben a pozitív együttműködésre fektetni a hangsúlyt az eddigi passzivitással szemben. az eu nem engedheti meg magának, hogy súlytalanabb szereplővé váljék a térségben, hiszen csakis a közel-kelet békéje és stabilitása akadályozhatja meg újabb migrációs hullámok elindulását európa irányába.
madam president, recently the eu and most of this parliament were alarmed about the plans of de jure annexation that, i quote: ‘could not go unchallenged’. but then netanyahu signed the emirates deal without a mention of palestine. since the deal, israel has advanced 6 200 new settlement units, accelerated demolition of palestinian homes as well as eu-funded schools and structures, and while the trump administration effectively recognised israel’s de facto annexation, no protest came from the emirates or others. but annexation must not be normalised. the eu is rule-based; we must respect international law. the eu and the eu governments are complicit in violations of human rights as long as we don’t act in order to stop israel’s apartheid policy. stop romanticising this agreement, enforce differentiation policy, review all eu agreements with israel, and push for palestinian elections as soon as possible.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i also welcome the abrahamic covenants of israel with some arab countries, because they consolidate israel's security. on the arab side, these agreements represent a change of course. in the past, it was said to israel: 'if you come to an agreement with the palestinians, we will come together.' the link between the two elements has been severed, but the palestinian reality has not disappeared. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore in favour of a solution to the problem of the middle east. we europeans will continue to invest in the two-state solution. it will also be important to encourage the palestinians to make the necessary democratic change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the search for peace and stability in the middle east is a difficult and delicate operation, in which we have unfortunately learned not to take anything for granted. the definition of the abraham accords is certainly a significant step in which historical misgivings are overcome and an obvious convergence of economic and political objectives is established between israel, the united arab emirates and bahrain. i think that the building of bridges and alliances should always be welcomed positively and that is also the case here. i think two points should be made: the first is that these agreements must not in any way make us lose sight of the palestinian question, the enormous plight of the palestinian refugees today and the need for the two peoples, two states solution and full recognition of a state in palestine to be taken into account. the second consideration is that agreements and peace processes are positive if they do not turn into alliances against each other and the european union cannot simply look on as events unfold in the middle east. we need a new and renewed leadership to help take difficult and never-before-seen steps in the right direction.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is under attack and the european union is turning a blind eye, too often. commissioner, you came here to talk about freedom of expression and you didn't even mention charlie hebdo. he didn't mention them despite repeated attacks on their headquarters, forced to have a newsroom that works in secret out of fear. commissioner, you came here and you didn't even mention samuel pati, the professor who was beheaded in france because he was not free to explain to his class what freedom of expression was, what we are talking about today. but these are not the only cases. in italy too, we have journalists who are threatened for their views, such as magdi allam, a journalist who has converted to christianity and is responsible for investigating the spread of islamist hatred. you see, terrorism is about limiting our freedom, it's an assault on our culture, our values and our traditions. they want to cancel us, scare us, make us back off. unfortunately, they also succeed, and it's thanks to your kindness, because, you know, for fear of offending islam, you talk more about islamophobia than about islamic extremism. we can no longer pretend to be nothing, we can no longer trample on our identity out of fear, we can no longer be ashamed of our history. ideas cannot be stifled with blood.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about impunity for crimes against journalists, we think of the perpetrators of murders, beatings and threats, but there are methods of silencing journalists on a daily basis in the face of general indifference. they're called reckless lawsuits, which are baseless defamation suits with exorbitant claims for damages. even if the journalist is acquitted, he still has to pay for his lawyer, who has to face the legal firms of multinational corporations or important politicians. the situation is made all the more serious by the fact that journalists are increasingly working as freelancers and have little or no legal protection. the most immediate result is that the journalist stops writing awkward investigative stories and in some cases gets paid less than ten euros gross. the conclusions of the crim special committee called on member states to decriminalise the offences of defamation and libel for those who report incidents of corruption, organised crime and money laundering. i think it is necessary to take this step and apply it to journalism, to encourage those investigations that are so useful to our democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union already thought of the risk of such moments 70 years ago and of the help that all countries could give to each other in the event of a serious social, economic and health crisis. that is why i find it absurd and unacceptable that the polish and hungarian governments can keep the whole of europe in check while we are witnessing such a tragedy, with 1 750 billion euros to be unlocked. i find it shameful that the right of veto is being used as an instrument to harm the whole of europe, to the 440 million citizens who are waiting for the recovery fund so that they can continue to live, work, dream, and be part of a community which must now show its full strength. as an italian, i ask mr giorgia meloni, president of the ecr, and all the honourable members of the ecr: but how can you fraternize with someone who today blocks money for italians and all europeans? distance yourselves now from those who are playing with the lives of our children for mere political interests. our citizens have a right to that money! take your responsibilities!
madam president, i will speak about brexit. in this process, there has always been a time deficit and since day one we have worked against the clock. this continues. today we are all with michel barnier and his team, hoping that by the end of the weekend there will be a ratifiable agreement. will it give us sufficient time to see the future partnership agreement entering into force on 1 january? i dare say, we don’t know. contingency planning should continue. a lot has been done, but of course a no-deal scenario has never been our option. so we can only hope that compromises will be reached, review clauses established, brackets gone in time for us to go into proper democratic scrutiny. the question is how far our house can go with pragmatists. we have to be clear on one issue where there is no space for pragmatists: the council decision of 25 february this year authorising the opening of these negotiations made it very explicit. it says that the negotiations of the envisaged partnership should be premised on the effective implementation of the withdrawal agreement and its three protocols. full and timely implementation of this agreement is fundamental for us here. we hope to hear again soon from vice-president maroš šefčovič on this. and we cannot forget either the famous clauses in the internal market bill and their effective disappearance. we know that in the union, political will makes miracles. but there are limits. many options can be discussed and likely will be discussed, including provisional implementation with a delayed ratification. we do not know yet either whether this will be a new exclusive competence agreement, but i sincerely hope we will not be pressed by such challenges. it is clear that the list of risks and uncertainty stays long. what must be respected, however, is this house’s right of proper democratic scrutiny. (applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder how many people in this house have read franz kafka's the trial. i ask this because i have the impression that we are witnessing a surreal debate, the verdict of which has already been delivered. it is a political blackmail, a history already written, since it was obvious to everyone that, by approving a controversial regulation by a qualified majority, the consequences would be the budget veto, which would extend the already not brilliant timetables from the recovery plan. as regards external relations, i read that you will be dealing with turkey, a country where human rights are trampled on and freedom of the press is non-existent. but this parliament, instead of making amends for the billions of euros, as we have already said, given to erdoğan, finds time to debate poland and hungary. well, maybe you can use it to have a good debate about the rule of law, but in ankara. finally, as regards security, let us not forget what happened in vienna and nice just a few weeks ago. in one of the two cases, the killer had landed on the italian coast illegally. let us not forget that last year someone here thought of applying article 7 to italy, whose minister of the interior, matteo salvini, had thought of putting a stop to the business of illegal immigration. good work, gentlemen, even though the council representatives are not here today. we need a change of pace because if we argue in brussels, we die in the rest of europe.
madam president! i would like to remind my colleagues that this union is, or at least should be, a union of free and equal nations built on treaties in the spirit of compromise, not dictate. the treaties tell us how we set the multiannual financial framework. there is no mention of the condition of the funds against an arbitrarily defined risk of a threat to the rule of law. the state would want to circumvent these treaties. when you talk about the rule of law, you want to violate the rule of law of the european union. poland and hungary have used their right. this parliament also blocked the agreement for many months, using its right. this is not a discussion of european values. it's not a question of european values, because we respect them. it's a debate about who has the right to interpret them. the state has the right to interpret them. we do not believe, for example, that human dignity is based on free abortion and free euthanasia. we do not think that democracy means that decisions about who is to govern in warsaw and budapest are to be made in brussels, not in this chamber.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we, the meps of fidesz and kdnp, agree with the position of the leading politicians of the european people's party, who clearly and firmly reject the political blackmail tool of the so-called rule of law condition. donald tusk, president of the epp, said, and i quote, 'conditioning eu budgetary resources on the rule of law is a risky move and is going in the wrong direction. europe would not want to confuse these two regulations. the resources allocated to different tasks in the budget should not be subject to purely political criteria. we agree with tusc. jean claude juncker, of the people's party, as president of the european commission, said of the proposal, and i quote, "i think we shouldn't do that. threats are not conducive to upholding the rule of law. i don't think it would be useful to divide the european union. it would be toxic to the continent. other juncker is right. and manfred weber, in his article about rule of law conditionality barely a year ago, explained that common values are not concrete but abstract categories. the protection of the rule of law must not be influenced by everyday political convictions and there is a risk that the rule of law process will be drawn into political conflicts, so no new political actionism is needed. we support the position of manfred weber. german chancellor angela merkel said of the situation in the absence of agreement between hungary and poland, and i quote: 'if the european parliament establishes a majority but there is no unanimity in the european council, between the heads of state or government, then this is not possible. on the one hand, there is the unanimity of the member states. angela merkel is right. we therefore stand firmly behind the popular party's position of rejecting the means of political blackmail.
madam president, it’s really time to close up the agreement on the budget, the recovery fund and own resources. it is not acceptable that countries like hungary and poland, which have democracy disregard, which have minorities in disregard, which have women and independent media in disregard, keep on blocking everything. we as mps have to relaunch the conference on the future of europe and to revise the unanimity rule and real paralysis in decision—making. we can’t be hostages of veto points and national selfishness. we can’t be hostages of despotic leaders and we can’t rely every time on rescue at the last by angela merkel, like kids with their mummy. chers amis, des millions de citoyens sont en train d’attendre des réponses solides, concrètes et visionnaires. il ne s’agit pas de nos petites carrières, il s’agit de donner des certitudes et il s’agit de l’avenir de nos jeunes, de la lutte pour la démocratie, le climat et les droits.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is the world day against violence against women and i want to be clear: for some politicians, the protection of women begins and ends with gendered language and pink quotas - even if we are pandas to protect - without taking the slightest consideration for merit and commitment. that is not how violence and abuse are fought. the words are no longer enough to counter the subjugation of women, the subjugation that occurs through the infibulation and the compulsory islamic veil, all of which are too often silenced by the same political party. words are no longer enough to denounce the ridiculous penalties for rape in still too many countries. we need more tools for reporting, we need more certainty of punishment. in short, i would say, less feminist propaganda, more facts.
the next item is the declarations by the council and the commission on the new strategy on gender equality for lgbt people (2020/2877 ((rsp)). members are informed that no requested speeches or blue card questions will be allowed in the debate during this part-session. i would also point out that the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for having included this debate in the plenary agenda. since the founding of the european union, its member states have intensified their efforts to build societies based on shared values of human rights, equality and non—discrimination. in response to increasing societal pressure to ensure equal rights for all, we have made some progress over the years in fighting discrimination and in advancing equality and inclusion of lgbtiq people in europe. however, we still have a long way to go. today in the eu, too many lgbtiq people cannot be themselves without fear of discrimination, exclusion or violence. in 2019, 43% of lgbtiq people felt discriminated against. in 2012 this figure was lower, at 37%. all of this takes place in a climate of growing opposition against the protection of lgbtiq rights and the global pandemic, which has compounded existing inequalities for lgbtiq people. so the european commission is taking a strong stand for european diversity by launching the first ever lgbtiq equality strategy as part of the union of equalities strategic approach. the lgbtiq equality strategy will help to build a union where people, in all their diversity, are equal, where they can be themselves without risk of discrimination, exclusion or violence. to achieve this vision, the lgbtiq strategy presents the commission’s key actions and objectives for the coming five years around four pillars: tackling discrimination, ensuring safety, building inclusive societies and leading the call for lgbtiq equality around the world. several member states do not have laws to punish hate crime and hate speech against lgbtiq people. the commission’s new strategy announces the initiative to extend the list of eu crimes to cover hate crime and hate speech, including when targeted at lgbtiq people. due to legal differences across member states, rainbow families continue to struggle to have their family ties recognised when they cross the eu’s internal borders. despite the differences in national legislation, the commission will push for mutual recognition of family relations in the eu. as the president said in her state of the union speech, when you are a parent, you are a parent everywhere. and in order to improve legal certainty for eu citizens exercising their free movement rights, the commission will review the 2009 guidelines on free movement. the reviewed guidelines will reflect the diversity of families and hence contribute to facilitating the exercise of free movement rights for all families, including, of course, rainbow families. to realise the strategy’s objectives, the commission will harness all tools that are at its disposal. targeted actions will be combined with enhanced equality mainstreaming. lgbtiq people, like all other groups, are not a homogeneous group, which is why intersectionality will be used as a cross-cutting principle throughout the implementation of the strategy. furthermore, eu actions to advance lgbtiq equality need to be matched by sustained efforts at all levels, which is why we are calling for lgbtiq equality strategy in all the 27 eu member states. so i really look forward to your debate and your impressions on this strategy. (applause)
we now continue with the discussion on the council and commission statements on the new lgbtiq equality strategy (2020/2877(rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commission for this ambitious action plan concerning acceptance, recognition and protection. this long-awaited strategy is welcomed by lgbtiq civil society organisations, but also by millions of lgbti people living in europe, their parents, their children, and their families and friends. as the co-chair of the european parliament lgbtiq intergroup, i would like to thank you for the close cooperation we have had with you and also for your close cooperation with civil society. this strategy comes at a very opportune moment because in several member states of the european union, for instance poland and hungary, the governments have organised a real witch-hunt against lgbti people. this has even intensified during the pandemic because they want to divert attention from the failures in fighting the virus. we socialists and democrats appreciate that this strategy also tackles discrimination in employment by bringing forward legislation to enhance the role of equality bodies. we also welcome the fact that eu funds will strengthen lgbtiq civil society and research on gender in the member states. hate speech and hate crime is on the rise in the european union and therefore extending the list of hate crimes, including when lgbtiq people are targeted, is crucial. enhancing legal protection for rainbow families and facilitating the exercise of free movement for all families is paramount. we welcome the strong commitment of the commission that when one is a parent in one country, one is a parent in every country. however, it is regrettable that the commitment on mutual recognition of same-gender partnerships between member states is softer. by urging member states to adopt national lgbtiq action plans, the rights of trans, non-binary and intersex persons can no longer be ignored by member states. yes, they exist. they live with us. they live next to us. this strategy, together with the eu gender equality strategy and the intersectional approach, is the best answer to counter the anti-gender movement – a movement made up of ultra-hard-core conservative politicians and their followers by religious fundamentalists, who stand for an outdated patriarchal society where women’s rights and lgbti rights have no place. let me finish by recalling that being an lgbti person is not an ideology, it is not an identity, and it is not a choice – but being homo, bi, trans and inter-phobic is a choice. (applause)
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for putting on the table the lgbti rights strategy that this house has been asking for repeatedly for many years. finally we have something on the table, and i think you can count on almost all groups in this parliament to make it even better, because we will keep pushing. in recent years, we have been talking a lot about lgbti-free zones in poland and recently also in hungary. let’s be ambitious: let’s make europe the biggest lgbti welcome zone in the world, and there will not be any white spots. i think the vast majority of european citizens are not homophobic. what the polish government is doing is not representative for the majority of people. that’s why it’s very good that this is on the table, because it’s a political statement. it is representative for the set of values that we represent, the kind of society that we represent: a society where everybody has a place, every european is welcome and safe. what’s in it on hate speech and hate crimes, legislative proposals on rainbow families, is very good, but i would like to echo what has been said by maria walsh on conversion therapies, where we want a legal ban at european level. please, commissioner, also think about lgbti sex workers, people who are very marginalised, very vulnerable; think of transgender persons, who still in five countries undergo unnecessary sterilisation, and people who, thanks to covid measures, are back in an unsafe situation. finally, commissioner, i hope that this commission is not just going to put forward new proposals but will also enforce the existing instruments, because we already have a lot of tools that we could use a lot better. thank you: you have our support.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is truly disconcerting that in the midst of a pandemic the commission is once again, in an ideological way, choosing to discuss the new strategy on lgbt equality. when i came to brussels i was proud to be part of a large community that believed in the values of our founding fathers - de gasperi, monnet, adenauer - christian, liberal and social values, and i expected nothing less than to find myself in a "model zan" europe, named after the first signatory of the measure that already in italy the secularist left wants to use to censor and prosecute freedom of opinion, using the concept of homophobic discrimination, which is the same words i hear here. there's no need for this. the european union, according to all the reports of the european institute for gender equality, eurobarometer and the european union agency for fundamental rights, is one of the most lgbt friendly areas in the world and it is absurd that ad personam measures are taken to protect some categories instead of others, creating discrimination in reverse. we want a parliament that protects all citizens, without distinction of sex, opinion, weight, health, age, personal, political or religious convictions, even when they say that the family is only the natural one, that every child has the right to a mother and a father, that surrogacy is an inhuman practice and that our children should not be subjected to gender lessons in school. finally, when the president of the commission speaks of recognition of parentage for same-sex couples, i would remind her of article 81 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that family law is the exclusive competence of the member states and that even where there are transnational implications, it is the council and not the commission that should intervene.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, let’s be honest, europe’s lgbti community has been attacked on many occasions in recent years but, importantly, this strategy is now a comprehensive plan to create a union of equality for all of us. we have to make sure that lgbti citizens are no longer treated as second-class citizens in the european union. we enjoy exactly the same right to freedom of movement as everybody else, and when we move, we want to stay protected by eu law. the commission president rightly said a parent in one member state is a parent in all member states. i would like to add, like my colleague said, a marriage partner in one member state should be a marriage partner in all member states. but most of all, i would like to take this opportunity to remind all of us of the people we actually have to thank for the progress we have made in our community over the last few decades. it wasn’t rich people wearing fancy suits who started this movement for equality; it wasn’t in palaces or parliaments where the struggle for our rights began. it was in the streets, in dodgy bars, in forbidden places where the talk of our liberation was ignited. black trans activists, queers, marginalised groups – who were ridiculed, attacked and oppressed – had the courage to start this. today and every day their power made this movement. let us never forget that. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that all european citizens, regardless of their sex or sexual orientation, should be guaranteed the same rights and the same legal protection. now i wonder if this statement i just made is racist. on the contrary, i think it is racist to divide people into an endless series of sexual categories and subcategories, as this report does: l, g, b, t, q, i, a, p, k, if we want to update the list at 5:05 today. we're down to nine, not counting the old, outdated categories of male and female. it seems ridiculous and even a little suspicious to me to read page 20 of that report, which states that local organisations will receive support through economic funding from the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i greet commissioner kyriakides, who is with us today. we still have before our eyes and in our memory the tragic moments when, at the outbreak of the first wave of the covid-19 pandemic, the european union found itself in fact totally unprepared to deal with the health crisis. the commission's proposals are therefore welcome, commissioner, and they are intended to prevent this situation from ever happening again. without ever forgetting the fundamental principle of subsidiarity and the competences of the member states, greater coordination and a push to do more at european level are certainly welcome. the health and well-being of the citizens is not to be trifled with. it is necessary to ensure that pharmaceutical products are safe, of high quality and, above all, accessible to all. it is also necessary to promote competitiveness and innovation in the pharmaceutical sector, while also guaranteeing the highest standards - i repeat, the highest standards - of transparency. we must firmly reaffirm the principle of european autonomy in the field of pharmaceuticals, so as not to be dependent on states which have shown, even in the recent past, that they are totally unreliable. any reference to china is not accidental. the issue of access to medicines for all, irrespective of social and economic status, is of paramount importance. health should not be a question of rank, health is a fundamental right, a right for everyone. that is why we must also seek synergistic cooperation with pharmaceutical companies to develop medicines, even if they are not commercially attractive, precisely to guarantee this universally recognized right. i am referring, for example, to rare diseases and their treatments, particularly paediatric oncology, to children who are suffering from cancer or leukemia. in europe, i remember, about 35 000 cases are diagnosed each year among children and adolescents. of these, at least 6,000 are expected to die without treatment. too many of them. this is why new drugs are needed, more effective, safer, with fewer short- and long-term side effects. the parents of these children and these young people are asking us, and they are asking us all, regardless of political colour. it is not a political battle of the league, the people's party or the socialists. it is a battle for all of us and that is why, commissioner, i hope that there will be the greatest possible cooperation in parliament between all the political forces on a subject as important and sensitive as health.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there have already been expressions of legitimate concern about the detention and two-year prison sentence of khaled drareni, who was accused of threatening national integrity but who was actually guilty of simply doing his job, that is, of reporting without filters and in full freedom on what is happening in algeria, starting with the story of that large and peaceful movement of algerian citizens, many of whom are young, who have been calling for profound and democratic change since february 2019. we are witnessing a dangerous and disturbing escalation of authoritarianism. national security laws are increasingly being used to prosecute free people. this includes journalists like khaled drareni but also activists, trade unionists, political opponents and human rights defenders. while a people demands democratic transition and freedom, the government uses the covid emergency to restrict the spaces of freedom and democracy. europe has ignored the mediterranean for too long, let us also think of libya or egypt, where young patrick zaki is imprisoned. the context of the violation of rights cannot be overlooked any longer.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is an ambitious objective to draw up a sound strategy for the future of european smes at this historic stage, and the text that has emerged after months of close negotiations is a solid and concrete text, which has been designed and dedicated to those who are not afraid to get their hands dirty and who struggle every day to be entrepreneurs. i am thinking of artisans, small entrepreneurs, young people who have started start-ups, employees. it is a document which also wants to challenge the commonplace which all too often sees the entrepreneur only as a polluter or a tax evader. on 10 march, the european commission issued a communication entitled "a sme strategy for a sustainable and digital europe", and the next day - i must say with a little time-wasting - the world health organization declared covid a pandemic. the aim was therefore to align the union's priorities with the changed socioeconomic environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are talking about realities that are capable of employing over 100 million european citizens, generating over half of the union's gdp. and it was smes that were hit first, but they were able to respond first and they were able to turn themselves around and give a big hand to the european citizens. i would like to give a few examples: i am pleased to mention a company in my region, veneto, which has been able to reconvert and move from graphic arts to the manufacture of masks. i am very pleased to mention a german supplier to the automotive industry, which has been able to develop new air filters. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european small and mediumsized enterprises must of necessity regain their competitiveness, and for this we will need the help of the credit sector, also because we often speak of undercapitalised firms. the commission's proposal is to simplify the procedure, particularly as regards accessibility to european funds. as regards red tape, a survey shows that around 80% of european businesses consider the amount of administrative procedures they are subject to to be too burdensome, and this report attempts to provide an answer by setting challenging but binding targets for reducing the regulatory burden. green deal: the the environmental issue, we have to realize that sustainability has to be environmental, but also economic and social, because no one - and i said no one - has to lose their job. as regards innovation and digitalisation, we must be careful to avoid discrimination, including those sectors which objectively have difficulty innovating and are unable to do so, so that assistance and financial instruments must also be accessible to non-digital and non-innovative businesses, including those in the traditional craft sector, social services or the creative industries, which therefore need to update themselves digitally in order to remain competitive. our firms will also have to be protected from unfair pressure from the market giants and unfair competition. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to this text, a sincere thank you to my colleagues giesecke, cutajar, dlabajová, hahn, roos, pereira, corrao, a thank you to my staff and of course to the secretariat of the itre committee. despite the solid majority in committee supporting this text, there will also be some colleagues who will vote against it on wednesday on a party basis. i am sorry because beyond a text that has had an inclusive approach that has tried to synthesize the different sensitivities of the different groups, i believe that, at this historic stage, it is necessary to counter the pandemic by acting responsibly and therefore thinking about the solutions that the business world needs, therefore thinking about those who work in the day-to-day in small business realities. i would like to conclude with a wish, because i really want us to understand, especially at this stage, that those who are doing business in the time of covid are not asking for subsidies or for a little help, but on the contrary, they are asking only to be put in a position to work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just today the italian statistical institute announced that between summer and autumn almost 70% of companies experienced a decrease in turnover compared to the same period in 2019. there are many businesses in italy and europe that are suffering greatly from the consequences of the pandemic, which has in fact greatly aggravated an economic crisis that was already in place before covid. i would therefore like to thank my colleague, mr paolo borchia, for his work on the dossier on the relaunch of smes. this dossier, which deals with funding for digitisation and training, is certainly a very important starting point for supporting the realities that keep our country alive thanks to their proverbial entrepreneurial capacity. but europe must do more. it is not enough to talk about training and digitisation if we do not at the same time reduce the bureaucracy and taxes which are in fact preventing companies from overcoming the crisis and being competitive on the international and european internal market. so let us say once again no to green certifications and eco-taxes such as the plastic tax, which will certainly penalize our companies and at the same time open the doors of europe to chinese products with a higher environmental impact. we say no to nutri-score which is a declaration of war on our made in italy; we are saying yes to traceability, with the obligation to indicate on the label the origin of raw materials and food products, to protect our supply chains and, above all, the health of our consumers. let us say yes, finally, to the right limitations on the overpowering power of the digital giants that are killing small and mediumsized enterprises whose survival also depends on all these unresolved issues. entrepreneurs ask us to face them with pragmatism and without ideologies in order to continue to work, create employment, innovate, grow, giving new hope to italy and with italy to all of europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my satisfaction with the results we have achieved with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on this directive. water is a fundamental resource for human life and its safety is the prerequisite for its optimal use. politics, institutions and society need to engage in constructive dialogue, and the 2012 right2water initiative is a virtuous grassroots example to follow that the european union has embraced. if this parliament shows that it is open to the contribution of all, not only does it make a qualitative leap, but it finally understands that the opposition, with its ideas, also has a fundamental role in the democratic dialectic. let 's get to the point . the control list for endocrine disruptors, pharmaceuticals and microplastics, as provided for in the directive, is a major step forward and a valuable tool. today, unfortunately, in many parts of italy and europe, drinking water is subject to a huge number of pollutants, and one case in particular, the veneto region, where pfas contamination has been one of the most serious health and environmental emergencies ever faced for years. and yet, reaching a compromise on a significant list of pollutants represents regulatory intervention where, in fact, in some cases there were no rules. finally, it is important to note that member states will be free to intervene in their own territories with stricter restrictions if they consider it necessary. in conclusion, this directive is a first step towards safer consumption and a more conscious use of water.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are here today to discuss european water legislation. some 20 years after the water framework directive, we can say that this legislation is still relevant, but its implementation certainly needs to be improved and accelerated, further integrating the objectives of the directive into sectoral policies, in particular in the field of agriculture, transport and energy. water is an essential good for citizens and it is not acceptable that more than half of the water bodies in the european union are still in poor condition and that the targets have not yet been met, mainly due to inadequate funding and particularly slow implementation. first, further action is needed on chemicals and pollutants in order to improve the quality of water bodies and reduce risks to human and animal health and the environment. effective action on pollutants is needed and there is growing concern about pfas, microplastics and endocrine-disrupting chemicals, pharmaceuticals, among others, starting with source control measures. more attention should also be paid to the risk of release of nutrients, chemical fertilisers, pesticides, antibiotics and other pollutants used in agriculture into drainage basins and rivers. water pollution is also a serious threat to biodiversity, with a significant negative impact on flora and fauna. finally, i believe that greater transparency on water quality is absolutely necessary to guarantee this fundamental right to european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress today the european commitment to continue helping farmers in 2021 and 2022, giving them legal certainty. the transitional regulation will allow beneficiaries to make a gradual transition to the programmes outlined in the new cap and will ensure compliance with the green deal, i.e. transition to organic farming, phasing out pesticides and greater attention to the environment. the protection of farmers and the environment will be central, with member states having to spend 37% of the additional funds on greening measures or on the protection of animal welfare and 55% on measures aimed at digital and social transformation. the crisis measures introduced with covid will be able to continue to be used for a further six months after the entry into force of the transitional regulation significant aid. finally, we welcome the agreement which will allow for the inclusion of aid measures for the storage and sale of olive oil. the functioning of the common market in olive oils and the olives from which they are derived should be improved and stabilised. we hope that this will be a first step towards greater protection of quality european oils and a stop to wild and poorly regulated imports, which harm olive growers and consumers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after months of negotiations, this regulation finally gives european farmers the legal and financial certainty they need to continue their business and invest in green. farmers will thus be able to defend the european agricultural system and work from now on to achieve those ambitious environmental goals we set ourselves with the green new deal. i believe that there are three qualifying features of this agreement: the imposition of clear environmental and social objectives linked to the allocation of additional resources; the use of the crisis reserve fund, including during the transitional period, to cushion the economic and social effects of the pandemic and special attention to the marketing of olive oil under the common organisation of the markets, which will make it possible to protect olive oil production as much as possible. this agreement is a good start to the ongoing negotiations on the new cap, which will allow europe's largest productive sector to innovate and transform, while at the same time safeguarding the centrality of the active farmer and the continuing quest for quality, health and sustainability of production for the well-being of all european citizens.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased with the outcome of the react-eu negotiations, but this instrument will not work for italy, because to spend ten billion in one year you need spending capacity, so a capable government and the fact that the current italian government is totally incapable is shown by the facts: the 70 billion unspent still in the treasury, the highest number of covid deaths in europe despite the lockdown, the exponential increase in unemployment and the inability to bring home the 18 sicilian fishermen kidnapped in libya for three months, while the turkish government had general haftar release their fishermen after just one week. if the european union does not want to leave anyone behind, it cannot leave italian citizens in the hands of buffoons, but must ask minister di maio, president conte to resign and intervene directly to free the fishermen of mazara, it is sicily that asks you: bring them home!
madam president, commissioner, commissioner, we are finally commenting on a measure, a regulation which leaves behind a past of bureaucratic byzantines and absurd constraints for local authorities and citizens, introducing for example flexibility and 100% co-financing and direct involvement of the regions, which are only a small part of the positive aspects of react-eu. we are here today to give a positive assessment of a measure which finally looks to the future, a future made up of rules which are more sensible, simpler, more useful and, above all, closer to the needs of the european people, with the hope, of course, that they will also be maintained in all future measures of cohesion policy and the next generation eu. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. for the mountains, it is a small, timid step, but more must be done to enable the tenacious and resilient population of mountain areas to play a leading role in europe. finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me stress that despite the so-called 'health cordon' imposed on us at the beginning of this parliamentary term, my group has cooperated in a positive and correct way, precisely because this type of measure is in the interests of the citizens, the peoples, the territories and the nations that make up this europe. if we continue to work in this way, we are of course prepared to do our part, but if we start again talking about restrictions, blackmail and absurd impositions, you will always find a strenuous and proud resistance in us.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, mr high representative, for your opening statement. we are celebrating another historic milestone for the mediterranean, a milestone of light and shadow, mr borrell. as you think of barcelona, the seat of the union for the mediterranean, i think of the treaties of rome of 1957, considered the birth certificate of the european family, and i therefore think of that red thread that unites rome and barcelona as the capitals of europe and the mediterranean. we therefore want to plan together for a more sustainable and fair future, along the paths of respect for the environment, development, culture, modernity, and we must be able to do all this by working on strengthening economic governance and attracting important private investment, but there are also shadows, mr borrell. we call for joint action to be taken simultaneously against trafficking in human beings, organised crime, terrorism and irregular immigration, both from areas of origin and transit, because the continuation of these trends will always prevent the region from progressing and will force european citizens to pay too high a price. and even more important is the human dignity that we find at the beginning and end of every single individual's life. and yet many countries in this area are not so inclined to respect human dignity in the name of state reason. this is the most important call we can make today as we celebrate barcelona, looking forward to a future where we will be together protagonists of respect, freedom and human dignity.
mr president, mr borrell, the barcelona declaration is the result of a clear vision and commitment to the future of the whole euro-mediterranean region. twenty-five years later, as you said, expectations are far from being met. we are lagging behind on some crucial issues and, with a few exceptions, the regression is dramatic. the mediterranean has become a great landmark where the hopes of thousands of human beings are being lost, and not the benchmark of peace, stability and shared prosperity that we had conceived and promised. this failure is also our responsibility, perhaps because europe today does not have the moral authority it had 25 years ago, but also because of its paradoxes. barcelona, the capital of catalonia, which gives its name to the declaration, has been the scene for the last three years of the most ferocious repression ever inflicted by a european union state on millions of citizens who simply wanted to vote. and when the european union is silent about these abuses, its voice cannot have the strength it should have in the face of the threat to freedom in the region.
mr president, mr borrell, the barcelona process was an ambitious initiative, the objectives of which have unfortunately not yet been achieved. but a lot has changed since 1995. the countries concerned are more numerous and more heterogeneous, and the situation in the mediterranean is more complex because of various factors: the economic crisis, the rise of islamist terrorism, the birth of the union for the mediterranean below expectations, the so-called arab spring, the serious situation in syria and libya, the refugee crisis and irregular migration, and finally the defiant nationalism of turkey. and while in post-brexit europe, the anachronistic populisms and radical nationalisms are on the rise, as we have just heard. but the european union must give priority to the mediterranean and its many challenges. it is essential to strengthen the dialogue with our southern neighbours and to relaunch the idea of a euro-mediterranean free trade area, which was the main economic objective of the barcelona process for the economic and social modernisation of the southern shore. i hope that the next joint communication - i think by this spring - from the commission and the european external action service will be really ambitious and take into account that stability and prosperity in the mediterranean are really essential for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 25th anniversary of the barcelona process is an opportunity to reflect on the results achieved, the great difficulties encountered and the current state of the process which sought to make the mediterranean a common area of peace, stability and prosperity through the instruments of dialogue, cooperation and social and cultural encounter. unfortunately, today, 25 years later, we have to say that instead of looking at that area - the mediterranean - and imagining it as a place to build bridges and develop, we have seen it as a source of problems that often have to be hidden like dust under the carpet and the results are unfortunately in plain sight. we must not be satisfied with this, and that is why i believe that we must start from the ambitious expectations of 25 years ago and give the mediterranean the central role it deserves. the challenges of peace, security, the fight against terrorism, respect for human rights, environmental protection and a positive and truly supportive approach to immigration are at stake.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i find it disconcerting to insist on telling our young people how beautiful and attractive an education and training system is, when in reality it is not, in relation to their future in work and society, because it is a system that has been sacrificed in recent years, also because of austerity. this council proposal risks becoming a dream book if we do not address some crucial issues: replace 'recommendations' with legally binding acts; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. recognise lifelong vocational training as a right, to address the digital and environmental transition through upskilling and reskilling. finally, and most importantly, to restore the working and social dignity of young people who undertake vocational training, starting with a genuine european reform of apprenticeship systems, because too often these young people are poorly paid and lack the minimum protection.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i seem to be noticing a certain euphoria among the members of this house for an ambiguous agreement, arrived at after months of exhausting negotiations and political positions which have shown the fractures and contradictions between the european institutions. the majority resolution we are about to vote on today is, in my view, contemptuous in tone and dangerous in method, and it seems that for those who see this european dimension as an absolute, the body which brings together the heads of state and government of the union - the european council - which in my view is the ultimate expression of our countries, has no legitimacy whatsoever. let us not forget that the european union exists because of the will of the member states to share sovereignty and objectives and that it is the member states that give legitimacy to the union and not the other way around. i find it frankly offensive and arrogant that the council's statements are called superfluous, as in the resolution, and that it even goes so far as to threaten the european commission and the other institutions if they do not follow the dictates of this parliament. i believe that this delusion of omnipotence must be stopped and that is why - contrary to what mr cioloş said - i would like to reaffirm an indispensable principle here, namely that important decisions must be taken unanimously, because this is the only truly democratic method, in my view, which protects those who think differently, which allows european democracies to defend themselves against the political and arbitrary use of certain rules. it is useless to defend the rights of minorities with words and resolutions if we want to impose a dictatorship of the single thought and delegitimize those who do not align themselves with it. with today's vote we have not closed anything, but we are securing ourselves a future of legal and constitutional uncertainty with an ambiguous role for the european court of justice, always waiting for the promised hundreds of billions to arrive, which i fear we will not see for several months. this muscular exercise between the institutions, in my view, has no winners, but certainly losers are the citizens, our businesses and our territories who were counting on swift and concrete support, including from the union, to get out of this very serious crisis as soon as possible. instead, they will have to be satisfied with the approval of the rule of law regulation, an instrument of political blackmail which has become an absolute priority for this european majority, which is celebrating today, a victim of its own myopia and of a political and institutional overreach, for which we will be called upon to answer sooner or later.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, it is good to see that, finally, at the 11th hour, the european council has given its green light so that support for citizens and economies hit hard by the pandemic can finally start. neither the european citizens and the economies which have been hard hit, nor the climate, could have waited any longer. but while it’s really good that those agreements have been reached, there are quite some worrying trends attached to each of the decisions, and the past weeks have seen a sad show of obstruction by the governments of hungary and poland, which have wanted to take the recovery fund hostage for their own anti—democratic agenda. mr orbán and mr kaczyński, you neither serve your citizens nor our common european future, and in the light of such blackmail we all need to stay and stand strong. and therefore it is really worrying to see the european council’s attempt to interpret the political agreement and the law agreed by the european parliament and the council. that is highly problematic. probably even more worrying is the commission’s role in this affair. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must reaffirm that its intention is to apply the legislation to the latter as agreed by the co—legislators and without any delay, and that also means not waiting for some judgments until some guidelines are drawn up. we have a law in place. it needs to be applied without delay – that is crucial. coupled with the presidency’s failure to organise a hearing on the article 7 proceedings on hungary, this really makes for a poor track record for the european union in its tackling of systemic democratic regressions in the middle of our common union. i want to stress again that the only law agreed is what parliament and council as co—legislators have decided previously. nothing of that law has changed, nothing of that law will change, and it needs to be enforced as of 1 january 2021 for both the current and the upcoming mff. on climate action, i welcome the fact that the governments managed to strengthen the european 2030 emission reduction targets, though a net decrease of at least -55% is still far short of the scientific consensus which is needed (-65%). parliament has made a strong mandate of a greenhouse gas emission of -60%, which we will continue to fight for in the upcoming weeks and months because, again, the law has been made according to the normal legislative procedure. however, the target agreed by the council of a 55% reduction is not an absolute but a net target, which is extremely worrying. and yes, of course we must protect and restore land, forests and other ecosystems in our fight to reverse climate change, but this should never be compensation for lessening efforts by the biggest emitters. if the european union is to be a global leader in fighting climate change, we will need to do more than just come up with some creative calculations. it’s regrettable that the european council gave in to pressure from the usual suspects, i have to say, to endorse in its conclusions gas as a transitional fuel, which it is simply not. if we are to overcome the climate crisis, the future has to be completely fossil fuel-free. the exclusion of all fossil fuels from the just transition fund was a clear signal and the european council should have followed suit. we expect and we need more ambition to tackle the problems at hand and we need fewer double standards from the heads of state and government. i hope this will improve in the future and i count on our common normal legal proceedings in order to draw up a good climate law. (applause)
as chairman of the committee on budgets and head of the delegation to the mff negotiating team, i am very pleased with the agreement we have reached. i have been able to interpret and defend the consensus in parliament with my colleagues consistently and actively. parliament has succeeded in setting its own accents and in safeguarding and even increasing the resources for future-oriented programmes on training, innovation, technological innovation and development. these are the programmes where the eu can create real added value and make a difference. but within the multiannual budget there are still some entrenched policy choices that continue to demand attention and resources. the shift towards the future could have been a lot more pronounced, in my view. the eu does seem to have a bit of a problem finding the right level of ambition on a regular basis, and that applies to climate policy as well. europe can and must lead the way towards a sustainable transition. however, the new target of 55% co2 reduction by 2030 raises a number of questions. take the impact assessment of this 55%. no serious analysis at member state and sectoral level is yet available. the impact of the covid-19 pandemic has also not been sufficiently addressed, as i believe, as has the impact on carbon leakage and smes, for example. most of the concerns i have just expressed are also very clearly reflected in the critical analysis of parliament's own research centre, eprs. i think it would be particularly useful to have a debate on this study. it should also be clear that each region has different possibilities and opportunities to reduce emissions cost-effectively. flanders, for example, is a small and densely populated region with limited open space and with important energy-intensive industrial clusters. europe must take account of this type of diversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the five star movement has said three 'yeses' today. yes to the recovery fund, symbol of a new europe that is betting on the future and making amends for the mistakes of the past: i'm going to say goodbye to austerity. for the first time, european bonds are being issued and funds are being transferred to the most deprived member states. yes to the multiannual budget: it is not perfect, but we are increasing the appropriations for the horizon, erasmus and investeu programmes, which are very important for young people and businesses, and we are finally opening up the own resources area. yes to the defence of the rule of law: we will defend the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the press everywhere and at all times. with these three convinced 'yeses' we will change the lives of european citizens for the better, while the sovereignists retreat and hide behind orbán's vets, lacking any political project. however, much remains to be done. we must prevent the mafia and organised crime from getting their hands on these european funds and we must restart the economy after the virus nightmare. but today it is certain: the european union is a great example of this.
the rapporteur. madam president of the commission! mr president of the european council! first of all, i would like to stress that the debate on the budget package this year has a very different meaning than the normal debate before any financial perspective. at the moment, the debate is about the future of europe. we can say that the budget debate has opened the conference on the future of europe. we're not just talking about saving the economy, helping the people. we are talking about what the european union should look like in the next few years. we remember that we started this work two years ago, and then commissioner oettinger was showing us the financial consequences of brexit. we also calculated the financial implications of the new assignments. and then the european parliament put forward its very ambitious agenda, saying that the european union should maintain its level of ambition despite brexit, and that's why our 2018 proposal was absolutely clear and understandable. we must defend the european union, and to do that we will have to find new means. and then there were two years of very difficult discussions and a pandemic that changed everything. the pandemic has led to discussions about a completely different way of financing. that's why the budget is smaller, because let's remember that the long-term financial perspective is smaller. we can't keep this from you. this financial perspective needs to be strengthened by the reconstruction fund and we hope that - we hoped at the beginning - that this fund will compensate for certain budgetary constraints. it didn't really compensate in the proposal, and that's why parliament fought to increase the budget itself. we have succeeded after many, many difficult conversations, and as you know, we have managed to increase the budget by 16 billion for important programmes for the future of europe, including research, but also the health fund, erasmus, which is very much needed today, and border protection. that's what we did. and that's why we think it's important to think of it as a package: budget plus fund. but, again, the budget without this fund is too small. we must make this clear, and that is why we very much hope that the member states, and more specifically the national parliaments, will now ratify the decisions on own resources very quickly, because the launching of the future fund depends on this. we're hoping that after the council decision this week, this whole process will move really, really quickly. we need it because we need to look at this package as a whole. the introduction of the package as a whole also - if i may say so - requires a change in the way it is financed, and that is why we will absolutely need a new own resources package, which is something parliament has also been working on, because this loan will indeed have to be repaid, but a new system of financing the european union for the future will have to be built. it was not easy, it was not easy between the member states in the council, nor was it easy in parliament. i would like to make it clear that if during the negotiations the council representative told us that it was difficult to find agreement among the 27 governments, we said: imagine how difficult it is to find agreement in parliament, where there are members from different countries, with different political options, with different political sensitivities. we did it. we did it. parliament is united, at least almost united, and that is our great victory, and that is important for the future. i would like to begin by very warmly emphasizing the role played by the european parliament as a whole in this whole matter, and i would like to thank the entire negotiating team, which has been working for two years - it has changed, but it has been working for two years. i would like to thank the european commission very much for this constructive approach, but i also draw attention to the extremely difficult task of the german presidency. as negotiators, we have seen that this presidency is constantly agreeing everything with the other members of the council. and that's why the final compromise wasn't so easy. i would therefore like to draw attention to the role of the german presidency, if you will allow me. for us as a parliament, a new period begins. on 1 january we begin a new financial perspective. from 1 january onwards, we can guarantee stability and certainty to all those who are waiting for this money, from 1 january onwards we can start certain activities that do not require long preparations and preparation of projects. we can start working on erasmus now, we can guarantee farmers that money will flow, we can also talk about the need to start with the science programmes. we're looking forward to hearing about the rebuilding fund. we appeal once again to all those who have worked on this process: a quick decision on own resources, ratification and finally the creation of the fund is needed. it is important for all eu citizens. i'd like to thank my colleagues who negotiated with me. i would like to thank very warmly the heads of all the political groups, including my political group in particular, for their political support, because this was a political process that lasted two years. we worked, but we were successful together.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the european council, i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on budgets for their work, and also the work of parliament's negotiators. there are still obstacles to be overcome, but it is now up to the national parliaments to do their part. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the new member states, and to extend it to include the new member states. a commitment which i would like to recall is binding on all three institutions. i would like to highlight briefly some of the relevant aspects of this report. firstly, the agreement sets out a roadmap for the introduction of new own resources over the next seven years. this has been a longstanding demand of parliament and finally, after more than three decades, we have achieved it. secondly, we are guaranteed that these own resources will be sufficient to cover the repayment and interest of the recovery instrument, so that we minimise the burden on future generations. thirdly, greater budgetary control is ensured over the expenditure financing the recovery instrument. fourthly, cooperation between the institutions is ensured to ensure the proper involvement of parliament as budgetary authority in the management of external revenue linked to the next generation eu, as well as full transparency and visibility of all funds. fifthly, the flexibility of the instruments is improved so that they are fully capable of responding to urgent needs or unexpected crises such as the present one. sixthly, specific provisions for cooperation between the institutions during the negotiation of the budgetary framework are included for the first time. in other words, we are doing what the treaties say. and seventh, in the framework of the recovery and resilience facility, we clearly pointed out the need for an objective, fair and transparent legal framework for the selection of projects to receive funding. and i want to highlight the role that local and regional entities must play in making recovery symmetrical, not just between states, but also between regions. in short, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very good agreement. but an agreement that is not understood if it is not within the package of commitment and solidarity, that is to say the multiannual financial framework, the recovery plan, the decision on own resources and the rule of law mechanism. and i want to talk about this mechanism, i want to make two considerations. first, it is born with trust and the hope of not being used: it seeks not to punish anyone, but to protect everyone. secondly, this mechanism also serves to send a message to the world: the economy is important, but without democracy and the rule of law we are no different from russia or china. this rule of law mechanism is the european differential. president michel, president von der leyen, i would like to finish by expressing a fear. the recovery plan is to be financed with money borrowed from the european union, but spent by the member states as if it were part of their own national budget. the next generation eu is not going to be spent by the european commission, and it's not going to be controlled by the european parliament. there is a flaw in this formula: things get complicated when the person spending the money is different from the person borrowing it. the minimum we can ask is that this money be used for something other than funding national programmes without regard to european interests and priorities. we have a common plan, not 27 plans, and we should have a common objective, not 27 objectives. otherwise we will have opened the door not to the creation of the european treasury, but to the decapitalization of the european project itself. member states may have found in the recovery plan an extraordinary financing path which does not require them to raise taxes or issue national debt. we may be opening the door to an unwelcome return to intergovernmental europe. the european debt must finance european policy; the european debt must finance the european union. financing member states with european debt is to build the european project. i hope that this time we will not be mistaken, that parliament will have its proper place and the commission too, because without parliament and without the commission there is a common market, but no european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, president von der leyen, minister roth, president michel, it has been two and a half years since we had the proposal for a financial framework and the regulation on budgetary conditionality on the table, and we have barely reached an agreement in time. we have reached the limit and this delay is certainly not because of parliament, because we have been waiting for two years for the council to be able to start negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. but in any case, at last, and now indeed - i can hardly believe it - we have a global agreement, an agreement which i very much welcome and, from what we are hearing here, so does the majority of this parliament. it is a good thing because we have managed to negotiate crucial points which were essential conditions for parliament to be able to adopt this package. the first thing was not to consider the july council position as closed, not to consider it non-negotiable. this has enabled us to improve the budget by eur 16 billion over the next seven years. this is not just a matter of figures: it is money that will go to programmes such as health, erasmus, research, creative europe, the cooperation instrument which we managed to close yesterday, humanitarian aid and others. and this is the important thing about budgets: getting the programmes financed. the second thing is to have a self-resource calendar. i said that in a previous sitting. there are many reasons why this agreement could not go ahead without a commitment on how we are going to finance not only the european budget, but also the recovery plan. it's a matter of fiscal justice. it cannot be that the usual people are the ones who support public policies with their taxes and the usual people are also the ones who avoid contributing. it is a question of efficiency, because the introduction of certain taxes only makes sense at european level, under the umbrella of the single market. it is a question of climate policy, because those who pollute the most should pay more and thus contribute to a just transition. i do not want to forget one important point which parliament has managed to negotiate in this financial framework. finally, another historic demand of parliament: the money from the fines, or at least part of it, imposed by the european union will remain in the budget and will allow us to improve the financing of european programmes. and thirdly, a point on which we have agreed, which is essential for parliament and which, as rapporteur, gives me particular hope: the mechanism linking budgets to respect for the rule of law. much has been written and said about the agreement, the vetoes and the council statement. i would like to say one thing about the latter: the council's statement is legally irrelevant. because when we talk about laws, the only thing that matters is the regulation. and this regulation contains exactly what parliament had asked for and what we have fought so hard for. we are a community based on common values and we must defend and respect them as citizens and as member states of the union. this is not a europe to the letter, as many would like. in this europe we cannot be left with rights and not obligations. how have we managed to improve the commission's proposal? we are considering a broader definition of the scope of application. we are not just talking about the rule of law in the strict sense, but we are also talking about the rights enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. we have introduced a preventive element into the mechanism, we have added a list of examples to clarify and we have even managed to include tax fraud and tax evasion among the objectives. and something this parliament has been very keen on: protecting the final beneficiaries. we wanted a very scrupulous mechanism with control and to make sure that it is the perpetrators of the violation of the rule of law who are going to be punished and not the final beneficiaries, neither students, nor researchers, nor companies, nor ngos. that was our goal. and with these modifications we have managed to give a safety net to these final beneficiaries. in short, the rule of law regulation, which we have had great difficulty in putting into effect, is a great step forward for europe. we also know that it will be adopted, because no amendments have been tabled and it will therefore be deemed to have been adopted without even having to be put to the vote. i shall not go into much more detail, especially since we have also finished another of these intense negotiations at six o'clock in the morning in the council, so we almost had to come straight here because we have yet to conclude the recovery plan, but we are on our way. these marathon negotiations are exhausting and often very frustrating. but we always have to try to stick with the best, the positive, when we get that deal. because in the end this is our task and we must be very clear about this: to negotiate, agree, build and define with regulations the europe we want to build together. so, for my part, i just want to thank the whole team, because it has been a very broad team (financial framework, own resources, rule of law regulation and all those who are now negotiating the recovery plan). of course the commission, the council and all the teams in the secretariat and in our groups, because one person cannot do this alone, nor two or three. this is joint work, and if we have achieved a good agreement and if we have achieved something historic for the european union - and i will not tire of saying that this is historic - it is because this parliament has worked as a team and we have carried out good negotiations with the german presidency and with the help of the european commission.
rapporteur. – madam president, we about to achieve something historic today. for the first time in the union’s history, we will have a functioning rule of law mechanism that does not need unanimity to work. this is a big victory for us, the co—legislators, but even more importantly it is a big and important victory for all european citizens. we started this process years ago. some of you might remember from the previous mandate when the commission published its proposal for this regulation. we in the parliament processed it fairly fast, but then we got stuck in the mud waiting for the member states to form their position. back then, many thought that the original proposal and the parliament’s mandate were too bold. some thought that this legislation would actually never even see the light of day, but we in the european parliament were vigilant. we really took the dangers posed to the rule of law seriously because we had noticed the deterioration of our values early. authoritarianism and disrespect for our basic values had already been on the rise in europe for years. considering this, it was high time for us to act. it was high time for a change of pace. however, the parliament does not of course have the means to stop this sad process alone. we need the member states to come along in this change, and a majority of them did. a majority of europeans were clearly backing their governments in this. there was scepticism along the way and i have to say that at times we were worried – some of us more than others – about some of the turns that took place. for example, the european council conclusions from july gave some room for speculation and even seemed a blow to our ambitious goals. however, this past october and november presented another turn of events. we had fruitful and serious negotiations with the german presidency, who managed to bring to the table the council’s proposal. extremely quickly, in about four weeks, we managed to reach a deal that respected the original ideas of the commission proposal as well as parliament’s mandate and, most importantly, our values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty. i want to thank wholeheartedly everyone involved in this process, my co—rapporteur, ms gardiazabal rubial, ambassador clauss from the german presidency, and our whole european parliament negotiation team, as well as commissioner hahn. i also want specifically to thank the chair of the epp group, manfred weber, for his support throughout these difficult negotiations. now we, as co—legislators, are finally about to adopt this legislation, along with other important budgetary files, here i want to emphasise the word ‘co—legislators’. the council and the parliament are the ones who have adopted this legislation. there has been a lot of a chatter about the european council conclusions. let me remind you that the european council shall not, and does not, exercise legislative functions and therefore any political declaration of the european council cannot be deemed to represent an interpretation of legislation. equally importantly, the treaty is very clear on the role of the commission. the commission is bound by the treaty to adopt the legislation and to implement it, and it will be done as of 1 january 2021. let me also thank the commission president for her extremely clear words on this. this is of the utmost importance. what actually is the rule of law that we are talking about here? it’s quite simply the cornerstone of our democratic existence in europe, so therefore it is the most important thing that we have. that’s why this step is very important for us. it will not end everything, but it will be the first step on our way. i hope we can reach a vast majority in this house for this historic law and i want to wish our independent commission and the guardian of the treaties wisdom and vigilance in its application of this law as of 1 january 2021. (applause)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, the louder the victory-screaming of the hungarian government gets, the more it is actually meant to cover up the actual facts. first of all, no agreement was reopened. secondly, none of the legal texts were changed. and thirdly, and most importantly, the rule of law conditionality is going to come. viktor orbán cannot cover that up no matter how loud he actually screams. but politically the question remains, and i personally don’t think that this is something that came out just last week, but it has been there all along. is this european commission, the guardian of the treaties, ready to stand up for the rule of law and fundamental rights even when it gets difficult? will you apply a fully functional applicable regulation that after its adoption will enter into force on 1 january 2021, or is this commission afraid of the noise of the autocrats and authoritarians in this union? i can tell you – and i have to repeat myself here – the european parliament is not afraid. with hundreds of millions of eu citizens we stand up for rule of law and democracy. listen to us. listen to these citizens, not to the noise coming from the autocrats and authoritarians. and lastly, dear colleagues in the epp – and i say this as someone who has worked closely and constructively with many of you over the years – it does not need another debate however intense it is going to be about where orbán and fidesz are heading. this party is set to undermine the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy. the facts are clear. what else has to happen for you to finally take action? the time for complacency is over. dear colleagues in the epp, act now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by making a request. monsieur charles michel, no more excuses, please hurry up. it's urgent. i have to go. we have an emergency situation. the recovery fund must be ratified, it must be brought to the economy as a matter of urgency. no more obstacles, no more blackmail. this is an urgent matter, and it is a request, and also do not look at the european union budget as an expense. the budget of the european union is an investment. the budget of the european union benefits everyone. they do away with the 'liquid contributors' and the 'liquid beneficiaries'. everyone benefits from the european union. we have a positive and historic agreement. i thank you, mrs von der leyen, and i thank you, mrs merkel, for proposing and dragging the council into this historic decision. we have a recovery fund for the first time of 750 billion euros, a multiannual financial framework of a reasonable amount, a binding road map for the decision on own resources. but we will have to pay the 750 billion euro debt and we cannot burden the citizens. the principle is simple: whoever doesn't pay must pay. we must also try to combat fraud and tax evasion, and these are resources which would be sufficient to pay for the multiannual financial framework in one year. we got a binding agreement. it is now urgent that this binding agreement on the introduction of the new own resources be respected and implemented. we will be vigilant. we will continue, as we have done for the past three years, to monitor and work towards a strong europe, a united europe, a sustainable europe in solidarity, and the multiannual financial framework and these resources must now, as i said at the beginning, be rapidly channelled into the economy. it is up to the member states to use these resources well, fairly and transparently, so that europe and all the member states are competitive and economically and territorially cohesive.
madam president, today it is the time of pride. we are at the end of the most dramatic year in the history of the european union and the pandemic is still not over. yes, people are still suffering a lot and some of them are even dying, but we have done our job, and we have to claim this and tell this with all our voice and our passion. today we can say we have finally closed up the agreement on the whole financial strategy, the recovery fund, the mff, the revision of own resources and together with the other programmes we can count almost eur 2 400 billion for fighting the crisis. we have to be proud of this european renaissance. we have to be proud of this huge mobilisation of resources never before put in place for our citizens, and we have to be proud to have strengthened the rule of law. no relativism on democratic values is acceptable. we have done our job and it is a good job. we have been united, notwithstanding our work differences. we have been determined, not withstanding our uncertainties. we have been efficient, notwithstanding what were long and sometimes incomprehensible procedures. we have been ambitious, notwithstanding our fears. i am on my first mandate. i am proud of having entered the european institutions in such a moment of change and historic commitment and for those who still do not believe in europe, who think that alone we could face dramatic challenges, let them come to brussels. for those who think that europe is only a giant of hype and bureaucracy, very far from people, let them come to brussels. for those who have to use a credit card before entering into a hospital, let them come to brussels. dear colleagues, we have done a huge and terrific job. we just have to go on.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since its presentation, the next generation eu, according to what was claimed not only by the media, would have found its biggest beneficiary in italy in terms of both grants and loans, but it has nevertheless pointed out that the final accounts will only be ready in a few weeks, with the final text on own resources, with the criteria and the items concerning the way in which the member states will actually contribute to the budget. however, we can already say that, taking into account the financial flows already known for the period 2021-2027 for italy, in the best case scenario, the entire next generation complex will be at zero balance, and this will always be if we become aware of all the details, the conditions, the rates and the methods of application of the various instruments, among which the most important and complex is the rrf, and not as is happening with sure whose details we have been waiting for incredibly since 2 november despite an urgent question submitted by colleagues from my party to the commission. we therefore call for transparency in all the instruments put in place by the commission, because parliament and its members are the highest expression of democracy in the union.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, have the vaccination campaigns been launched in the united kingdom, the united states, russia, china and the european union? delayed again, waiting for a green light from the european medicines agency. as with the management of the pandemic, the european union has acted badly, without coordination and with little transparency. each country acts on its own, for example, italy, because of bad government, will probably be last in the administration of vaccines for lack of needles, syringes and nurses. i would like to return to europe, and we would like clarity and seriousness. what are the deals with the drug companies? what are the terms of purchase? what's the price? who is responsible if unforeseen side effects should arise? how long will the virus cover? and how much protection do we have for our elderly? i mean, like i said, you need clarity, you need seriousness. the citizens in general cannot afford another failure of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ema would be prepared to grant authorization for the pfizer vaccine as early as 23 december and start vaccinations immediately after christmas. the news gives us a sigh of relief, but at the same time it is urgent to reassure the public about the safety of the vaccine. in britain, where the vaccine is already in use, allergic reactions have been reported and the ema director has admitted that the effects and risks on pregnancy, breast-feeding, fertility and children are unknown. despite the manufacturers' assurances it is clear that an incomplete trial has been carried out and we would not want to be faced with unexpected events once the vaccine is injected. we therefore want to be able to give informed consent based on accurate, transparent and consistent information for optimal and voluntary vaccination coverage. we must remember that the lives of our citizens and the socioeconomic future of our society are at stake.
in writing. it is certainly a positive development that the european commission has concluded contracts with several pharmaceutical companies for the purchase and supply of coronavirus vaccine doses at european level. however, a number of unanswered questions about vaccines remain, just days before the start of the vaccination campaign. first of all , the temperature . the pfizer vaccine must be stored at -80 degrees. how will the cold chain be secured from the time the vaccine is manufactured to its administration? in addition, the administration methods are not yet clear: how many doses will be given to people? other questions concern the price of the vaccine. why do some cost 30 euros a dose, while others, like the oxford vaccine, cost as little as three euros? and on timing, why has the uk started vaccinating over a week ago, while the european union keeps giving us vague and imprecise dates on the ema approval? another concern is the liability of vaccine-related harm: why should the member states have to compensate the pharmaceutical companies in this respect? there are many, many questions for which we are still waiting for a definite answer.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission certainly has good intentions, as the communication says that we must do everything possible to protect our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have heard many fine words, but they have not translated into concrete deeds, and the resolution we are voting on today is a testimony to that. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. on the contrary, it is only thanks to us that the text mentions, for example, terrorism of islamic origin, which, taken together, represents, to him, the greatest threat to our security, having claimed the deaths we have mourned in recent years throughout europe, such as those in strasbourg in 2018. the security of citizens must be controls at europe's external borders to prevent events like those in nice from happening again. we must concentrate on fighting serious crime, tackling the problems at the root and in a concrete way, which parliament unfortunately does not do today, lacking in courage and intellectual honesty. we are calling for a sudden change of direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner schinas, we shall soon have european legislation which will reconcile the urgency of combating the dissemination of terrorist content online with the right to freedom of expression. this is a fundamental achievement for the ecr and for mr jaki, the rapporteur of the joint proposal, whom i thank. unfortunately, there is a crucial element missing from this debate and from the joint text under voting: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i would point out that the closure of internal borders and the simultaneous, absurd pretense of keeping external borders open represents an unfair distribution of responsibilities between member states in the field of immigration, a threat to the security of our fellow citizens and a betrayal of the concept of european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new olaf regulation is necessary to adapt the legal framework following the establishment of the eppo and to determine its reports. but this parliament has done more than that and i am pleased with the outcome of these negotiations, because they have managed to preserve the independence of olaf and strengthen its investigative procedures. the system for the follow-up of recommendations between olaf and the member states has been improved. the controller has been set up for olaf investigations, who will check the procedures to ensure that they are correct, and the persons under investigation have been given access to the final report, all of which is a step in the direction we want. the introduction of the possibility for olaf to control bank accounts and initiate vat checks is also good. there is still room for improvement. for example, the controller should be a more independent figure with greater powers. the procedure for accessing documents must also be simplified. the problem of the budget for eppo and olaf and the fact that olaf investigations must also be carried out by the member states is clear.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we in this parliament are saying very clearly and very firmly today that we will no longer tolerate the continuing violation of human rights in egypt and, also because of our great friendship with the egyptian people, that we cannot stand by and watch. more than 60 000 people are detained for political reasons, in a climate of systematic repression of all forms of dissent and freedom. and from here, we say enough! we believe that the international community, the european institutions and the member states must react very firmly. the european union must demand the immediate release of patrick zaki, a young citizen who went to university in bologna, in europe, who has been imprisoned without explanation for more than 300 days, and with him the release of all those who, like him, are unjustly imprisoned for their opinions, for their work, for the expression of their thoughts, for their sexual orientation. we demand justice for the murder of giulio regeni, a european citizen who was the victim of shocking, senseless violence, and support for the italian judiciary which has initiated a trial against four egyptian intelligence agents, despite their many attempts to mislead them. we here in the european parliament express our utmost solidarity with the parents of giulio regeni and i personally fully agree with their request to recall the italian ambassador. europe, in accordance with its principles and values, cannot afford to hesitate. this also concerns european governments. that is why we say that targeted sanctions must be applied against egyptian officials guilty of violence, that diplomatic relations with egypt must be thoroughly reviewed, that arms sales must be suspended and that any dangerously ambiguous attitude towards al-sisi, such as president macron's absurd, astonishing choice to award him the legion of honor, which has nothing to do with our values, must be avoided.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, china has upgraded to the 21st century the tools to carry out genocide, using biometric and surveillance technology to ethnically cleanse millions of uighurs at the speed and precision of a computer. the chinese communist party acts through machines and thinks like machines. in factories, exploiting minorities to death, with the motto of brainwashing, cleansing hearts, upholding what is right, removing what is wrong. colleagues, dna mapping, facial scans, fingerprinting and voice recording, sterilizations, brainwashing - and there's worse - 82 global companies involved in the general silence, many of them european. 20% of the world's cotton comes from uyghur forced labor. the u.s. sanctioned 24 chinese companies specializing in artificial intelligence and facial recognition, and what did we do?
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today is fully endorsed by all. it is not the first time that we have been drafting and voting resolutions against bloodthirsty regimes, against those who repress the freedom of journalists, lawyers, men and women who fight for freedom. and i ask myself and i ask you, let's think together if we would have had the courage of these men and women. i come from a family that fought fascism and i sympathize with those who fight and have fought in the past for freedom. today the news is so fast that we had already decided to work on the case of nasrin sotoudeh who we obviously hope will be released soon but we also have to deal with the story of ruhollah zam, the journalist who was killed, the story of dr. djalali who is awaiting a death sentence, which we hope will not happen. nasrin sotoudeh's case is very similar to that of nasibe semsai, a woman arrested in turkey a few weeks ago, or fariba adelkhah. women and men who have a courage that we often lack. so let's ask ourselves this too, also in order not to render useless a debate and a resolution that i hope are important and maybe help us - we talked about it with the high representative a few weeks ago - to figure out what to do about this nuclear deal, what to do about relations with the united states, which in my opinion, will not change much in their opposition to the iranian regime, because if the western front is divided, we risk not being effective in the fight against a regime that must be fought and possibly overthrown.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to dedicate my speech to mrs nasrin sotoudeh. the ayatollahs in charge of the islamic republic of iran discredit, even offend islam. in their documents they write in the name of god, the most compassionate and merciful, but their malicious and destabilizing daily action is based only on oppression. they are men of anger, contemptuous of human dignity and the wealth that comes from diversity. as the european union we must admit that it was shortsighted and even a little naive to think that the p5+1 agreement should be limited to the nuclear issue alone, we should have included freedom of thought and human rights. we think that to run a modern state with religion is insane. the failure to integrate human dignity into the action of government is murderous and we must fight the murderers and stand with the people of israel.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. their names are a warning to us europeans. their lives hang in the balance and every day could be their last, as could be the case for thousands of political opponents and members of the public held in iranian prisons. we must give a voice to those who no longer have a voice: 30,000 political prisoners massacred in 1988, 1,500 protesters killed in november 2019 and more than 1,000 people killed in the last two years. all this cannot leave us indifferent: the ayatollah regime continues to refuse to implement 67 un human rights resolutions in the country. this is not acceptable. tehran continues to deny the evidence, to disregard its commitments, to violate international treaties, not only in the field of human rights. the european union must go beyond the sanctions regime and use all diplomatic means to establish an international commission of inquiry into the 1988 massacre and put an end to this incredible terrorism.
in writing. the imprisonment of lawyer nasrin sotoudeh is the most obvious demonstration of the dictatorial and anti-freedom character of the islamic republic of iran. we wonder how long europe will remain silent in the face of iran's repeated violations of human rights. the commission has done nothing to secure the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh and all political prisoners in iranian prisons. and let's not forget, iran does not respect women's basic rights but tramples them in the name of religion. we stand firmly with the activists who work to defend rights and who cry out to the world, the urgency of freedom for women and all the oppressed. europe has too often, out of goodwill and fear, not openly condemned the treatment of women in many islamic countries. this silence is no longer acceptable!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank vice-president šefčovič and negotiator barnier, who has now had to leave the chamber. in my previous experiences, i learned many things. my father had a small business, and i learned that the customer was always right, that people who came to him to buy things should not be slapped in the face. that is partly what some of the arsonists in this house would like and have wasted many months of tough and complex negotiations, and as a member of the committee on international trade i know how complex trade negotiations are. today is 18 december and we must give thanks above all to the fact that britain has not been able to conclude a trade agreement with the united states. it would probably have replaced some of the goods that normally come from our single market to them. someone said that, there was little transparency. some political groups are totally excluded from the flow of information. i know this is normal, it happens in other trade negotiations too, but it is one of the problems that we have discussed with our friends in the committee on international trade, as you know very well, and it is a problem that applies today and will apply in the future. i do not agree with those who complain about the level of standards in britain because, if it was a country that was with us until the other day, the same european parliament that gives the ok to trade agreements with asian realities that do not respect environmental standards, workers' rights; we have not suspended turkey from the customs union with the european union, i mean, it would be hypocritical at least to raise these issues at this stage. so let's turn the page, think about european businesses and workers and try to understand the lesson that has come from brexit.
