the 13th of january 1991 was the last of the battles of the second world war that took place in the baltic states. late, because it was almost 50 years since the molotov-ribbentrop pact, but it was won. thank you, mr. president, for taking the unforgettable step today that many of my colleagues have taken. today, january 13 is remembered not only as a day of tragic loss, but also as a day when freedom fighters were killed or injured by tank shells. today is a day of victory for us, paving the way to the european union and nato. the second world war finally ended for us two years later on september 1, 1993, when the soviet army was withdrawn from lithuania. this memorial on your shoulders is a mark of respect and remembrance for all the victims of soviet communism: from the baltic states, poland, romania, bulgaria, albania, and also for the millions murdered in russia itself. today i have the opportunity to thank all my colleagues who voted for the important resolution on the russian federation's actions against the investigators and judges of the january 13th case in november. the solidarity you have shown is a very important european value.
madam president, i would like to say to the prime minister that, coming from lithuania, it is a special pleasure to congratulate him and also the people of croatia on their first presidency. your presidency is also very important because of its very high symbolic value. just 25 years after the war of independence ended, croatia is leading the whole european union. croatia is a most convincing example of the european miracle and power to bring stability and prosperity into its neighbourhood through enlargement. the commission president was absolutely right in saying that the eu promise of enlargement is a most powerful incentive for countries to reform themselves. the croatian example and the croatian presidency is a great inspiration to their neighbours in the western balkan region. the success of the western balkans’ integration is also a great inspiration for the eastern partnership region. i hope that the eastern partnership summit, during the croatian presidency, will also be ambitious in delivering an inspiring regional strategy for the next ten years. good luck, mr prime minister.
madam president, we need to see that iran and iraq are part of a broader picture, which is developing in the regions surrounding the eu. we see more totalitarian regimes which are becoming more aggressive or we see more meddling and destabilisation. we see it in the south in libya and syria, in the middle east in iran and iraq, and in the north east next to russia. some of those regimes imagine that their power is increasing and that the power of the west in the region is diminishing. that feeling is a temptation for them to become more aggressive. we also need to see that the us is diminishing its presence in the region and invites nato and the eu to be more present. until now, we in the eu are better at speaking about our strategic autonomy than we are able to show the strength of our real strategic autonomy in the neighbourhood of the eu. this is the way to have more instability and chaos in our neighbourhood. mr vice—president, during the hearing procedures in the committee on foreign affairs, you spoke very convincingly, saying that, if the eu wants to be globally significant, it needs to be powerful enough to bring stability to its neighbourhood. it’s time to implement your vision.
madam president, i would like first of all to thank my colleagues for the really very good reports. i will make just three remarks. first, the first goal of our foreign and security policy should be very clear: europe whole, free, and at peace. the only effective policy to achieve this is enlargement and integration. this is how even the success of ukraine can be created, and the success of ukraine is the only instrument whereby the house can assist with the long-term transformation of russia back towards democracy. second, it’s time to go to qualified majority voting on security and foreign policy issues, otherwise we shall have the strategic autonomy to make empty statements but without strategic autonomy of real strength and power. finally, when we are speaking about european strategic autonomy and nato, i would suggest that you use much clearer language. we need nato and american nuclear deterrents on the european continent because of an aggressive and nuclear russia. and because the eu’s neighbourhood is becoming more unstable, we also need to have the real strategic autonomy of our diplomatic and military forces to stabilise our neighbourhood.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank both rapporteurs for a very good job, but, if the european union would like to play a real role in today’s challenging world, if we have the ambition to be ahead not only in this role, first of all, of course we should strengthen our diplomatic and economic activities trying to de-escalate the situation around the eu borders, but this is not enough because in our neighbourhood we have unpredictable regimes in syria, iraq, iran and russia. we should increase our resilience and build up capabilities. authoritarian regimes understand only dialogue with powerful players and if we would like to be an autonomous powerful actor, we need to allocate enough resources to build effective capabilities, and for that to allocate resources, and 2% from gdp for defence in each member state should be our nearest target.
madam president, today’s issue is not about our understanding of history. we know very well our history and the tragedies of our history which were brought about also by stalin. today, we are having this debate because we were very much surprised by the recent performance of mr putin, by his soviet-type propaganda attack on real history, by his strange attempts to convince everyone that poland was guilty by itself, that hitler and stalin divided her and occupied her. today we’re standing together for the defence of the true history of europe and we are standing together with poland against this kremlin propaganda attack. i will end with a very simple statement. mr putin, you will not succeed in your attempts to divide europe on the history issue. we are standing for the truth because truth makes you free, and that is the strength of europe. we would like to wish the same sense of real truth and freedom upon the ordinary russian people. the history lesson is very simple: the truth, in the end, wins. it will win also in russia – i hope soon.
dear prime minister, i am lithuanian, i am left-handed, but i was also born in a deportation camp. so today i rejoice, as both the left and the right say, knowing the crimes of fascism. we condemn the lithuanians because we also sacrificed almost 200,000 of our jewish citizens, but stalin, stalin's communists, had already driven tens of thousands of our citizens out of lithuania before the nazis entered lithuania, and after the war they drove a few hundred more out and killed them. so when we talk about one authoritarian regime killing people, we can't forget about the other. and if we want to build a democratic europe, we have to talk about it. and i think it's very important for our colleagues here in the european parliament who don't know that they know that and that we can build a democratic and free europe.
madam president, i'd like to start with a little fun. first of all, i would like to thank president putin of russia for the great publicity he gave to the resolution that we initiated and that was adopted by the european parliament. second, putin relied on archival material still classified in russia, using it as a tool for information warfare. i suggest to president putin that we open the stalinist archives not selectively, but completely. we need to know how stalin refused to accept jews from hitler's occupied poland in 1939. putin could order the return of kgb archives stolen in 1991 to lithuania. we want to know how the lithuanian leader of the anti-soviet resistance, john zemaitis, was murdered in a moscow prison. the world must know how in 1944 the red army was allowed to rape women, to kill civilians as soon as they crossed the border of the kingdom. how they cut open the wombs of pregnant women and pulled out their unborn babies. instead, we see a worship of stalin promoted by the kremlin. totalitarianism starts with a lie. it is our duty to defend the truth in order to defend the peace we have won.
dear prime minister, the coronavirus, despite the assumptions, is still coming. there's nothing surprising about it epidemiologically. it is estimated that each infected person spreads the infection to an average of two and a half people, so to break the chain of transmission, it is necessary to isolate 60% of those who have been in contact. and as you might expect, in china, this virus was not isolated. historically, there have been examples of this. 100 years ago, there was the spanish virus, and the experience of that might not be relevant to us, but in the 21st century, we have sars, and that experience is accumulated. i think the plan of measures is pretty clear to the professionals. i agree that information campaigns are very important in the short term, and in the long term i agree with those who talk about more investment in research.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. commissioner, thank you for your introduction. i think we all really understand how important the stability pact is to our financial security. but what made me stand up and speak out was your statement that our future growth may cross the green line. are there really rules that exist (and maybe you could comment more) that might limit us to seeing green growth as a challenge rather than an opportunity to grow our economy more? and does the complexity of the rules not limit the investment in high technology and science that is so important for the achievements of science to be realized here in europe?
madam president, it is very clear that in this house the majority agrees that enlargement until now has been one of the most successful eu policies, which contributed to extending the area of democracy, peace and prosperity across europe. the prospect of eu membership always was, is and will be in the future a fundamental incentive for reforms in applicant countries. that is why, what the commissioner proposed in the commission’s communication, i consider as a very important strategic and a good step forward, making the whole process, first of all, more credible. of course, credibility depends, first of all, on the efforts of applicant countries to reform themselves, but it also depends on the responsibility of the eu member states. the whole process cannot depend on one or another eu member state, which can block the whole enlargement process without any serious arguments. the qualified majority vote should become the rule in the whole enlargement process in order to make it more credible. mr commissioner, i’m absolutely sure, your efforts to make credible enlargement happen will have credible and strong support in this house.
mr president, we are currently engaged in a lively debate on the european green deal - the european union's growth strategy, which must not only neutralise our impact on climate and strengthen the protection of the environment and biodiversity, but also ensure the well-being of europe's people. the common agricultural policy will also have to aim at greater environmental, economic and social sustainability. at the same time, it will have to promote the development of vibrant rural areas, ensuring a fair income for farmers and rural people. but we will not achieve the social and economic sustainability necessary for the success of the green path if farmers in different eu countries continue to receive different pay for the same work. in lithuania and the other baltic countries, farmers working under the same conditions, ensuring high standards of food safety and quality, environmental protection and animal welfare, still receive direct payments that are well below the european union average. the new green course is a historic opportunity. to preserve our planet and the future of our children and grandchildren, we must ensure fairness, equal and fair opportunities for all lithuanian farmers, as well as equitable payments.
i have to say, madam president, if we look at the second half of the 20th century - the war of liberation, the vietnam war, agent orange - the enormous challenge of economic recovery and transformation in vietnam becomes clear, and with it the task that the leadership of that time set itself: opening up to the world market to enable this economic and social development. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, instead of concluding a free trade agreement and an investment protection agreement with the socialist republic of vietnam, we should have taken the opportunity to conclude a cooperation agreement. we could have done this by putting the issue of living and working conditions in vietnam and climate change on the agenda together with our partners. i welcome the steps taken by vietnam to ratify certain core labour standards of the ilo and acknowledge the hope that vietnamese trade unionists have expressed in this development. the chapter on occupational safety and the environment is not very well developed. i therefore support the european trade union congress in its warning against the agreement in its present form and its ratification.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i want to thank the house for their contributions, but it is an opportunity as well to thank some people that have been involved in the eu—vietnam negotiations. can i thank mr lange, the chair of the committee on international trade (inta), mr bourgeois, the rapporteur, and all the shadows who have been involved in the scrutiny of this particular deal? to note that the four committee chairs that are indirectly involved in this scrutiny have given their support for the deal. can i thank former commissioner, cecilia malmström, and the dg trade officials for their tremendous work over many years in relation to this deal? as many speakers have said, these are the first trade and investment agreements to be voted on by this parliament. and i hope that they will receive your approval so that our companies, particularly our smes that have been mentioned by many of you, can start tapping into the potential and generate growth and employment. in such uncertain times for global trade, a positive vote of course will send a strong signal in relation to the eu’s commitment to an open and fair trade based on rules and values. i can assure you that we will monitor implementation very closely, because i agree with many of you that there are issues that have to be resolved and will constantly require us to ensure the vietnam lives up to its commitments. i’m fully aware of these particular sentiments. but, in relation to some of the specifics that we mentioned, horse trade is usually associated with market access, and this has been a very good deal in terms of eu-vietnamese reciprocity in so many products. mr juncker has mentioned issues in relation to food and can i confirm that the free trade agreement liberalises all eu export offensive interests, like beef, pork, poultry, wines, spirits and beer, but it also has safeguards for some of our sensitive issues, like rice, sugar, sweetcorn and canned tuna. these safeguards are a new dimension in relation to our free trade agreements in recent years, which includes for the first time a free trade agreement that we are ratifying where safeguards are given in respect of tariff rate quotas (trqs). we have also got recognition by vietnam in this deal for the european union to be treated as a single entity for sanitary and phytosanitary terms, which will reduce a lot of the non-tariff barriers that we have. equally, our 169 geographical indications right around the european union have been protected. on the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter, improving the implementation and enforcement of all our agreements is very important, and this is a key priority for the commission. vietnam is a good example of where they are making considerable efforts even before the deal has been implemented in relation to tsd matters, with important progress being made. so the pressure that you’ve applied is certainly bearing fruit. but we have also established an institutional structure through the domestic advisory groups, which will include all stakeholders, including ngos, civil society, businesses and all the services that will have an input in relation to the implementation of this agreement. the implementation is very important. that’s why we’re establishing as well in the commission a chief trade enforcement officer during the course of the next few months. the new labour code, which was adopted in november 2019, recognises the principle of freedom of association possibly to set up independent trade unions at enterprise level, as i mentioned earlier, which is outside the scope of the dominant vietnam general confederation of labour. so vietnam has started the implementation. it has a master plan that’s going to be implemented by january 2021 and one of the aspects is to check its consistency with all other legal documents, including the penal code and the criminal code. the ilo conventions has said that six out of eight are implemented. we’re at the same stage as we were in terms of the implementation of this agreement with japan. so i think this is good progress by vietnam. vietnam has started preparations to set up these independent civil society organisations, and last week they gave me an action plan and a timescale in relation to their implementation. i mentioned child labour. there has been a 40% reduction since 2012 and of course they are committed to a new action plan to eradicate poverty over the 2021—2025 period. some members have mentioned human rights, and rightly so. it does remain an area of concern in our relationship with vietnam, but we must take into account where the country has come from and see clear evidence of progress in the last 25 years, notably in the socioeconomic domain. human rights improvements are central to our engagement, and there’s a binding and enforceable link between the fta, investment protection agreement (ipa) and the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) that allows for total or partial suspension of the agreement in case of systemic or severe breaches on human rights. we also have an annual human rights dialogue and there’s a meeting next week in hanoi so these are all, i think, positives. there are divergences between us and i’m not saying anything otherwise, but we are convinced that the agreements provide an initial platform to engage with vietnamese society and governments on these issues. this is the view of several vietnamese ngos who say that the implementation of this agreement would open more space for civil society. now clearly ms daly and mr wallace have not heard those particular voices in relation to that part of the deal. the eu is of course also closely concerned about political prisoners and persons of concern. we have a list of persons of concern that we have been regularly raising in our exchanges at the highest level. and we are striving to make sure that the eu delegation are not only consistently ensuring that these people are released, but also attending trials, meeting family members and providing the best possible facilities for the families of these political prisoners. the fta and the ipa will create another important and conducive environment to ensure that these issues are not put under the table, but are consistently high on the agenda. the lack of ratification of the agreement would leave the european union with no instrument at all to support a reform agenda for vietnam, and we will push vietnam closer to other partners that do not necessarily share the same values if we don’t have this agreement. the institutional set up again, as i mentioned in the context of various fora to speak about these issues, is very important. environment was mentioned: of course vietnam is one of the countries that are most affected by climate change. so surely they are interested in implementing the paris agreement, which they have signed up to. and, under the trade and sustainable development chapter, this is explicitly mentioned. so their national determined contributions are going to ensure, like other partners around the world where we do deals, that are going to have to implement this in a legally binding way, as they have signed up to in relation to the paris agreement. so this is another win and another example of where we are providing the framework where we can implement, through this free trade agreement, the necessary leverage to ensure that these commitments are met. vietnam has also concluded with the eu a forest law enforcement, governance and trade voluntary partnership agreement (flegt vpa), which has been enforced since 1 june 2019. and this particular partnership agreement aims to ensure that all timber products imported into the european union from vietnam are legal. this is very significant as vietnam is a major processing hub, importing timber from over 80 countries, including from a number of high-risk countries in the region such as cambodia. under the vpa, vietnam has to introduce mandatory due diligence obligations for its importers. vietnam is currently working on the implementation of this particular scheme through the various licences that will have to ensure traceability. so our one major success in this field has been the open and constructive participation of all the relevant stakeholders in vietnam during the negotiation phase. these are the issues that have come to the fore and we have got a response. we have to continue ultimately of course to reach our final destination and our objectives. finally, on this issue in relation to concern about the investment court system, following the european parliament’s demands, the investment protection agreement with vietnam includes the most modern and reformed investment protection framework in any agreement with an investment court system for the resolution of investment disputes, replacing the traditional investor-state dispute settlement (isds) arbitration mechanism, and this has been confirmed as the proper way to go by the european court of justice decision that was recently made. so all of the elements of the isds under ceta are included in the ipa with vietnam, which is an additional stepping stone towards the establishment of a multilateral investment court. finally, in conclusion, could i say that, by voting in favour of this free trade agreement, you are voting in favour of a deal that will give us the political and institutional influence and the proper structures to make improvements on issues like human rights, like labour rights, like climate change and like environment policies. by voting ‘no’ you are consigning our influence to resolutions and letters that may or may not be taken into account and will most probably be ignored. this agreement puts the eu and vietnam together in a political structure and enforcement mechanisms that will deliver common objectives, in particular in the policy areas that have been mentioned in this house. i know that many of these issues have been of concern for many years. now we have a structured way in which we can deal with these issues. so it is time to be positive, to acknowledge that the eu stands together with the people of vietnam, and vote positively for this deal.
in writing. while donald trump is extolling the facilities granted to so-called developing partners is china not one from the point of view of the wto? the european union is plunging into economic suicide with increasingly disastrous results. it is not a matter of the commission's being too cautious in granting the generalized preferences which vietnam enjoys, but of its being equally inept in trade negotiations. trade with that country, however, would put it in a position of strength. it's not. a case in point: while the european union recognises 39 vietnamese pgi, vietnam would only recognise 36 french pgi, including champagne, with a transitional period of ten years! the agreement is obviously not good news in terms of human rights. in addition to freedom of association, in 2012, 1.75 million vietnamese aged 5 to 17 were still involved in child labour. as for our industries - especially the textile industry, historically established in the far east - they will pay with a new bloodletting for this race to the least social, vietnamese wages capping at 59% of chinese wages, which probably explains the haste to conclude this agreement.
the eu-vietnam free trade agreement creates new opportunities for both estonia and the eu, as well as for vietnam. it also has a much broader meaning, as at a time when multilateral rules-based trade is in doubt, the eu is strengthening its relations with asia (similar agreements have already been concluded with singapore and japan). this sends a signal to the rest of the world, and particularly to protectionist tendencies, that the eu is open to constructive international cooperation. the eu-vietnam free trade agreement is the most comprehensive and ambitious agreement of its kind ever concluded between the eu and a developing country. with a population of nearly 100 million, vietnam is one of the fastest-growing economies in the association of southeast asian nations, or asean. the agreement will eliminate virtually all tariffs between vietnam and the eu within 10 years, while protecting european products with a symbolic meaning and allowing european companies access to the vietnamese public procurement market. the main eu imports from vietnam include telecommunications equipment, clothing and foodstuffs. the eu exports to vietnam are mainly machinery and transport equipment, chemicals and agricultural products. the eu will also have greater influence over vietnam on human rights and environmental issues once the agreement enters into force. the free trade agreement includes a commitment to protect the fundamental rights of workers, the human rights of the population at large and the environment.
in writing. the free trade agreement with vietnam is an opportunity for the eu economy as a whole to increase the volume of new trade markets for eu goods. the agreement also provides a model for the eu's trade relations with emerging economies. a model where we negotiate as equal partners and share a structural reform agenda to promote growth and employment, support competitiveness, fight poverty and consolidate. vietnam is a growing, competitive and connected economy with a population of almost 100 million, a growing middle class and a young and dynamic workforce. vietnam is also one of the fastest growing asean countries with an average gdp growth rate of around 6,51% between 2000 and 2018. vietnam is also one of the most open and free-trade-oriented economies in the region. the free trade agreement will help to open up new opportunities for economic growth and development for both sides, for example by significantly reducing tariffs on eu products, including cars, car parts, machinery and poultry, while protecting particularly sensitive sectors. the eu is currently vietnam's largest trading partner after china and its second largest export market after the usa. it would be worthwhile to continue this trend in the future.
in writing. we greens reject both the trade and investment protection agreements with vietnam. these are 'old-school' agreements with special rights for investors and no enforceable environmental or social standards. the eu is giving this trade agreement the chance to actively promote human rights and the environment along global production chains, despite the european parliament's call to the eu commission to do so in its resolution on the european green deal of 15 january 2020. in vietnam we are witnessing violations of human rights and repression of organized workers. we need a paradigm shift in european trade policy. the eu commission must implement the european green deal in future trade agreements!
in accordance with the rules of procedure, i have decided to impose a sanction on ioannis lagos for disturbing the sitting of the chamber on 29 january 2020 by using abusive language and displaying and tearing a piece of paper symbolizing a national flag. the sanction is the loss of the right to a residence allowance for a period of seven days and the temporary suspension from participation in the activities of parliament and its bodies for a period of four consecutive days starting today, 11 february. this decision has of course been notified today to the person concerned who can bring an internal appeal against this decision before the bureau in accordance with the rules of procedure.
the report by mr costas mavrides, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report of the european central bank for 2018 (2019/2129(ini)) (a9-0016/2020) is on the agenda. i now turn to the rapporteur, mr mavrides, and i welcome mrs lagarde and commissioner dombrovskis to the house.
rapporteur. – mr president, this report reflects the well-established relationship between the european parliament and the ecb. in fact, such a report is the main instrument for expressing our views towards ecb policies for maintaining price stability and strengthening the eurozone economies, thereby leading to a higher degree of real economic convergence. the timing is important. this report is the first of the new legislative term and following the election of the new ecb president. and, of course, like the president has said, we are very glad to have you here today with us, ms lagarde. the report focuses on the review of the current ecb policies, future monetary policy, actions against climate change, and a stronger global role for the euro. regarding the monetary policy actions of the ecb in 2018 and their impact on the euro area economy, we welcome the ecb’s role in safeguarding euro stability. the non-standard monetary policy measures put in place by the ecb contributed to economic recovery, to an improvement in financing conditions and to compressing yields across a wide range of asset classes. we also stress that the very low or negative interest rates offer opportunities to consumers, companies (including smes), workers and borrowers who can benefit from stronger economic momentum, lower unemployment and lower borrowing costs. at the same time, we ask the ecb to keep monitoring potential risks to its balance sheets, asset price inflation, disadvantages to savers and the potential impact on pension and insurance schemes. however, we are concerned that after a short economic recovery, euro area growth momentum has slowed to 1.1% of gdp in the euro area, and therefore we note the need to maintain both the liquidity conditions and a degree of monetary accommodation. recognising the sustainable growth cannot be achieved by monetary policy alone. we underline that supportive fiscal policy is also necessary. we also agree with ecb president christine lagarde’s statement that a review of the ecb’s monetary policy framework is timely and warranted, and we stress that this should be done by organising a public consultation and involving parliament. an important point also raised in this report is the finding of the european system of central banks expert group on low wage growth, stating the disconnect between wage growth and labour market recovery ceteris paribus. accordingly, the unemployment rate in august 2019 stood at 6.2% in the eu and 7.4% in the euro area, the lowest since july 2008. but this drop in unemployment has not been reflected in wage growth. two words strengthening the role of the euro area. it requires the right structural conditions, including the deepening of the european monetary union, the completion of the banking union with the european deposit insurance scheme and the completion of the capital market union. special emphasis is given to the fight against climate change and the implementation of the paris agreement. we stress that the ecb is bound by the paris agreement on climate change and this should be reflected by implementing the environmental, social and governance principle into its policies. we underline other aspects interrelated with ecb policies regarding brexit, the capital markets union, crypto-assets, the need to increase monitoring and to have a comprehensive regulatory framework, the importance of micro, small and medium-sized businesses in the eu and their access to credit, more efforts to ensure the financing of the real economy and much more. on accountability, we welcome the increasing accountability under the presidency of mario draghi and we express our will for even greater accountability, dialogue and openness with the current president. a final point. it is essential to formulate our monetary policy but also to communicate it to our citizens, as they need to understand the importance and the impact of those policies on their lives. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive and fruitful collaboration during the negotiations, and i do believe that the european parliament and the ecb have a common objective. this was my primary objective when i drafted this report – to improve the lives of our citizens by achieving real economic convergence and to strengthen the role of the eu as it is our common home.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, executive vice-president dombrovskis, rapporteur mavrides, honourable members of the european parliament, i am delighted to participate for the first time in a plenary session and to discuss your draft resolution on the ecb’s annual report for 2018. independence and accountability are two sides of the same coin for the ecb, and one will not exist without the other. this is why the ecb’s relationship with the european parliament is so important. the ecb’s annual report is a central element of this relationship, and parliament’s resolution and the subsequent feedback we publish are evidence of the good dialogue between our two institutions. having only joined the ecb almost to the day 100 days ago, i read the draft resolution with particular interest. what struck me in particular was our shared assessment of many of the challenges facing the ecb and the euro area. i felt exactly the same as i was listening to you, mr mavrides. indeed, the universal nature of these challenges underscores the need for our continued dialogue. today, i would like to focus on two of the overarching concerns that stand out from the draft resolution. number one, the role of monetary policy in the current economic environment and, number two, the structural challenges facing the euro area economy. euro area growth momentum has been slowing down since the start of 2018, largely on account of global uncertainties and weaker international trade. moderating growth has also weakened pressure on prices, and inflation remains some distance below our medium-term aim. against this background, the ecb’s governing council has acted in a determined fashion to achieve price stability, which is the mandate that we have under the ecb treaty. the ecb’s monetary policy since 2014 relies on four elements: a negative policy rate, asset purchases, forward guidance, and targeted lending operations. these measures have helped to preserve favourable lending conditions, support the resilience of the domestic economy and – most importantly in the recent period – shield the euro area economy from global headwinds. our policy stimulus has supported economic growth, resulting in more jobs and higher wages for euro area citizens. as you just mentioned, mr mavrides, euro area unemployment, at 7.4%, is at its lowest level since may 2008. wages, as you have mentioned as well, increased at an average rate of 2.5% in the first three quarters of 2019, significantly above their long-term average. 2.5%. but monetary policy cannot, and should not, be the only game in town. the longer our accommodative measures remain in place, the greater the risk that side effects will become more pronounced. we are fully aware that the low interest rate environment has a bearing on savings income, asset valuation, risk-taking and house prices. we are closely monitoring possible negative side effects to ensure that they do not outweigh the positive impact of our measures on credit conditions, job creation and wage income. such reflections played a role, for example, when the governing council decided to introduce a new regime for remunerating the excess reserves held by banks with the eurosystem, the famous clearing system that we introduced. other policy areas – notably fiscal measures and structural polices – also have to play their part. these policies can boost productivity growth and lift growth potential, thereby underpinning the effectiveness of our measures. indeed, when interest rates are low, fiscal policy can be highly effective: it can support euro area growth momentum, which in turn intensifies price pressures and eventually leads to higher interest rates. the european green deal and national initiatives to finance the ecological transition could add to these dynamics by contributing to stronger and more sustainable growth. the european parliament’s draft resolution on the ecb’s annual report highlights three structural developments affecting the ecb’s operating environment: digitalisation, climate change and the institutional architecture of economic and monetary union. i would like to use the remaining time that i have to discuss very briefly these three challenges. digitalisation and climate change were not made in europe. they are global phenomena. they will not wait for us to gear up and get ready; they will affect us whether we are ready or not. so we need to prepare as best we can. in this spirit, the ecb is assessing the potential and implications of technological developments for payment services and financial stability, and it is also making an active contribution to such innovations. to this end, we set up a eurosystem task force in january to investigate the opportunities and challenges associated with different potential designs for a central bank digital currency and to test how they would work in practice. in particular, we want to assess whether a central bank digital currency could serve a clear purpose for the public and support the ecb’s objectives. together with five other central banks and the bank for international settlements, we will share experiences in this area and assess the potential cross-border use of such digital currencies. we also have to gear up on climate change – and not only because we care as citizens of this world. like digitalisation, climate change affects the context in which central banks operate. so we increasingly need to take these effects into account in central banks’ policies and operations. the ecb has already moved in this direction. first, we are working to extend our knowledge about the economic impact of climate change and ensure that its effects are better reflected in our economic analyses, in our models and in our forecasting methods. second, through its financial stability tasks, the ecb is monitoring systemic risks stemming from climate change and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy. this work will ultimately enable us to test how well the euro area banking sector is able to withstand climate-related risks. finally, the ecb has taken steps to align its own investment decisions with the objectives of the paris agreement. this is so in our staff pension fund, for instance, where we decided to switch to a low-carbon index, and we are investigating what else we can do in our market operations. the strategy review launched by the ecb’s governing council last month will also take stock of how rapid digitalisation and the threat to environmental sustainability – together with globalisation and evolving financial structures – have further transformed the environment in which monetary policy operates. the strategy review will consider all aspects of the ecb’s policy framework. we need to reflect on how we can best deliver on the ecb price stability mandate for the benefit of all european citizens. as part of this process, we will consult with the public and listen to their views, expectations and concerns with an open mind. we will indeed also work very closely with those in your parliament who are directly interested and concerned about those particular matters and we have begun that journey. while i have thus far focused on the ecb, it is important to recognise that digitalisation and climate change are universal developments that affect all of us in europe and worldwide. but europe is uniquely positioned to master these challenges. building on common safeguards and competitive incentives, the single market offers enormous potential for economic modernisation. europe can harness this potential in its quest to design effective and affordable responses to the challenges at hand. but an important pillar of europe’s response to an increasingly globalised world – economic and monetary union (emu) – should not be forgotten in the process. and the role of the european parliament, as co-legislator, in getting our response right cannot be understated. over recent years, the euro area’s architecture has evolved substantially. but as you know, some essential elements are still missing or are incomplete, hampering its ability to deliver its full potential for euro area citizens. this is why the ecb has been advocating and will continue to make the case for a more complete emu: economic and monetary union. very quickly, i will remind you of what i mean by that. it is a full banking union underpinned by a common deposit insurance scheme; it’s a true capital markets union that channels investment to innovative and productive uses; and it is a central stabilisation function as a common line of defence in case and when we have shocks. a more resilient economic and monetary union with these elements would not just help to protect our living standards from adverse domestic and global developments. it would also support europe’s influence in the world, including by making the euro more attractive worldwide. let me close by highlighting the joint nature of the challenges. what i have discussed will require all parties to do their bit to enable europe to perform at its best for all of its citizens. this includes the ecb, which within its mandate is ready to play its part. as i said at the beginning, the universal nature of these challenges also underscores the need for continued dialogue between the ecb and the european parliament. in this spirit, i am very much looking forward to the exchange that we will have during the rest of this afternoon.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s a pleasure to be here today to discuss with you and with christine lagarde, president of the european central bank (ecb), the very timely report on the ecb annual report. by a coincidence of the calendar, the european central bank launched a review of its monetary policy strategy on 23 january, the day of adoption of the report at committee level. i would like to thank the rapporteur, costas mavrides, and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for their work. the commission largely shares the general lines of the report. we concur with the view that the ecb’s statutory independence in the conduct of monetary policy is crucial to the objective of safeguarding price stability. today’s debate reinforces this independence in that it bridges political independence and democratic accountability. like the report, the commission considers that monetary policy alone, which is an ecb competence, is not sufficient to achieve sustainable growth and price stability. the euro area economy should also be supported by a mix of growth—friendly structural reforms and by appropriately-differentiated fiscal policy. this is all the more important as the european economy, while continuing to expand, has entered a period of more subdued growth. this is linked to the less-supportive external environment, ongoing structural shifts and high uncertainty, for instance regarding trade policies. let me make specific reference to a couple of points in the report that are relevant to the commission’s political agenda. first, the commission has made the transition to a climate—neutral economy a priority with the european green deal. the european green deal will make consistent use of several policy levers: regulation and standardisation, investment and innovation, national reforms, dialogue with social partners and international cooperation. in the context of the european green deal, we agree with the ecb’s conclusion that climate—change—related financial stability risks hold the potential to become systemic for the euro area, in particular if markets are not pricing these risks correctly. we will soon launch a consultation on the next steps on the sustainable finance agenda. our aim is to develop a renewed sustainable finance strategy by early autumn which, among other things, will aim to improve the way climate and environmental risks are managed and integrated into the financial system. we will also establish the eu green bond standard and explore how it can increase public and private finance for sustainable investments. the review of our own economic governance framework will, just like the ecb strategic review, look into the effectiveness of our rules in delivering on its key objectives. debt sustainability remains important, as financial stability is a pre-condition for growth and job creation. but we will also encourage broad debate on the framework in order to make it more efficient. second, we welcome the call for swift completion of the capital markets union and the banking union, including setting up a european deposit insurance scheme. a strong monetary union is key to fostering the international role of the euro. in this respect, we welcome parliament’s encouragement to work with the ecb and all relevant stakeholders on those projects. the commission has started technical work on crisis management and insolvency law. this is an important avenue to be further considered to complete our crisis management framework and help make progress towards a steady—state banking union. third, i would like to underline the importance of our work on payments and crypto-assets. i would like to thank the ecb for their crucial work on payment infrastructure. this is essential to make instant payments in europe a reality. i also welcome that the ecb and other central banks are looking at the potential of central bank digital currency and are engaging with european payment actors to bring about faster, more efficient and cheaper payments. i have no doubt that today’s debate will be very fruitful, and i trust that you will confirm the constructive engagement that has developed between the european parliament and the ecb over the past years.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for coming to us today for the first time in your capacity as president of the european central bank. you are also fulfilling a promise you made to us in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, not only to take care of monetary stability, which is your mandate, but also to have an intensive dialogue with the public, and this via this sounding board of the european parliament. thank you very much. the commission's predecessor, who has also been a regular guest here, certainly helped to buy time with his monetary policy measures, which the member states should have used to prepare for more difficult times. you have now announced that you will present and discuss a new monetary policy strategy, and i hope that at the stage where this discussion is taking place within the central bank, monetary policy decisions are not put on hold, but you are still able to react in the present, because your own financial stability report is now pointing out a number of problems that we are dealing with because of this long period of low interest rates that we are facing. i'm very grateful to you for bringing up the topic of thinking about having your own digital currency today. i am quite frank with you: we in the epp would prefer a digital currency from the ecb to one from facebook, and in that sense you have our support.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam president, mr vice-president, first of all i would like to thank you for the new prisms, the new airs that the president of the ecb has brought to this house and to the european central bank. but i would like to stress that we are still far from fulfilling the institution's mandate - that, moreover, the monetary aggregates, the evolution of credit, do not point towards rapid fulfillment of the objective of placing inflation close to 2%, and therefore, within the institution's independence, i would like to stress the need for new instruments, new policies, in order to be able to place inflation close to its target. on the other hand, i would also like to recommend or ask you to ask for sincere support from the tax side to help you meet the inflation target. and i welcome the start of this strategic review, which should be more than a touch-up of the inflation index methodology, to introduce new objectives, new instruments, new communication - as you wish - into the work of the ecb.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i’d like to thank mr mavrides, the rapporteur, for working and putting together all the different opinions of the different groups, and putting that into a future vision for the ecb and for us here, at parliament. let me highlight a couple points in addition to what was already said. madame lagarde, when we asked you about the central bank digital currencies at the econ hearing, you responded that we need to ‘rush slowly’ and welcome you elaborating on that here. mr dombrovskis also concurred. that means that the importance of this project is well understood, and i think that it will be supported by parliament here. the second point i would like to mention is probably the need to renew discussion on the financial sector supervision architecture. it remains very fragmented in the european union with four models or so being used, and the mandates of the european institutions either overlapping or not very clear. if we are very serious about the banking union, capital markets union, etc., if we want the financial sector – which is a significant part of the economic infrastructure – to work for people, we need to revitalise discussion on that. i would welcome your participation in that discussion too. the european commission, and we at the european parliament, would be ready to contribute to revitalising that discussion.
mr president, anti-semitism is a diagnosis of a serious disease in society. however, finding the right treatment requires knowing the causes. they are internal and external. the internal ones are clear. they are like mutating viruses, becoming active in the dirty environment of angry nationalism. we must root them out. one of the external causes wasn’t mentioned today. it comes from the double-faced kremlin policy against europe. on the one hand, they attack some countries for being anti-semitic and pretend to fight nazism, but on the other hand, they finance nationalistic parties in the eu. putin’s suggestion for permanent security council members to discuss threats of anti-semitism in the un is fake, because russia itself is reviving totalitarian stalinism based on hatred. the fight against anti-semitism should be seen in the context of the fight against rehabilitation of all totalitarian regimes.
on behalf of the ppe group i'm sorry, madam president, but i have to go. during world war i, schweich, a decorated soldier, had a successful business selling stolen dogs. a hundred years later, we're modern, and pets are bought online, but not always with the same sense of responsibility and risk. we understand the threat of zoonotic diseases, but we're not going to name the most well-known examples of them, even though the coronavirus is still being mentioned these days. vaccines can control rabies, but the illegal pet trade increases the risk of infection. rabies appears to have been eradicated in lithuania and the netherlands, and has been detected again in the netherlands. vaccinate vaccinated animals that are too young. another threat is the transport of animals in unsuitable conditions for illegal breeding. even a legally acquired pet is treated as a commodity, since it is a living creature. so we're talking about health, and we're talking about animal welfare, and we're talking about consumer protection. mandatory european labelling of cats and dogs would be a solution. and not in the first context, in this room, we have to talk about the lack of research. i would also support stronger sanctions for all levels of authorities that ignore this illegal business.
i'm not going to let you do that. gender equality is not only a foundation of society but also a necessary tool for development, promotion and poverty reduction. we recommend that the council work more actively towards gender equality and the fight against all forms of discrimination, and that it increase its efforts to close the gender pay and pension gap and to ensure equal pay. it also promotes the education of girls and women, especially in areas where they are clearly under-represented. i strongly condemn all forms of violence against women and girls, including trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation, forced marriage, child marriage, female genital mutilation and the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war.
in writing. i agree with the documents drawn up. the eu, like the rest of the world, is facing a challenge unlike any other in our generation. it will have long-term security implications. one of the most important factors is people's trust in the eu, and we see the external dissemination of disinformation. i call on the commission to ensure that eu citizens are better and more regularly informed about important decisions.
mr president, really, of course, we are condemning what chinese authorities are doing against democracy and against chinese international obligations in hong kong. we are standing together with the hong kong people in defence of their rights and their autonomy. of course, you should place strong pressure on beijing next week, but we can see some paradoxes in the actions of the chinese authorities. the attempts to destroy the democracy of hong kong brings clear evidence that they are afraid of that small island of democracy. usually weak authorities are showing that they are afraid, and it reminds me of how the soviet union collapsed. the soviet union had weak authority and they were afraid of democracy. chinese people are really clever people, and prudent people, and china deserves to be allowed into global leadership, but they need to learn now not to be afraid of democracy, and they need to learn democracy from hong kong and taiwan.
mr president, the situation in the southern eu neighbourhood is dangerous. it has to be seen in a wider context, not just in relation to turkey. there are a lot of talks about eu strategic autonomy in the security area. the processes that have been developing in the mediterranean for several years now confirm that we have to act, not only talk. when the eu is not acting, others do – in this case, turkey and russia. even more so, as different eu member states support different sides of the conflict in libya. where is the eu strategy here? today we have to speak about the capability of the eu to act near its borders, to act in coordination with nato. this would be the kind of eu strategic autonomy in which our voters could believe. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, high representative, after 26 years of the authoritarian rule of lukashenko, the belarusian people are loudly demanding real change in their country, and it can happen on the 9th august presidential elections. it’s a different situation today than it was before. opinion polls are showing that more than 50% of belarusians want real change and only a minority want lukashenko to stay. the mood of the people of belarus reminds me of our baltic singing revolution of the 1990s. belarusian rock bands are coming out with popular songs against the regime. people of the cultural elite are bravely coming out on youtube with their anti-regime statements. bloggers are creating a real online network of resistance. and all of them are persecuted by the regime. lukashenko’s main competitors, babaryko and tikhanovskiy, are in prison. during the last months the list of internationally-recognised political prisoners increased to 30, including famous opposition leaders like pavel sieviaryniec. today we need to send three clear and loud messages. the first to the citizens of belarus: we are in solidarity with you in your demand for change and we shall defend your right to decide on the change in your country to become a normal a european democratic country. second, a clear message to lukashenko and his nomenclatura: if, on 14 july next week, opposition candidates are not registered by the authorities, if political prisoners and candidates are not released from prison, and if the people on the street are threatened and persecuted, there will be sanctions – personal sanctions. and third, a message to ourselves: we need to stand up and to defend the rights of our neighbours.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, the year 2020 will be remembered in the history of the world as a year of extraordinary change, the year of covid-19. but on the subject we are discussing now, the political situation in belarus, unfortunately there is no change. lukashenko, who is running for a sixth term, has once again brutally eliminated all potential rivals before the election. and the images of peaceful rallies, demonstrations, ended again with the emergence of power structures, people being beaten and imprisoned. the european union must therefore continue to apply and strengthen targeted sanctions against entities and individuals involved in the repression of peaceful people. but there's one thing you can't do. you can't restrict the contact of ordinary people. the european union must do the opposite. to facilitate the entry of belarusians into the countries of the european union, especially for scientific, cultural purposes, since only direct contacts show ordinary belarusians a different possible model of the state and the fact that the european union will not forget them.
mr president, i would like to say to mr vice-president of the commission that we stand together with the belarusian people. the belarusian people in their majority are saying to lukashenko, ‘get out!’ putin is standing together with lukashenko and that is why lukashenko continues with the violence. from our side, it is not enough only to speak words of solidarity and concern. the eu needs to act and the european parliament needs to take leadership. what do we need to do? first, to recognise sviatlana tsikhanouskaya and the coordination council as the legitimate representatives of the people of belarus and invite them to the european parliament. second, to denounce lukashenko as a criminal usurper if he does not resign when his term in office is over. third, to start an international investigation into omon war crimes and to demand that all those who participating in omon pogroms be included in the eu sanctions list. fourth, to start to prepare a new marshall plan for assistance to democratic belarus. and fifth, to award the sakharov prize to the brave women and men of belarus. let’s do it! (the speaker concluded in belarusian: ‘zhiv’e bielarus!’)
mr president, why belarus matters to all of the eu, not only to its neighbours is because people in belarus are fighting for a better europe as a whole – for a europe without dictators. the people of belarus will not give up and they are heroes of europe because they fight for a european way of life. the people of belarus can change the european continent because they can change not only belarus but russia as well, giving example for russians. that’s why putin is afraid of a belarussian revolution and supports the bloody dictator, lukashenko. i call on the eu member states to fundamentally change their policy from russia first to ukraine, georgia, moldova, belarus first. this is the only way to help russia change and cease being a state that uses chemical weapons against the kremlin’s critics. (the speaker spoke in belarusian) ‘zhiv’e bielarus!’ president—elect sviatlana for the sakharov prize! eu stay brave.
mr president, there is no need to explain what a brutal crime was executed against alexei navalny, the leader of the political opposition in russia. novichok, regular attempts to kill opposition leaders, and permanent support to all dictators, from maduro to lukashenko – these are the main features of kremlin policies. that is why today we need to speak not only about the navalny case. we need to speak about our policy towards russia – or, more precisely, towards putin. i have a dream that russia can be different. the democratic revolution in belarus makes this dream much more realistic. alexei navalny is fighting for this dream to become a reality, and the eu needs to stand together with the people of russia, who want to live in a democracy. let’s stop our attempts to build an unconditional friendship with putin, who is stealing that dream, not only from the russian people. the poisoning of navalny is a wake-up call to all of us! we need to make an in-depth review of our strategy towards russia: democracy in russia should be our priority, not business as usual of the nord stream 2 type.
mr president, i will start by saying that germany has played a decisive role by taking navalny to a safe environment, by saving navalny’s life and by establishing that this was indeed a military chemical weapon attack. but we need another important step: to withdraw from the nord stream 2 project. why? because with the money for gas, the kremlin regime is able to develop such chemical weapons as novichok and to finance such operations as the poisoning of alexei navalny. the eu countries cannot be complicit. putin is guilty of this and a series of other murders. the russian authorities cannot be trusted with an investigation. the eu must lead the initiative for an international investigation into the poisoning of navalny and into the breach of russia’s international commitments by using chemical weapons.
mr president, mr vice-president, as a co-chair of euronest, i would like to make just two comments. first of all, i would like to appeal to our friends, the armenians and the azerbaijanis: you are fighting and killing not only children, you are killing your own future, the future of your children and grandchildren. the war is a sign of weakness of leadership, not of their strength. compromise and peace demand much more political courage. and second, i would like to appeal to colleagues inside this house and inside of the eu. in this house we like to talk about eu strategic autonomy but our strategic autonomy starts from our strategic responsibility and the eu till now was failing, from that point of view, especially on this conflict. for almost 30 years, the conflict in nagorno-karabakh is here and in the eu we have only our permanent statements of our concern. that is not working. my rhetorical question, first of all to the vice-president: can we learn from the recent actions of the us administration on how to implement strategic responsibility? recently, the us administration managed to resolve longstanding conflicts between serbia and kosovo on the european continent and between israel and several arab countries in the middle east. the american model is very simple: agreement on peace brings huge economic benefits. mr vice-president, let’s start to be really strategically responsible.
mr president, we need effective leadership to solve conflict. there are two ways to achieving peace over nagorno karabakh. there are two ways to achieving peace over nagorno karabakh: the first way, leaders of azerbaijan and armenia stop being hostages to this problem and find compromise themselves. however, there are very little chances this may happen unfortunately. the second path, the democratic powers usa and eu both take over this responsibility. they bring both parties to the negotiating table by proposing clear, tailor-made political and economic plan for the future. if normalisation agreements were possible with serbia and kosovo, it is also possible with armenia and azerbaijan. we often speak about eu strategic autonomy, i support colleagues. this term will become meaningful only if it comes with eu strategic responsibility. so my question today, is the eu ready to take responsibility for peace in its neighbourhood, be it south or east?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with what the honourable member said a moment ago. since the start of the pandemic, the ecb has bought €1.35 trillion of government bonds through its emergency purchase programmes; the most indebted countries paid this money with high interest rates. yet at the same time the ecb has financed private banks with €1.6 trillion through the tl and tro programmes, which have been paid to private banks at practically negative rates, thus greatly favouring private banks. yet these banks, as always happens in crises, have filled their bellies but have not poured this money into the real economy. that's the point, that's what happens during all crises: the banks are getting richer and richer and the citizens are getting poorer and poorer. this mechanism cannot work: it is an unsustainable mechanism and, as soon as citizens realize that with crypto-currencies they can free themselves from the banking sector and its speculation once and for all, they will do so without hesitation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the corona crisis has put the equity capital of many european companies to a severe test. at the same time, london will become the most liquid financial centre in europe outside the european union. it is far from clear that access to this liquidity pool will be possible in the future without further ado. this means that the capital markets union project is more urgently needed than ever. unfortunately, progress in recent years has been made in the area of triple steps rather than in the area of big leaps. the european parliament has clearly indicated in its own-initiative report - for which i would like to express my thanks - where the construction sites are located. the commission must now tackle these problems, not with new action plans but with action. we have enough plans; we need the activities now. the major stumbling blocks are well known: this is tax law and this is insolvency law. both of these things must be addressed, and i am very sorry that the council is not here. i was glad to receive a certificate from the council representative earlier, and i would like to have it now. we need the member states. and if the member states do not play their part, the capital markets union will always remain a torso. that is why i am calling on the experts' meeting which is now taking place between the council and the commission to decide on activities and not just action plans.
madam president, the truth is that we have very little time to discuss two reports that are very relevant to the future of the legislature. first, the report on the capital markets union, a good report. but our group, committed to the consolidation of capital markets, is also committed to common regulation and supervision, something we do not yet have and which, scandal after scandal, the european citizens are demanding of us. report on digital finance: a new environment where support and backing for innovation needs to be combined with the need for control, the need for very strict regulation also to prevent abuse, fraud or fraudulent uses. in any event, in this report, i would like to welcome at this point the publication of the proposal by the european central bank to start work on the issuance of a digital euro. because if there are to be digital currencies, there must be public ones, and the monopoly of the european central bank must be guaranteed.
madam president, agustin carstens, director-general of the bank of international settlements, called bitcoin a combination of ponzi scheme, financial bubble and environmental disaster. i tend to agree with him, and would add that bitcoin and thousands, now thousands, of other so-called crypto assets are also a ripe environment and vehicle for financial crime, including money laundering. therefore, these assets, basically, have no sustainable value for society and, because of that, are prohibited in a number of jurisdictions. some of them, some of us, call that financial innovation. that would be a fine thing. another financial innovation, global stablecoins, has even more serious and wider reaching negative implications, especially regarding financial stability, privacy and data protection risks, monetary policy transmission and especially monetary sovereignty, as was mentioned here already. as a response to that, the third financial innovation, central bank digital currencies, were initiated and this should be studied and debated thoroughly here at the european parliament and other institutions, and we will certainly do that. if constructed and implemented properly, a digital euro could help deal with the remaining payment and financial inclusion issue, but more importantly, it could increase financial stability on our fragmented financial supervision landscape and boost the role of the euro on the global scene. the report on crypto assets is a step forward in order to balance somewhat unwarranted enthusiasm at the european commission in the fintech area.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to say that the epp fully supports this report on a european parliament recommendation prepared by petras auštrevičius, because we fully support the belarusian people in their democratic revolution, under the leadership of sviatlana tsikhanouskaya and the coordination council. as we know, the people of belarus have, for 10 weeks in a row, been continuing their protests. the european parliament, along with all other eu institutions, has until now shown clear and very dynamic political leadership in support of the belarusian people. indeed, parliament president david sassoli was the first to invite sviatlana tsikhanouskaya to visit brussels. this was a very important visit, which was followed by other high-level meetings. today, we need to ask ourselves: what else can we do, in practical terms, as parliament, as members of this house? i have three brief ideas. first, without further delay, by decision of the leadership of parliament, let’s create a high-level belarusian mission of former presidents and prime ministers, as was done with the kwaśniewski-cox mission to ukraine. in this way, we can consolidate our position within the eu and increase pressure not only on lukashenko, but also on putin. second, let’s join our efforts with sviatlana tsikhanouskaya’s headquarters and let’s assist them in establishing information centres here in brussels, and maybe later on in other capitals. third, together with proper pro-democracy foundations, let’s establish a special centre for the international investigation of omon crimes, with a mandate to collect evidence and assist with legal expertise at the start of individual criminal cases. those are just a few ideas of what we can do. we, and the whole eu, can do much more! let’s continue to stand together with the people of belarus, and zhiv’e bielarus!
mr president, our passports are not for sale. i come from a country where hundreds of thousands of people have died because of their right to be a citizen of their country and today, a citizen of the eu. eu citizenship is about a protection of the european way of life. it is about the security of our people, about our defence. it is about the duties of citizens. we must stop money launderers and other criminals that abuse the existing system. we must stop third countries from exploiting the system for their influence on operations. therefore, all eu member states must end all existing ‘citizenship by investment’ or ‘residency by investment’ schemes as soon as possible. i would also like to use the opportunity and to draw the commission’s attention to a security loophole in the european visa-issuance system which enables third-country nationals with hostile intentions to enter the eu. their abuse is possible partly due to their continued acceptance of non-biometric passports for travellers. i invite the eu to take immediate action to address this security gap in the european visa-issuance system.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it’s important that today we are discussing the situation in belarus, but we need urgent actions today, not only urgency resolutions. the lukashenko regime implements against the people of belarus what we need to call ‘internal terrorism’: six people killed, including the last one – raman bandarenka, hundreds of political prisoners, almost 30 000 protesters put in jail during the first three months after election day. what do we need to do with the lukashenko regime? the same that we did with other terrorist regimes – tough, deep economic sanctions to private and state-owned companies, which are important to the lukashenko regime, sanctions on swift operations, clear road to international tribunal, etc. punishment with sanctions should be targeted not only to terrorist regime itself, but also to ‘terrorism supporters’. kremlin needs to know that if they will continue to support the lukashenko terrorist regime, sanctions will hit also the kremlin. zyvie belarus!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european union has a huge transformative power to influence in a positive way developments towards democracy, stability and prosperity in its neighbourhood. this is the eu enlargement and integration promise. that is what we in the baltic states faced 20 years ago, and we are grateful. now it is time for the western balkans. the eastern partnership countries deserve the same, maybe a little bit later. it’s a pity that from the eu side we are still not able to promise a more clear vision of eastern partnership integration, and that creates unnecessary frustrations and a loss of hopes and dreams in those countries. but what we can do is to show where, in which place, the eastern partnership countries are on their road towards integration. let’s start to produce regular evaluation and benchmarking reports; let’s compare not only the eastern partnership countries among themselves, let’s compare eastern partnership and western balkan countries on their path towards integration. comparison will bring a sense of progress and perspective and also dynamism of competition. that is what is very much needed for the eastern partnership region.
