in writing. – three years after trump’s stepping into office, us foreign policy is starting to look less bound to a coherent strategy and more like a victim of erratic impulses. his latest reckless actions in the middle east are the pinnacle of a long series of provocations starting with us withdrawal from the nuclear deal in 2018. without a doubt, no tears should be shed for general soleimani, whose imprints remain all over conflict zones in the middle east. yet the dangerous escalation, brought by soleimani’s assassination in violation of international law, pushed the region in a spiral of tragic events and led to hundredths of innocent victims. instead of giving hope to moderation and normalisation, trump’s ‘fire and fury’ strategy plays into the hands of emboldened military leaders and extreme hardliners. it’s no wonder they are now even more convinced in the need of a nuclear deterrent. we must now stand united in support of eu high representative borrell’s efforts to revert all parties to dialogue, calm and restraint and to harness the nuclear deal. for the eu, the time for reflection for bigger strategic autonomy has come. dialogue and diplomacy will always be europe’s ways, and not tweets and bombs.
the next item is the report by isabel wiseler-lima, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union’s policy on the matter – annual report 2018 (2019/2125(ini)) (a9—0051/2019).
i'm the reporter. madam president, the european parliament has a responsibility to speak with a strong, clear and, above all, united voice when it comes to human rights. i have therefore tried throughout the negotiations to find consensus so that we could put to the vote today a report which would be the expression of all our struggles, all our convictions and which would be supported by a very large majority. this united voice is not an end in itself but allows us, in a context where we aspire to universality, to affirm our deep common respect for democracy and human rights. human dignity, the affirmation of it, must always and again in our european parliament transcend the boundaries of political groups, be a shared value which allows us to be credible when we always and again demand respect for human rights in our international relations. the european voice, together with other democratic voices from around the world, is more than necessary in view of the contents of the report on the state of democracy and human rights in the world. the report expresses its deep concern at the attacks on democracy and the rule of law. one point of particular concern to me is the rise of authoritarianism as a political project. however, this is not a case of excessive pessimism, and the report also welcomes the fact that in a number of countries peace and democratization processes are being implemented, as well as constitutional and judicial reforms. i would also like to stress that civil society and its commitment to democracy and human rights are now, much more than in the past, encouragingly visible. we support those who raise their voices to defend democratic values. however, one particular dark spot remains for humanity: the scourge of conflict and military attacks, aimed in particular at ethnic cleansing, continues to kill civilians and cause mass displacement. often these places of extreme violence and lawlessness give way to the expression of inhumanity into which men can fall. these places become a place where cruelty and horror are experienced on a daily basis. we are in the unspeakable. each of us, all of us, have a human obligation to denounce this loudly and as members of this parliament we have a political obligation to provoke action against this human misery. the report also highlights the issue of the rights of indigenous peoples, who are often violated, even though national and international laws protect them. it underlines the importance of advancing gender equality and the rights of women and girls worldwide. women and children are in fragile environments and are the most likely to be victims of violence, the most exposed to abuse and exploitation. the report pays particular attention to freedom of speech and expression and media pluralism, which are at the heart of genuinely democratic societies. it deplores the injustice against human rights defenders, including academics, journalists and politicians. it denounces the murders committed, the death penalty, the persecution and arbitrary imprisonment. the report stresses that trade and human rights can and should be mutually reinforcing and stresses the responsibility of business. it fully supports human rights dialogues with third countries in the promotion and protection of human rights. last but not least, it stresses that the right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief must be guaranteed worldwide and safeguarded unconditionally. i would like to conclude by thanking all the fictitious rapporteurs and the teams for the spirit in which they have worked.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, human rights is an endless issue. so many questions. let me start by answering a very concrete question about our special envoy for freedom of belief: yes, we have a special envoy – ján figeľ. president juncker created the function and appointed ján figeľ in may 2016. he supports implementation of the european union guidelines on promoting and protection of freedom of belief, as the name of his mandate says. he is engaged in visiting countries where the freedom of belief is at risk, engaging with national authorities and institutions, human rights organisations and religious leaders and communities. he participates in dialogue with them and promotes respect for diversity. it is a little bit of a reiteration – i’m saying the same thing in different ways – but that is what he’s doing, and he also serves as special adviser to the commissioner for development cooperation. i cannot remember who asked the question – they are no longer here – but this is the answer i can provide to him: i will review the job, the mandate, of this special envoy and see how we can improve it, and what is the justification of this job. the subject requires for sure for someone to take care of it, but i will learn more about it; to tell the truth, i was not aware of the existence of this special envoy for the protection of freedom and belief. maybe next time i will be able to give more information. the other big issue that has been raised is business and human rights. it is a big issue for sure, and someone has been saying that western consumers are very happy to consume cheaper goods without paying a lot of attention to the way these lower costs have been obtained. why is it cheaper? is the production procedure more efficient, or is it because the human rights of the workers are not respected as we require them to be respected in our economic system? the european union is maybe the most engaged organisation in the world on this issue – to address human rights abuses connected to the activities of business entities. we have binding schemes in areas such as trade in diamonds and other conflict minerals, export controls on torture goods, and schemes against trade in lethal injections and the work of the child. i can give you examples of what we have been doing: we have some agreements with asia-pacific for close cooperation on business and human rights in asia, where we have been investing more than eur 5 million on this programme, and we have a similar project ongoing in latin america. but we need to do more. we need to build up the necessary consensus. i don’t have a mandate to work more on that, so i count on the right of initiative of parliament – you have it, use it – to help me in this task, in which i am very interested. you have capacities: use these capacities, because, as you know, i am only the representative of a set of people who very often don’t agree on every issue. in order to have a mandate, it would be very useful if parliament used its right of initiative in order to build a european union binding treaty. i think this is a very important issue – maybe the most important one worldwide. what other issues have been pointed out by you? many of them. due diligence legislation: yes, we have called for further eu due diligence legislation during the previous mandate, and some member states such as france and netherlands have adopted their own national legislation, but others have not done this. once again, when you deal with a subject which is highly divisive, and when you don’t have an agreement among member states, it is difficult to advance in something even if you are strongly convinced that this is needed. here again, we can build an alliance between parliament and the high representative in order to push things that i, myself, do not have enough capacity to develop. i think this part-session could be a good start to our work together in order to advance human rights defence all over the world.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to once again speak for those who have spoken today, as i have tried to do in this report. i would just like to highlight some of the difficulties that have been raised tonight, including multilateralism, human rights defenders in difficulty - very important because they are the pillars for this to move forward - lgbti people, who are facing enormous difficulties in some countries, violence against women and girls, production chains that have been named and are a problem, companies that have their share of responsibility, forced marriages. mr borrell, you have named the tools: we have the observer missions, we have your action, that of a representative for human rights and for religious freedom. you told us what you're asking us. there are certain things that have come up again and again in all these negotiations while we were working on this report: those who are guilty in the field of human rights must not go unpunished, they must be prosecuted, there must be a follow-up. we must do everything we can to do that. we must also insist on multilateralism, insist that trade is done in a way that we can be proud of. in this sense, i would like to talk about the monitoring mechanism that should be in place when we talk about trade, because asking for certain things to be done is one thing, but monitoring is another. i still hope that real progress will be made in the future on the state of democracy and human rights in the world and that we will be able, through our positions, you through your positions or through your action and us through our positions here in the european parliament, to help to accelerate this progress.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, colleague, of course, the subject we are discussing is very serious, it is tragic, we have children, adults, but you have reached a very important point. you said that no state alone can solve the migration problem, and you said one more thing: that we have, we are facing illegal migration. what do you think we should do to stop illegal immigration, because it actually complicates things and it makes it so that those who would be legal can't have the right conditions?
the commissioner, the situation in the island structures is inhumane. in 2019, 73,000 refugees and migrants arrived in greece, a 100% increase compared to 2018. over 40,000 are trapped on the islands, and in many cases they make up over a quarter of the local population, causing social reactions. let's be honest with each other. the eu-turkey joint declaration has failed. after three years of implementation, only 2,000 syrians have returned from greece to turkey, while more than 20,000 have left turkey for europe. so the one-on-one deal never worked. for some, european solidarity is just a money-making scheme. however, this is not enough. following the end of the relocation programme in march 2018, only two countries - portugal and france - agreed to a voluntary scheme. the commissioner, the revision of dublin iii should already have been completed on the basis of the european parliament's decisions. compromise on such a sensitive issue with countries that undermine solidarity will lead to a sham revision and should not be accepted, because it would be absurd for the greek far right to denounce you for lack of solidarity instead of blaming the polish far right, who are in the same political group, who do not want the real dublin revision.
we are in europe, in the 21st century, we are in the european union. i have the honour of being the rapporteur in this house on the report on the situation of human rights in the world. we are a union which defends the values of human dignity, also beyond its borders, and which makes many demands on its international partners, and i am proud of that. how can we claim the right to criticise the way other countries, on other continents, treat their migrants when in the european union there are islands where the situation of migrant children forces us to talk about a humanitarian crisis. i repeat, we are in europe, in the 21st century, and it is intolerable that the solidarity of all in the union should not be evident when children are wading in the mud and the cold. it is not only a greek problem, it is not only a problem of the countries around the mediterranean, it is our responsibility to ensure that these children have a decent life. we must find ways of guaranteeing this solidarity within the union, since it is obvious that it does not take place naturally and freely. solidarity within the union is a two-way street: you can only claim solidarity if you are ready to give it yourself: if you do not give, then you do not receive either. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i see absolutely no problem with that, quite the contrary. thank you, thank you.
madam president, i strongly object to the decision of the president of the european parliament, mr sassoli, to interpret rule 10 (3) of the rules of procedure, namely that members are obliged not to disturb the good order of the chamber and to refrain from inappropriate behaviour by displaying posters or signs as a prohibition on the use of our national flags in the chamber. the national flag is not a banner, the national flag is a symbol, this is my national flag, it cannot be just a banner, it cannot be banned. moreover, you allow your colleagues to sometimes display symbols that are, to put it mildly, controversial. therefore, madam chairman, i urge the council of presidents to reverse this shameful and controversial decision. now i'm leaving my flag here, and if anyone wants to move it or take it down, they'll have to do it by force. welcome to the club!
mr dzhambazki, i will not open the discussion on this topic. i just want you to read carefully the current rules, especially rule 10(3) where it is clearly mentioned that members shall not display any banners and, generally, there is an obligation to respect the dignity of this chamber. that is why the president decided to respect and follow this rule. that’s all i would like to say. mr dzhambazki, i will refer to the president on this issue but we will not discuss it today.
madam president, i would just like to request your attention for a few seconds on a matter relating also to parliamentary democracy, and also to relations between the european union and russia. the day before yesterday, we learned that a dutch mp who is very critical of the russian government, one of the driving forces behind the european magnitsky act, has been blacklisted, and had imposed an entry ban, like some other members of this house. i would request that this house stand in solidarity with other elected representatives and contact mr borrell and ask him to intervene with the russian authorities. (loud applause)
i will pass on this message to the president, ms in 't veld. there is another point of order from mr lagodinsky.
colleagues, i will just say that, according to the rules that we all have to respect, the decision on admissibility is a prerogative of the president.
madam president, it’s about the flags. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. britain may have left the eu, but it remains not only a close neighbour but preferably a loyal ally with whom we maintain close relations. parliament is clear: we want an ambitious deal with our british friends, not just on our future trade relations, but also on other matters where cooperation is to our mutual benefit. such a close relationship presupposes that the uk respects european social, labour and environmental standards. but let's be clear: we want a close, lasting relationship with the uk, its citizens, business and scientists, not necessarily with the current government. governments are temporary. the deal we're making has to last. so let us remain cool when the johnson government makes bizarre proposals which could lead to a no deal and aim to drive the european member states apart. we must now show firmness and make it clear to the johnson government that we want very close cooperation, but if the british government should still take the leap into the dark, then europe is ready for a no deal. the johnson government must be well aware that the eu is pulling together in solidarity.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, the free trade agreement and the investment protection agreement with vietnam are the most ambitious ever concluded with a developing country. the agreements will further reinforce our already-strong trade and investment ties, and they will also provide an additional opportunity to strengthen the cooperation established under other eu instruments, for example on illegal logging or iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing. the agreements will strengthen our presence in asia, following the ‘new generation agreements’ in force, such as those with korea, japan and singapore. they will constitute an additional stepping-stone towards our engagement with the asean region. the benefits of the agreements are many: preferential access to a vibrant economy of almost 100 million people; removal of non-tariff barriers for our exporters, which they currently face, for example, on cars, on wines, and spirits; harmonised sanitary and phytosanitary rules allowing for more predictable procedures; and removing access barriers for eu products. eu companies will have access for the first time to the vietnamese public procurement market, and there will be protection of the european geographical indications such as parmigiano-reggiano, champagne and rioja wines. we will also have improved access to the vietnamese market in services, such as finance, distribution, logistics or environmental services. the investment protection agreement, similar to agreements with singapore and canada, includes the modern and reformed investment protection framework with an investment court system for the resolution of investment disputes. however, our agreements will be on trade and investment, and i’m aware that the european parliament has put a strong emphasis on the trade and sustainable development chapter of the vietnam agreement. and i fully agree with this approach. it is encouraging to see the level of engagement by vietnam in order to prepare for the implementation of their commitments, with important progress made even before the agreements are in force at all. the pressure that has been exerted by the european union is bearing fruit, and i welcome this development. on labour issues, vietnam adopted a new labour code last november, which recognises the principle of freedom of association at enterprise level. the revised code also includes new provisions on collective bargaining in line with the ilo fundamental convention, which was recently ratified by vietnam. vietnam has now ratified 6 out of the 8 ilo conventions, and it has a clear plan to ratify the outstanding conventions by 2021 and 2023. work is also ongoing in vietnam to eradicate child labour, with encouraging preliminary results unveiled recently by the ilo, which is a significant reduction of more than 40% since the last survey of 2012. so these developments are remarkable. but nevertheless, the commission will scrutinise implementation to ensure that vietnam effectively pursues this ambitious labour reform agenda. vietnam has also started preparing the ground for the institutional structure that is foreseen under the free trade agreement, including the involvement of independent civil society organisations, such as domestic advisory groups. the human rights situation is certainly an area of concern in our relationship with vietnam, but i remain convinced that constructive channels of communication, including the annual human rights dialogue, is the way to voice our concerns and address these shortcomings. so madam president, i firmly believe that these agreements will create the best platform for further engagement and constructive dialogue with vietnam in all fields. on the other hand, our failure to ratify the deal would leave the european union with fewer options to pursue a reform agenda in vietnam and would undermine the credibility of the european union as a reliable partner.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments. i shall vote in favour of these two agreements with vietnam, because i am deeply convinced that they are an opportunity for both the vietnamese people and the europeans. from the point of view of human rights in vietnam, of course, we are extremely reluctant, but i am convinced that we must also take advantage of the openness created by the establishment of european companies and investments subject to european criteria and obligations. i think the worst thing that could happen would be for vietnam to be isolated. with this agreement, the vietnamese government commits itself to respecting fundamental rights and, above all, it accepts the monitoring of the application of the rules by a joint committee of the european and vietnamese parliaments. the agreement also provides, and this is a great victory, for the european commission to set up an independent complaints mechanism with regard to human rights. finally, vietnam proposed that the european parliament's human rights committee participate in the vietnam-eu dialogue on human rights. this is a first and allows parliament to be present at a negotiating table where it does not normally sit. let us use every opportunity to advance human rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in this crisis we express our solidarity with the chinese people and, in particular, with the people of wuhan. we mourn all the victims and we send our condolences to the families of the deceased. we declare our high esteem for the service of the chinese frontline medical workers under the very difficult circumstances and high risks, and i want to hail, in particular, the courage and the sacrifice of dr li wenliang and others. we welcome the fact that the eu and the member states have shown first responses in offering support to china. we must continue to provide assistance and cooperation wherever possible. this health crisis is not over. that is why we have to make sure that there is a strong and coordinated effort within the eu and, in particular, between the member states, and in that regard, i fully support what has been said previously by colleagues. international cooperation more generally is of paramount importance. this is why i want to explicitly emphasise that taiwan must be fully included in the who—led international efforts. lastly, there is a deep concern – and i am grateful to the commissioner that she mentioned it – about the increasing number of reports of anti—chinese or anti—asian xenophobia in some countries, including in the eu, in the context of this crisis. this is completely unacceptable. we want to show solidarity, not allow xenophobia and racism. and in that context, we also have to battle against fake news and fearmongering.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the coronavirus is less deadly than a normal flu, but the social alarm generated is infinitely greater. stereotypes and mismanagement of information are fueling discrimination against asian people, in yet another example of xenophobia and intolerance. the virus is not fought with racism, but by guaranteeing access to public, universal and free health systems, with decent living conditions. universal access to health care is a fundamental right, and we also use this debate to call for the reversal of austerity measures and cuts in public services that have attacked the universality and quality of health care in many parts of the world, but also here in europe. it is essential to remember that the management of this type of crisis must also strictly respect human rights. and finally, we demand that a zero tolerance approach be adopted to racist attacks against people of asian origin, because there is no worse virus than xenophobia.
madam president, as we know today, there are already more than 1 000 victims of coronavirus and more than 40 000 infected people. still today, taiwan is the only country with confirmed cases that has been excluded from the world health organisation (who) meetings. this not only creates a serious gap in the global health security system, but it also undermines taiwanese people’s fundamental human right to health. taiwan is the most important international hub in the western pacific, and the disease does not know borders. taiwan is the fourth country successfully isolating the sample of coronavirus. i’m sure that now is the time to work together and to use all the expertise that we can. i therefore ask you, dear colleagues, to support our common call on all the individuals blocking taiwan’s participation in the world health organisation. taiwan should be included in all who activities. we can beat this fearful disease only together with people who want to help.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to express my sympathy to those affected, and above all my condolences to the families of the victims. i too support what the commissioner said that we need to work together in europe. but if we look at the title of the debate, 'human rights', we must once again clearly underline that a blatant violation of freedom of expression has led to an aggravation of the crisis and that we also have a big problem: that a part of the world community, namely taiwan, is excluded from the coordination measures for ideological reasons. i think that should be an important message: ideology cannot be above health. this must now be clear to china as well.
madam president, if freedom of speech had been respected in wuhan, the coronavirus would have had a chance to be contained. li wenliang, that's the name of the doctor who warned about the risks of this virus back in december. now, what happened was that this doctor was summoned by the authorities, was forced to keep his secret, and was even forced to testify that he had disturbed public order and made false statements. if the authorities had put the same effort into scientifically checking the doctor's claims, we probably wouldn't be here today. transparency, and especially health, must prevail, as must common sense. let's allow taiwan, which is affected by the coronavirus, to participate in the who. li wenliang himself, who was infected with the coronavirus, died last week. he has become a hero to chinese netizens who link his name to a call for freedom of expression. images made around the coronavirus are deleted from the internet. people have been threatened and imprisoned for making them public. the truth has been hidden from the world. there have been dramatic impacts. all this is unacceptable and we must point the finger at it to prevent it in the future. i also want to thank all the medical and scientific staff who are working tirelessly. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, absolutely, mrs trillet-lenoir. i have to go to the hospital. at the end of the book, a sentence says that "the bacillus of the plague never dies" and that "you have to be very careful". camus was referring to the fact that freedom is something that must be safeguarded. he was referring to the black death, nazism, and the fact that we must always be vigilant and that fundamental freedoms are freedoms that we must always, always, preserve. thank you very much, i'm really glad you mentioned the plague.
mr president, commissioner šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, there are two issues in this crisis which can be seen as historic catalysts: the first is the way in which europe is dealing with the economic consequences of the crisis. the marshall plan, which president von der leyen referred to today, must be put into practice immediately. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the recovery bond we are voting on and proposing today must be combined with all the instruments available to enable our economies to become more liquid. only by overcoming fears and stereotypes, only by strengthening the presence of the european union can we stand by the citizens in this darkest hour. and in this darkest hour, countries like my homeland, greece, have shown that they have succeeded with discipline and strong government guidance from prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis. but now we need european support, european support which does not resemble a memorandum, which does not refer to troika groups and which shows real solidarity. the second challenge is the new development model, which we can move towards after the crisis. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important step towards the achievement of the objective of the directive. today, the orthodox experience golgotha, the day of the passion. it is our duty to lead our societies and our economies to the recovery they need, by learning lessons from this global crisis.
mr. president, we are experiencing a health crisis unprecedented in this generation. a crisis that will have devastating economic and social consequences. a crisis that has put us on the ropes, but also put us in front of the mirror. and many europeans have not liked what we have seen of ourselves. after some rather embarrassing discussions we have got the eurogroup to take the first step. now the european parliament, in an agreed resolution, is calling for a comprehensive and ambitious package from the council meeting next week. the message is clear: europe is not only risking its future, but probably its very survival, in dealing with this crisis. and they depend, their survival and their future, on our ability to put in place a genuine plan for the economic recovery of this continent. a recovery plan obviously with common debt, because we want a common future, which is how the future is built. a green, inclusive, sustainable recovery plan for a sustainable economy. as always, the biggest enemy is ourselves. the greatest enemy is the national egoism and arrogance we see in some member states in the council, which always ends up causing us all to act too late and with too little. many europeans are asking: if not now, when? to act with unity, solidarity and ambition. now that the world economy is collapsing, that europeans are being confined and there are tens of thousands of dead on the table, it is time to act with ambition for one of europe's greatest challenges.
mr president, overcoming a pandemic such as covid-19 means first and foremost controlling the disease, avoiding premature death, protecting the sick and their loved ones from pain. in this case, it also requires exceptional social measures, which are necessarily liberticidal. declaring a temporary state of emergency is a powerful tool that allows for the necessary flexibility. however, we must ensure that the rule of law and fundamental rights remain protected. this is why the commission must closely monitor the exceptional measures taken by the governments of the member states and intervene if there is a clear risk of deviation. the parliaments must be able to continue to exercise their functions of control and legislation. at the international level, this crisis is putting us in a stark light of our dependence on the supply of essential goods. we must ensure that in the future europe is self-sufficient in basic goods. this is the case with medicines and medical equipment, but it must also be the case with food and other things. for what room for manoeuvre does the european union have, for example, vis-à-vis china, when it depends on its supplies of masks? our criticisms of the cover-up, the early days of the virus, or china's opposition to taiwan's presence at who remain too muted. we must protect europe, not by closing in on ourselves but by creating the conditions to be strong at home, protect our infrastructure and our industries, and on the international stage, so that we can follow our convictions, show solidarity with the most exposed and vulnerable people around the world.
mr president, we are fortunate in europe to have exceptional protection of personal data. our data is only stored with our consent. but sometimes we can be very generous with our data and make it available to commercial companies, to social networks where we spread our travels, to applications that record our steps, the very rhythm of our heart. it's quite individual but it's a free choice for everyone. do we presume to have the right to forbid it? of course you didn't. so i'm having some difficulty understanding the fear that can be instilled in people who are willing to use a tracking app to better control the spread of covid-19. an application that is not used for commercial purposes, but for the common good, by public institutions. an application installed and used on a voluntary basis, requiring user consent at each step and complying with european legislation. where and when is individual freedom threatened? such an application, as one of the elements that allows me to provide some additional security to my family, my entourage and others, is almost a duty for the public authorities to make it available to citizens and to inform them as best as possible.
is there a dissenting speaker? i give the floor to the rapporteur.
rapporteur. – mr president, as the rapporteur, i must say that this agreement has been waiting for its approval for way too long. we all know how difficult the situation in the aviation sector is right now, so agreements such as this one will bring, first of all, legal certainty to the workers and will also help businesses and help protect passengers. we mustn’t forget about those either. all member states have already ratified it so i cannot say anything but state as a fact that all member states have already done it. i think that what we are doing is the last checkpoint and i must say that the european parliament mustn’t become an obstacle. we are always part of the solution, not part of the problem. so please save this agreement and keep it on the agenda.
thank you, mr. speaker. is there a dissenting speaker? no, there isn't. let's move on. as regards the three requests for the urgency procedure under rule 163, which will be voted on today at the first voting session, only the authors of the requests for the urgency procedure and one opposing speaker, as well as the chairmen or rapporteurs of the committees responsible, will be able to be heard. is there anyone in the house who would like to speak on the request from the econ committee?
mr president, i was requested by the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) to read out the following text concerning the urgent procedure: on 8 may, the commission adopted a proposal modifying the directive on administrative cooperation by deferring by three plus three months the deadlines imposed on financial institutions and tax advisers to comply with their obligations under the directive. the entry into application of this directive is currently on 1 july 2020. this proposal follows a consultation procedure. the council cannot adopt its position at unanimity without having received the ep position. the council processed this proposal very quickly with the coreper general approach agreed early in june. the secretary-general of the council has sent a letter to the president of the european parliament in which he kindly invites the european parliament to deliver its opinion by the end of june. the econ coordinators have therefore agreed to follow the urgent procedure under rule 163 for this file.
i give the floor to mr manon aubry for a statement contrary to the request of the econ committee.
is there anyone in the house who would like to speak on the request from the agri committee? i give the floor to mr waitz for a statement contrary to the request of the agri committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that it is time to support our farms in europe here in this crisis and in their loss of income. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, both the council and - i think - my own member state, austria, have decided against the disbursement of the emergency reserve. i suspect that this is because large firms would have received significantly less in relation to smaller firms. but i can only guess what the background is here. what remains is that we are using the money here now from the second pillar, that we are using the money that is in itself for climate action, for environmental protection and for supporting regional communities. we think that this is too short a step for the green group. but since the commission has made it clear that if we members of this house put forward amendments, this request or this proposal will be withdrawn, which would mean that our farmers will not receive any help from the european union, i would like to call on my group not to vote against this urgent procedure, despite our serious reservations.
is there anyone in the house who would like to speak on the afco committee's request? i give the floor to mr. wins.
thank you, mr. speaker. are there any counter-interventions? i'm not sure. (the order of business is as follows)
the agenda includes the discussion of statements by the council and the commission on anti-racism protests following the death of george floyd (2020/2685 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate, nor will there be any blue-card questions. i would like to thank mrs brnjac for her presence on behalf of the council.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for inviting the presidency to share its views on the crucial topic of racism. the brutal killing of george floyd was shocking and it has provoked a tide of emotions and protest, not only in the united states but around the world. i would like to start by using this forum to express, on behalf of the croatian presidency and of the council, my deepest condolences to the family and friends of george floyd. let me say loud and clear that we stand in solidarity with victims of racial discrimination across the world. black lives do matter and systematic racism and discrimination have no place in our society. the events that triggered the recent protests raised, first and foremost, the issue of police treatment of african-american people and, more broadly, their place in society. because of each country’s history and social and political context this situation cannot be transposed to europe one to one. equality, human dignity, respect for human rights, together with tolerance, gender equality and the prohibition of discrimination are founding values of the european union. among the tools we have to fight racism, the main one is the eu charter of fundamental rights, which protects citizens against any discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, ethnic origin and religion or belief. the racial equality directive, as the first new-generation equal treatment instrument extending legal protection against discrimination beyond the grounds of gender, is the key instrument at eu level. not only did it pave the way for extending protection to new grounds and fields, it changed the european human rights infrastructure forever by requiring all member states to designate national equality bodies to promote equal treatment. the presidency is strongly committed to fighting racism. therefore, it gives me great pleasure to announce the marking of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of this crucial legislative instrument, organised by the croatian presidency and in cooperation with the european network or equality bodies, the commission and the council on 29 june, the exact date of the adoption of the directive by the council. the eu has so far developed a robust legal framework, including specific legislation on combating intolerance and hatred, such as the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. in june 2016, the council invited member states to ensure the effective transposition and implementation of the framework decision and other relevant hate-crime laws at national level. in addition, it asked all member states to develop effective methods to report and ensure proper recording of hate crimes. in conclusions adopted in october 2017, the council also welcomed the measures coordinated by the commission’s high level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. all these countermeasures need to be accompanied by anti-racist education and youth work and, more precisely, the need to develop democratic resilience, tolerance and conflict-resolution skills in the learning process. to sum up, we have the tools, legislation, knowledge, education, counter-narratives, but also condemnation of any form of racially motivated violence, hate speech and discrimination. at the same time, however, we in europe must be vigilant in the face of a worrying increase in the number of manifestations of hate speech and racism affecting minorities. the fundamental rights agency report, ‘being black in the eu’, released in november 2018, revealed the unacceptable challenges black people still face in our countries. the inclusion of black people is hampered by several obstacles: discrimination against them during their job search, mismatch between individuals’ educational level and their current jobs and access to housing. we are therefore compelled to take such matters extremely seriously. it is our obligation to lead an uncompromising fight against racism in our union. the european union is deeply committed to fighting all forms of discrimination within its borders as well as in the world at large. in march 2019, the council adopted eu human rights guidelines on non—discrimination in external action. this provides guidance to enhance the effectiveness of eu human rights policy in combating discrimination on any grounds, including race, and to increase the visibility of awareness of eu values and action in combating discrimination in its external action. abuse of power has to be denounced and combated everywhere. societies which pride themselves on representing the rule of law, democratic principles, fundamental freedoms and human rights should set an example in this respect. all societies must remain vigilant against the excessive use of force and ensure that incidents such as the killing of mr floyd are addressed swiftly, effectively and in full respect of the rule of law and human rights. we trust in the ability of the american people to come together to heal as a nation and to address these important issues. racism is not just a problem in the united states, as i said, and as the protests in many european countries and across the world have shown. the responsibility for combating racism rests with all of us: politicians, teachers, civil servants, students, parents, policemen, citizens. with all of us.
president of the commission. – mr president, i do not know what it is to be black. i do not know what it is to be black, or a member of any minority, be it ethnic, religious or sexual, in the places i’ve lived. je n’ai jamais fait l’expérience d’être traitée différemment pour la seule raison de mon apparence. je ne sais pas ce que c’est que d’être traitée avec soupçon jour après jour dans la rue ou en faisant mes courses, à la recherche d’un emploi ou d’un nouveau logement, comme notre collègue nous l'a tout juste raconté. c'est incroyable! la plupart d’entre nous dans cette salle ne le savent pas, mais nous savons une chose: beaucoup de gens, eux, le savent et ils nous disent à pleine gorge que nous tolérons le racisme depuis beaucoup trop longtemps. cela doit cesser. mesdames et messieurs les députés, les gens qui manifestent dans nos rues, dans nos pays, des deux côtés de l’atlantique et dans le monde entier élèvent leur voix, désireux de se faire entendre. il est grand temps de faire plus qu’écouter, plus que condamner, il est temps de parler du racisme ouvertement et honnêtement et voilà pourquoi je tiens à vous remercier d’avoir inscrit ce point à l’ordre du jour de la session plénière et de l’avoir mis à la première place de votre session. honourable members, as a society, we need to confront reality. we relentlessly need to fight racism and discrimination: visible discrimination, of course, but also more subtle racism and discrimination – our unconscious biases. all sorts of racism and discrimination! in the justice system and law enforcement; in our labour market and the housing market; in education and healthcare; in politics and migration. we should join forces at all levels: european, national, regional, local, public and private, business and civil society, and each of us individually, as citizens, to build a europe that is more equal and more humane, more fair. and let me be very clear: in our union there is no place for racism or any kind of discrimination. this is for sure. (applause) and honourable members, together, we need to answer difficult questions: why do racism and discrimination endure in our societies? why are there political parties supporting xenophobia and racism that win elections? why are members of ethnic and religious minorities underrepresented in political, social and academic institutions – and overrepresented in poverty, illness and law-enforcement statistics? what can we do in the fields of education, employment, healthcare, housing and more, to build an open, fairer and more conscious society? what can we do so that our institutions better represent the diversity of our european societies? this is not the work of a sectoral policy, of a single person, or of a single commissioner. this is why i am here, as president of the european commission. i want to get to the bottom of these questions. next week, we will have a structured debate on racism in the college and let us look around here in this very chamber. the diversity of our society is not represented and i will be the first to admit things are not better in the college of commissioners or among the european commission staff. and this is why i say we need to talk about racism and we need to act. it is always possible to change direction if there is a will to do so. let me take one small example of a small step in the right direction that i witnessed when i was defence minister in my home country. at the time, in the german armed forces, a recruiting system had been in place for decades that always favoured the same. we had some excellent candidates who would bring valuable assets to our armed forces – sometimes rare assets, like speaking arabic or farsi – and yet, somehow, those assets were not valued. not at all. and in a mission abroad, such skills could save comrades’ lives. but at the time, the attitude was: ‘ah, but the system does not allow for this and we have never done this before.’ but then, analysis and reflection started and finally led the german armed forces to change the recruiting system and it was for the better of the german armed forces, it was for the better for society! it has now become a fairer system for those soldiers, so we can change if there is the political will behind it. there is a way to do it. we need to talk about racism with an open mind. the good news is: we do not start from scratch. in the european union, discrimination is prohibited at the highest possible legal level: i mean our treaty, our charter of fundamental rights, both on grounds of race and ethnic origin. we also have european laws against racism, ethnic discrimination and hate speech: our racial equality directive; our framework decision on combating forms of expressions of racism and xenophobia, to name just a few. we have cooperation tools involving experts from all member states, a high-level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance, and a european network of equality bodies. here again, to name just a few. and we have european funds. but we need to try harder. i am glad to live in a society that condemns racism. but we should not stop there. if we encounter it, we must sound the alarm and act immediately. and we must be aware that vigilance and awareness begin on a very small scale, with each and every one of us. awareness includes examining ourselves. awareness includes speaking up in cases of discrimination. awareness includes questioning privileges we may take for granted, which are anything but. the motto of our european union is: ‘united in diversity’. our task is to live up to these words, and to fulfil their meaning, and this is why i am looking forward to listening to you for a better europe. united in diversity. unie dans la diversité. in vielfalt geeint.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, rise up, revolt, reject with all your strength, with your mind, heart and guts, any form of racism. that is how i feel, but i also believe that this is our duty as members of this house. that is why it was so important to have a common text to speak with one loud and strong voice about what is essential. our rejection and absolute condemnation of racism, our solidarity with all those who suffer and are discriminated against, is a strong message from the european parliament. the violent death of george floyd has reignited the need to affirm the rejection of racism and the rejection of police abuse of force around the world. this movement of all colors and bringing together so many young people gives hope for the future. but i would also like to express my admiration for all those other police officers who do their jobs in an exemplary way and for whom being a policeman is not just a job but a true vocation. as for our history, we are certainly not going to rewrite it and if we can be proud of many aspects, we cannot as human beings, no, we cannot but also be ashamed. this shame is evident when we think of the concentration camps of world war ii. it must be equally obvious when it comes to slave ships. i believe we can be proud of the values on which our european union is founded, of the rules we have set for ourselves today and for a better future. it is also necessary that day-to-day life should be in harmony with this, that we should make every effort to implement a policy which will give everyone, without any discrimination, equal opportunities and eradicate racism.
madam president, nassim nicholas taleb, a lebanese—american writer, describes in his books the asymmetries in our daily lives. he recalls that violent revolutions with good intentions in order to change dictatorship have sadly resulted in today’s cases of active slave markets, such as in libya, and the persecution of innocent minorities like the yazidis and christians in the middle east. all minorities who did not have a police or state force supporting their rights had to pay the price for changing systems that resulted in uncertainty. we have seen similar cases after wars and revolutions when totalitarian ideology replaced the menace of the other and persecuted those who did not fit in and obey, sadly, in my part of the world. persecution led to the slaughter and suffering of thousands of people. sadly, the brutal killing of george floyd spoilt the american dream that we had and we witnessed this with our own eyes via modern technologies. this woke us up and we understood that similar cases need a quota for every group, religion and member of society in order for everybody to feel equal and not like second-class citizens. for many years, we have tried to explain this to our partners outside europe. we need to export the european way of thinking and show that the eu has the best model as a peace project in the last 70 years. so let us really export the european model to the whole world and try to be honest with ourselves because that is the only one that has worked so far.
madam president, i want to join a clear condemnation of the excessive use of force on george floyd that resulted in a tragic outcome. he, unfortunately, is not the only victim of the systematic, deeply-rooted, institutional racism that has not disappeared for a century and half since the abolition of slavery and 50 years since the civil rights movement. condemning racism in america is not complete if we do not look at everything we, as the european union, do wrong. the non-discrimination directive has been blocked in the council for 12 years. there is a proposal for a further reduction of the justice, rights and values fund, and school curriculums are often selective and overlook the less glorious part of the past. in the context of foreign policy and transatlantic relations, the european union should remain committed to improving its partnership with the united states, which will be based on the rule of law, human rights and common understanding of democracy. it’s time to clearly condemn all those within our society who are actively working on additional divisions for political opportunism and together stand up for a europe united in diversity but also equality for all.
madam president, i want to share with you an essay i wrote when i was eight years old. ‘i am monica semedo. i have beautiful black skin. my family came from cape verde to luxembourg. we almost had to go back to our island because we should be expelled from the country. in the beginning, i was at the saint-françois institute. now, our mother found a beautiful large apartment. i am happy with everyone.’ my teacher laughed when i said, ‘we’re all just luxembourgers!’. she added, ‘we are all just human beings!’ however, colour is not invisible. i have experienced racism. i’ve been surrounded by 40 neo-nazis shouting at me. i frequently get stopped at airports. once i was even separated from my friends for hours. i hear prejudiced remarks about black people, and then: ‘but you’re an exception!’ and i say ‘no, i’m not!’ this is why we must support this resolution and call on the council to unblock the anti-discrimination directive. the time for silence is over. (applause)
mr president, schengen, who would have thought the name of this charming little luxembourg town, situated in the triangle of the french, german and luxembourg borders, would be such a success? schengen has become the symbol of a europe without borders. moving from one country to another has become so natural that we no longer even imagine the meaning of having to stop and justify ourselves. the schengen acquis is, as far as individual freedom is concerned, an invaluable achievement, a small, excuse me, a real marvel of european unity. then let's preserve that. the covid-19 pandemic has certainly justified the movement bans imposed on people in europe. what could be more normal than to create a cordon sanitaire around an epidemic outbreak? this coincides with a border between countries, it is a salutary aid. but how can you justify closing a border when the epidemic situation is the same on both sides? i would not think of condemning the fact that some countries, in a panic, have reacted by withdrawing into themselves. let's say it's the human irrational and be lenient. but then, we need countries to reopen internal borders in schengen as soon as possible, and above all, beyond the covid-19 crisis, some countries should not abuse the possibility, except in very exceptional cases, to close their borders. it is, however, - (the president cut the speaker off)
ladies and gentlemen, dear mrs wiseler-lima, i must now interrupt the sitting for a moment to allow the first round of voting to begin, and then you will have the floor. i therefore feel obliged to open the first round of voting today before we continue the debate. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 10.30 a.m. to 11.45 a.m. the voting procedure you are familiar with will be used. all votes are now by name, and both members of the european parliament and citizens can check the votes cast and the results of the vote by means of the document published on the plenary session website. i therefore declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 11.45. the result of this round of voting will be announced at 2.15 p.m. this afternoon.
we now continue our debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the preparation of the special european council meeting on the dangerous escalation and the role of turkey in the eastern mediterranean (2020/2774 (rsp)).
mr president, turkey is a candidate country for membership of the european union. it is a member of the european union's customs union and nato. in addition, whole sections of turkish civil society aspire to the values promoted within the european union. the government in power is thus challenged from within for its constant deviations from democratic values and fundamental freedoms: annulment of the election results won by the opposition; intimidation and imprisonment, including of journalists. there is thus an active civil society, eager to see human rights respected, which looks to the european union with hope. for the incumbent government, establishing a warmongering relationship with the european union is a way of making it look like an adversary, a role we refuse to accept for the turkish people. the attitude of the turkish authorities in the mediterranean is a pure provocation: regular violation of greek airspace and territorial waters without apparent purpose, disputed waters where no natural resources have been discovered. i ask you: what is this turkish power really seeking? we call for strong measures against these provocations and we continue to assure our turkish friends, defenders of fundamental rights, of our support.
mr president, in minsk and elsewhere in belarus, peaceful demonstrators in the tens of thousands are loudly and clearly rejecting alexander lukashenko. they have faced intimidation, brutality, imprisonment, and even torture. i have a deep admiration for them. the european union is right to call for new elections, beyond the refusal to recognise the declared results. the parallel sometimes drawn with venezuela is quite justified. here too, a president refuses a democratic alternation and seizes power by crushing a people in the long run. for these dictators, the fear of a tarnished international or even national reputation is no longer a concern. the lack of reputation, coupled with the absolute thirst for power, dictates their decisions against all common sense. this is a dangerous state just as the continuation of the current situation in belarus is. svetlana tsikanovskaya, the belarusian coordination council and civil society need our support. their revolution is a democratic revolution, not a geopolitical one. russia will agree to that. our support is a support for a people eager for democracy.
madam president, i’m sorry but we have exactly the same problem for the next debate on dr mukwege, which is that the first three authors to take the floor have not participated in the negotiations. i don’t understand why we don’t do things like we used to do them: take the authors in the order of importance of the groups. at least you could do that. it’s completely awkward to have as a first orator taking the floor somone from id who has been completely absent. this is a problem for some of us as we have no clue what they think on the issue. so it’s more than just a cosmetic problem. i think it’s really problematic. it’s symbolic who takes the floor in the first place, and that’s not the kind of signal we want to send to the person who we are defending today. so please convey this huge concern to the people responsible for that. don’t talk to us about the rules, because rules have limits and these are not good rules.
author. madam president, the human rights situation in the philippines is of great concern. extrajudicial executions in the fight against drugs are unacceptable practices in the light of human dignity and international law. we condemn them in the strongest terms. we condemn the threats, intimidation, rape and violence of all kinds against those in the country who protest against these practices, including human rights defenders and journalists. press freedom is very limited in the country, given the threats, intimidation and violence against journalists. i would like to mention the name of the journalist maria ressa. in light of the distress experienced by many people in the philippines, we express our condemnation of violence against lgbtiq people; we condemn the trafficking of children and their recruitment for armed conflict; we condemn the rape of women and girls, which is also trivialized by president duterte's absolutely unacceptable statements. meps voted in favour of the resolution, calling on the philippine government to comply with its obligations under international law and on the european union to use all appropriate means to bring the philippine government to a governance in line with human rights.
madam president, denis mukwege has devoted most of his life to trying to end the use of sexual violence against women as a weapon of war. denis mukwege treated more than 55,000 surviving victims at the panzi hospital. his life has been threatened all along, but in the last few months, these threats have been greatly reinforced. sexual violence against women in the context of war cannot go unpunished and we therefore welcome the recent decision taken on 3 september, an important judicial decision to not allow this crime to go unpunished. but in addition to the conflicts within the territory, there is also violence, which is multiplied by the presence of foreign groups in the east of the country, which exploit the minerals. we call on the international community to support human rights defenders in the congo, not to allow crimes to go unpunished and to refuse to trade with companies that own natural resources and promote violence in the country.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. we bow today to the case of dr. denis mukwege, nobel peace prize winner and longtime social activist, also honored with the sakharov prize. the hospital, which dr. mukwege runs, is the largest center for rape and sexual violence victims in the country, and the doctor himself openly opposes sexual violence and demands justice for its victims. dr. mukwege has always defended the victims of violence, but now it's time to defend him as well. it is because of his work that dr. mukwege, his family and his colleagues are receiving death threats. unfortunately, there was an assassination attempt on dr. mukwege, which killed one of his bodyguards. so we can have no doubt that the threat is very real. i therefore believe that the european parliament cannot remain indifferent to this threat. we must demand action to protect dr. mukwege, but also call on the government of the democratic republic of congo to launch a thorough investigation to determine the source of the threats that dr. mukwege, his family and hospital staff are receiving. and today's debate is certainly an opportunity to bring attention to the problems that dr. mukwege has been dealing with for years. the european union naturally condemns sexual violence, but our role cannot be limited to that. activists in the democratic republic of congo who are working against violence, including sexual violence, and supporting victims of violence should be explicitly supported and strong government action should be demanded.
in the name of the s&d group. madam president, in the congo, sexual abuse is used as a weapon of war and the doctor who denounces and clinically treats these crimes is under threat of death. this doctor is denis mukwege, winner of the sakharov prize and the nobel peace prize. the european union, the united nations, the african union and the rule of law must all stand by them in the fight against the grave violations of human rights and the impunity with which the most basic pillars of society are trampled. her recent denunciation of yet another massacre in kivu and her call for the armed groups responsible for the continued crimes of sexual violence to be brought to justice have triggered a real threat to her physical integrity, which has demanded the restoration of protection by un forces at panzi hospital, interrupted in may this year because of the pandemic. the functioning of the judiciary must be ensured and the european union must remain vigilant and proactive and sanction all perpetrators of violence and human rights violators. i reiterate our solidarity with dr. denis mukwege and his clinical staff for their extraordinary work in combating sexual violence as a strategy and terrorist act.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am outraged, shocked and concerned that we are having to discuss the safety of dr denis mukwege. this shows how terror and impunity have reached a level unprecedented on a human scale in this region. this man, who should no longer be awarded the sakharov prize, the nobel peace prize, and above all a hero for the whole people, is the voice of raped women, the wall against suffering, terror and executions. it is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen this wall which defends our fundamental values in this country. amani kwenu. i know. peace be with you. right for you.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! dr. denis mukwege, nobel peace prize winner, sakharov prize winner, an extremely strong, courageous, heroic physician who has fought with great determination, commitment and effectiveness against sexual violence and the exploitation of women in armed conflict. he's broadcasting reports of rape. he speaks publicly about the impunity of the authorities. now he needs our unwavering support. so it is our duty to ensure his safety now, and that is why we call on the united nations and the congolese government to ensure the safety of the doctor, his family, the patients, the hospital staff. we should support the victims of sexual violence in congo, and the activists who bring them this support.
madam president, dr denis mukwege is a remarkable man who has devoted much of his life to fighting sexual violence as a weapon of war. he was awarded the 2018 nobel peace prize, after receiving the 2014 sakharov prize. this choice in 2014 expresses our admiration for dr mukwege better than we can do today, but it also implies a special responsibility for us as meps today. we owe it our support to ensure that it can continue to defend human rights safely. the current threats to his fundamental right to life are due to his tireless struggle, and more particularly to his calls to end the impunity enjoyed by those who commit sexual crimes and massacres in several provinces of the democratic republic of congo. we therefore strongly urge the congolese authorities to guarantee the safety of dr mukwege and to ensure that those who made the threats are prevented from harming him and are held accountable for their actions. but we also call on the international community to step up its efforts to eliminate the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war, to protect victims, to end impunity for perpetrators and to ensure access to justice and reparation for victims.
mr president, looking at our eu financial institutions you can see that governing boards are male-dominated. that is why i co-authored the renew europe principles to help achieve gender balance in the nomination process. this problem is mirrored in the private sector where women face the same barriers. we should encourage companies to promote diversity and they should choose the best qualified candidates, and honestly speaking, i would not like to be appointed only because i’m a woman, because i’m young or because i’m black. so in order to have more qualified female candidates, we have to foster financial and entrepreneurial skills from an early age. i urge the commissioner, it’s time to get rid of outdated views in our society and work towards a future where women – and men – truly have the same opportunities.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, in the sandinista revolution, the fight against the tyrant anastasio somoza sounded good. in my memory it is associated with the songs of carlos mejía godoy, joyful, hopeful. today you can only hear them with nostalgia. the government of daniel ortega destroyed these scores. today, it is a corrected and augmented reflection of the dictatorship he overthrew. the agreements reached in 2019 to seek a peaceful, dialogue-based and lasting solution to an unprecedented crisis, to organize free elections and to resume coexistence have been left in shambles. and the responsibility for the failure lies with those who promote laws such as the regulation of so-called "foreign agents" or the one that, under the excuse of combating cybercrime, sanctifies censorship; both are flagrant violations of basic democratic principles and international treaties signed by nicaragua; both deepen the repressive drift denounced by all kinds of international organizations and human rights defenders. that is why i express my support and solidarity with the victims of the repression. i also support sanctions against the leaders of this criminal regime and the sending of a parliamentary mission there as soon as possible. i welcome the union's commitment to human rights defenders, the independent media, the democratic opposition and all those working there for peace and coexistence. in short, it is a matter of demanding that nicaragua immediately and fully comply with the clauses of the association agreement between the union and the countries of central america which focus on the defence of the rule of law.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, since the brutal repression of social movements in april 2018, nicaragua seems to have been caught in an endless authoritarian drift. ngos and other organizations that receive foreign funding are rightly mentioned. they will now be overseen by a close government oversight, following a bill on 22 september 2020. in fact, less is said about the catholic church, which has been the target of verbal and physical attacks by president ortega and his supporters. the fact that archbishop carlos avilés cantón spoke of persecution should be a cause for concern at a time when, from the middle east to the west, christianity is the most oppressed religion in the world. also absent from our debates is the bill on so-called fake news, which is now punishable by up to four years in prison. thus, the false pretext of disinformation has been used to silence freedom of expression for good. and in this respect nicaragua is a borderline and caricatural case of a dramatic and general retreat of our fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. our parliament, which is divided on many issues, seems to be united on this issue, and that's a good thing. this is an important and necessary signal to our friends in nicaragua who are fighting for freedom of speech, freedom of demonstration, for those basic rights that my colleague was talking about a moment ago. i think it's important to say here that this is not a nicaraguan government stunt, but it's something that happens all the time. this pressure from us has to be concrete. that is to say, a resolution is not enough here, we must say very clearly that if the nicaraguan regime does not abandon this policy in its current form, then we will impose sanctions, for example, a blacklist of people who cannot enter the european union from nicaragua. it's about the politicians of this country.
madam president, today the european parliament once again strongly condemns the authoritarian drift of the current president ortega in nicaragua, and we do so especially because we believe that the series of legislative measures, including the law on the regulation of foreign agents, is yet another twist in the unacceptable repression and persecution of political dissent, a lack of respect for pluralism and, above all, a lack of respect for freedom of expression and freedom of the press. we call on the european parliament to cease hostilities against civil society and political dissent in nicaragua and to use all our european tools wisely to put pressure on the nicaraguan government in the current situation: all the diplomatic tools at our disposal. what's the point? that there be electoral reforms, reforms in the country, to ensure a fair electoral competition, that democratically guarantees the opposition and civil society that they can compete in freedom; in freedom and on equal terms with the current nicaraguan government.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, since the last time we discussed nicaragua in this parliament last december, the situation in the country has not improved. against the renewed pattern of persecution, harassment and intimidation, the european union is following the possible adoption of the law on regulation of foreign agents and the special law on cybercrimes, which could be used to tighten further the grip over civil society in nicaragua. the draft foreign agents law in particular could be used to impose further restrictions on civil and political rights of individuals, civil society and on media outlets. it will also probably affect our cooperation programmes as well as nicaragua’s human rights obligations and commitments. since the beginning we have followed with utmost attention the tabling of the draft foreign agents law. on tuesday our head of delegation in managua, accompanied by all eu member states present in the country, reached out to the nicaraguan authorities in managua at minister of foreign affairs level to voice our concerns and find out more about the draft text, as well as to share our preoccupation on how the law would affect international human rights law and civil liberties in nicaragua. the european union has consistently voiced concerns against laws labelling ngos as foreign agents all over the world. nicaraguan citizens should be able to exercise their freedom of association effectively, and non-governmental organisations should operate in an environment conducive to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. civil society should operate free from hindrance and insecurity. civil society organisations are essential actors for the promotion of human rights, good governance, democracy and the rule of law. the european union comments and expresses its support for all individuals and organisations in nicaragua who are still carrying out their legitimate and peaceful human rights work, despite the challenging circumstances in which they operate.
madam president, thousands of migrants are being held in inhumane conditions and are being tortured and raped in detention centres in saudi arabia. the scandal has now erupted, but unfortunately, at least since 2017, these mass arrests and expulsions are being carried out, contrary to international humanitarian law; an international law that saudi arabia is an expert in violating and ignoring, protected by the united states and often also by the european union. in fact, just a week ago, mr borrell met with the saudi authorities, but apparently, according to his press release, he forgot to mention this very situation that we are talking about here in parliament. saudi arabia's illegal immigration policy is just one example of the many human rights violations that are committed in this country. but in the meantime europe - this europe - continues to sell you arms and offers you cooperation agreements. we are once again demanding decisive action and not just pretty words: an arms embargo, the immediate release of all immigrants and women human rights defenders imprisoned in saudi arabia. let us take note of this and, above all, make concrete policies.
author. madam president, tomorrow parliament will send a strong message of condemnation of the situation of ethiopian immigrants, workers who are in a terrible situation in camps in saudi arabia, but it is a resolution that goes much further than that: we are also going to deal with systematic violations of human rights in that country; we have to talk about women human rights defenders, the situation of women, and the text talks about this; we also talk about the fact that we have not yet had a punishment for those responsible for the crime and the murder of mr jashogui, the situation of raif badawi, who is by the way the sakharov prize of this house. it is totally intolerable that, in the face of such a serious human rights situation, the countries of the european union should continue to trade in arms in such a systematic way with this country. two things to conclude my speech: firstly, the resolution will ask the european institutions to reduce the level of participation in the g20; we do not want the president of the council or the president of the commission there. and finally, i have to tell the ppe that, after the scandal they caused with venezuela yesterday in the plenary, that they were not able to sign this resolution, frankly, is a double standard in human rights which is frankly intolerable.
author. – madam president, the situation of the ethiopian migrants in detention centres in saudi arabia is deplorable. thirty thousand people held in dire conditions in ten centres in saudi arabia, after escaping the crossfire from houthi and saudi forces on the border. they lack water and food, the sanitary conditions are appalling and they have no medical care, with tuberculosis and other diseases rapidly spreading. saudi arabia needs to immediately release all detainees and transfer them to facilities where they have access at least to the basics: food, water, medical services, sanitation and space. the torture and ill-treatment in the detention centres must stop immediately and an investigation must be conducted into all allegations of human rights violations. international monitors must be given access to monitor the situation there, and ethiopian migrants must be provided a safe and dignified repatriation, in cooperation with the international organization for migration (iom). as human rights are, and must be, at the core of the eu’s external policy, the eu and member states must raise this issue also with saudi arabia most urgently. i think that it’s also necessary to downgrade eu institutional and diplomatic representation at the upcoming g20 leaders’ summit to send a clear message that this kind of treatment is not acceptable.
author. madam president, it is important that we talk about the outrageous laws, because they are incredibly discriminatory, against women in saudi arabia. it is important that we speak about human rights defenders and political prisoners, whose rights are being violated in this country. it is important that we condemn the corporal punishment of another age and the application of the death penalty in this country. it is important that the european parliament addresses without delay the whole human rights situation in saudi arabia. i will ask my colleagues, the legal coordinators, to make this one of the next items on the agenda. today's agenda includes a resolution on the situation of ethiopian migrants in detention centres in saudi arabia. i shall therefore confine myself to this resolution and the related problems of migration. it is also on these points that i shall be voting. let me simply add that we should go far beyond the subject under consideration, there is no shortage of choices. the other detention centres around the world where migrants are held in abominable conditions would have been no less worthy of our attention. among the migrants in saudi arabia, ethiopians are certainly the ones with the most difficult living conditions. often already victims of smugglers who bring them through yemen, once they arrive, they are exploited, underpaid and often at the mercy of their employer under the kafala system, a system that amounts to a situation of modern slavery. now rejected because of the covid-19 pandemic, thousands of ethiopian migrants find themselves in even greater distress without resources, without means of subsistence. equally destitute are the ethiopians who were deported by the thousands from yemen to saudi arabia. ethiopia's failure to repatriate its citizens has left hundreds of people waiting, detained and held in camps with inhuman living conditions, confined spaces, often infected with the covid virus, or subjected to other forms of abuse. and this for weeks, if not months. among them are particularly vulnerable people, such as children and pregnant women. all this is simply unsustainable. we therefore call on the ethiopian authorities to repatriate their nationals as soon as possible and on saudi arabia to ensure that its detention centres comply with international standards and that migrants under their authority are not subjected to any ill-treatment, torture or sexual abuse. we call on the european union not only to raise awareness of these inhumane conditions of detention, but also to use all diplomatic and political levers to try to stop them. finally, i would like to reiterate our support for the united states global compact on migration, which promotes standards for host countries to protect human rights, especially those of vulnerable groups.
in writing. the cap plays an important role in the development of rural areas in the eu. the abandonment of farming should be stopped by maintaining a strong and well-funded cap, in order to mitigate the decline in rural population and to continue to meet the expectations of consumers and farmers in terms of high-quality food production. this requires equal treatment of all eu farmers. this is necessary to ensure that all farmers have equal opportunities. unfortunately, such unequal treatment of farmers still occurs, especially in the direct payment system. therefore, payments should be equalised as soon as possible for all farmers, irrespective of their region or country. this is particularly important for farmers from the so-called new member states, such as lithuania. only by harmonizing subsidies will it be possible to compete fairly on the eu agricultural market and to develop agriculture in our countries. as far as the future of agriculture is concerned, the focus should be on producing high-quality food, because that is where we have a competitive advantage. measures are also needed to improve the long-term efficiency and competitiveness of the food production sector and to facilitate and finance the introduction of new technologies in agricultural production. future action should also focus on creating new jobs in agriculture, as this is the only way to halt the decline in the rural population, which is a serious problem. there are job opportunities in rural areas, all that is needed is a sound agricultural policy. these are the main challenges for the coming year.
in writing. we voted on the new common agricultural policy in the european parliament. it is the work and support of the three major groups that has brought it to fruition and has given new impetus to more than half a century of european aid to farmers and livestock farmers, which has brought our countries and markets together and contributed to the construction of europe. in spain, the figures are undeniable: more than 726 000 farmers and livestock farmers received €5 006 million in cap support in 2018. almost 30% of their average income. the new cap will therefore be more economically and environmentally sustainable. new eco-schemes are being introduced to support green interventions and also increased support for young farmers or a redistributive income that encourages growth for smaller farms. it will also give countries more flexibility to adapt to their own needs and better accompany our primary sector in the modernisation that will propel it into the future. the cap will now be dealt with in the council. there, minister planas will have to achieve for the spanish countryside what he has not achieved so far: not to force them to do more with less and not to cut the cap budget. i wish you luck and success, because it will be ours too.
in writing. this week's plenary debates have highlighted the differences between colleagues on agricultural policy issues. instead of finding a compromise that worked in the interests of each individual member state, each vote and proposed amendment created new and different points of view between the groups and committees. in particular, among the representatives of the committee on agriculture. therefore, representing latvia, i have to be sure that the interests of latvian farmers are reflected and protected. in this case, the plan to introduce the same rules for all would have a disproportionate impact on latvia compared to other member states. i would like to remind my colleagues that it is important to keep in mind the diversity and differences of each member state, its strengths and weaknesses in each agricultural sector. in order to implement long-term measures, it is necessary to ensure that each member state is able to implement these provisions. the same rules do not apply to all in the implementation of climate change legislation. although the latvian agricultural sector still needs to improve and change its practices in order to ensure a greener and more sustainable agriculture in the future compared to the situation in other member states, latvia is certainly an example to follow. different levels of opportunity need not always be seen as a negative, if such a situation is taken into account and dealt with appropriately. however, it was clear this week that the debate and the talks were not about solving this issue by focusing directly on the agricultural sector, but rather about using it to satisfy personal ambitions.
the results of the third vote today will be announced this evening, tuesday, 20 october, at 11 p.m. instead of 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, so the announcement of the third round of voting will be postponed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. so this was a package of reordering to also be able to focus more on the individual results. the information on the redistribution of votes is available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information' and i must therefore ask you: do you have any objections to this redistribution and to this new date for the announcement of the result of the third round of voting? if not, these amendments are accepted. the votes on the amendments will take place today, tomorrow, thursday and friday. the final vote will take place on friday, 23 october 2020. i think we've got the whole package neatly divided up. (the sitting was suspended at 12.43 p.m.)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is indeed my pleasure to present to you today the commission’s 2021 work programme. this is the third such programme in the past nine months, as we have had to react to the outbreak of the pandemic, but i hope that it will represent a return to our normal cycle of work. as you know, in the first 100 days of this commission’s mandate, we set out our vision for the future and our proposed actions, notably to prepare our societies and economies for socially fair, green and digital transitions. not long after, europe and the world were blindsided by the covid-19 pandemic and, together with this house and the member states in the council, we have taken forceful action to limit the health-related, social and economic effects of the crisis. now, with our continent tormented by a second wave of infections, we can see more clearly than ever the magnitude of the challenge we are facing. the pandemic has sharpened the need to strengthen europe’s long-term resilience, while we remain fully committed to our overarching ambition to lead twin green and digital transitions. it is in this context that we have drawn up the 2021 work programme. it shows how we plan to move beyond the fragility caused by the crisis, to seize the opportunity in front of us and to revitalise the european union. this year’s action, as well as the preparation of this work, was a joint exercise. a key institutional step in the process was the meeting between the conference of committee chairs of this house and the vice-presidents of the commission. this exchange offered an excellent opportunity for an in-depth discussion of our priorities and expectations. before that, the discussions of the conference of presidents with president von der leyen contributed to defining the priority initiatives for 2021, which have already been announced in the letter of intent. let me assure you that our priority is to maintain the special partnership throughout the entire policy cycle. the 2021 work programme marks a clear shift from strategy to delivery, with an emphasis on new legislative initiatives in annex 1 and revisions to existing legislation in annex 2, which stem from commitments made in the strategies adopted in the first year of the mandate. the commission aims to deliver not only on the recovery, but also on strengthening our long-term resilience. for this reason, the narrative refers to the first strategic foresight report, which focused on resilience, and underlines that the initiatives we will put on the table will be guided by strategic foresight. this means that we consider not only what is needed to recover today, but also what is required to build a better tomorrow. let me give you a few examples of the key initiatives planned for 2021. thanks to next generation eu, the historic recovery plan we presented, together with the revamped long-term budget, europe has a ready-made tool to seize this opportunity. to repay the funds raised under the next generation eu, the commission will put forward proposals for new own resources, starting with a revised emissions trading system, a carbon border adjustment mechanism and the digital levy. to achieve a climate neutral europe by 2050, we have set out many of the measures that we will table as a part of the ‘fit for 55’ package. you will see the different proposals, ranging from renewables to energy efficiency. we will follow this up with a host of initiatives to implement the eu circular economy action plan, the eu biodiversity strategy and the farm to fork strategy. to make this europe’s digital decade, we will come forward with a roadmap of clearly defined 2030 digital goals, related to connectivity, skills and digital public services. we will also ensure the follow-up to the white paper on artificial intelligence, and we will draw lessons from the pandemic with a new industrial strategy for europe and a legislative proposal to improve the working conditions of platform workers. in order to mitigate the social crisis, we will put forward an ambitious action plan to fully implement the european pillar of social rights, making sure that no one is left behind in europe’s recovery. another important initiative will be the new european child guarantee scheme, notably ensuring access to basic services like health and education for all children. to support our economies and strengthen the economic and monetary union, we will revise the framework for handling eu bank failures, take measures to boost cross-border investment in the eu and step up the fight against money laundering. throughout next year, our geopolitical commission will ensure that europe continues to play a vital role in our fragile world, including by leading the global efforts to secure a safe and accessible vaccine for all. in addition, we will propose, not only the trade policy review, but also a joint communication on strengthening the eu’s contribution to rules-based multilateralism, among other key initiatives designed to create a stronger europe in the world. in the face of covid-19, the commission proposes building a stronger european health union, including through the creation of a new agency for biomedical advanced research and development. to preserve and improve its functioning, a new strategy for the future of schengen will be tabled, together with a number of measures on legal migration. we will continue the implementation of the security union and will set out a comprehensive strategy on combating anti-semitism. finally, many initiatives will fall under the push for european democracy, including new strategies on the rights of the child and for persons with disabilities, as well as a proposal to combat gender-based violence. the commission will, among other things, propose clearer rules on the financing of european political parties and take action to protect journalists and civil society against abusive litigation. a long-term vision for rural areas will propose actions to harness the full potential of these regions. to make sure everyone can have their say, we also stress that it is now more important than ever that we launch the conference on the future of europe. it is clear that the coming year will be a busy one for policymaking in very difficult circumstances. given that this work programme is focused on delivery, we must therefore be fully committed to our better regulation, better law-making agenda. in the coming weeks, we will put forward a new better regulation communication to offer a renewed focus on consultation, impact assessment, simplification and border reduction. in total, we are announcing 86 flagship initiatives this year, grouped under 44 policy objectives or packages. under the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit), we have proposed 43 significant pieces of legislation for evaluation or revision. to close, let me underline that bringing all our ambitions to life will require a team effort among all institutions. in this respect, let me highlight the importance of the joint declaration on legislative priorities to be endorsed by the presidents of the three institutions. it will serve as a concrete roadmap for our joint work and, in parallel, we will engage in the first ever multiannual programming to capture our common strategic priorities for europe. thank you very much for your attention and for your great cooperation in preparing the commission’s work programme. i am really looking forward to your questions and comments.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european union needs to show leadership in these extremely challenging and uncertain times. our clear strategies also need to be clearly communicated. the epp group welcomes the commission’s work programme and we are ready to work together on the implementation of our priorities. now i would like to briefly walk you through the epp’s priorities, aside from the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the recovery package. first, the digital strategy. during this plenary, the european parliament is to adopt six reports on the digital services act and artificial intelligence. these files matter a lot and we are now opening up discussions on how we, as regulators, can strike the right balance between digital progress and the respect of fundamental rights and freedoms. it is up to us, as policymakers, to build a regulatory framework for where voluntary commitments from the private sector are not enough. we have to create an artificial intelligence ecosystem that serves the people first. looking to the future, we have to make education and training systems fit for the digital age. the digital revolution also requires enhanced cross-border judiciary cooperation. second, the functions of the schengen area. with the second wave of the pandemic sweeping through europe, better coordination is necessary to avoid disruption of the internal market and preserve jobs. we welcome the intention of the commission to present a new strategy for the future of schengen. however, unfortunately, we see that member states have once again adopted various national restrictions which undermine not only the right of eu citizens to free movement, but also the recovery of the eu economy. our group supports a healthy union that enables innovation, invests in the health and well-being of its citizens, and increases our resilience and preparedness to tackle cross-border health threats. an aging population, the need to ensure better access to treatment for all, the high prevalence of chronic diseases or diseases with a high social burden, such as cancer, require a more coordinated response at european level. we also believe that the eu must shape globalisation and use its trade policy to set standards internationally. our ability to conclude win-win agreements is fundamental to economic growth and recovery. however, we must not be naive. we strongly support the commission in ensuring that the interests of the eu are fully protected and that our companies do not suffer from unfair competition. this brings me to the industrial strategy, which has to remain competitive while taking into account the digital and environmental challenges of tomorrow. last but not least, the green deal. our environmental ambitions cannot be only about defending targets. the epp will focus on concrete means that will bring about a significant reduction in emissions. innovation and research will be key in this field. we ask the commission to keep this in mind when negotiating the mff and specific programmes with the council. fighting against climate change and fighting for employment in the context of the covid-19 pandemic are the top priorities of our citizens.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for your time. let me just briefly mention at the outset that i think this variety of shutdowns and lockdowns across europe is completely overblown. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reproach i make to the european union here is that it is using this crisis to implement more and more centralisation. this concerns the multiannual financial framework, this concerns social union, this concerns corona bonds, a whole series of measures which are suddenly being implemented in the process of this wave of economic recovery without the democratic involvement of the member states. another area is the green deal, where excessive measures, with savings of up to 55%, are a death blow to the economy and industry. it is precisely at a time like this that we must give people confidence and react with moderation, which i do not think is the case. if you are doing nature conservation and environmental protection - which i am all for - then please consider the many truck journeys that are completely unnecessary across europe. the transport of live animals is the important thing here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
for the greens/efa group. madam president, i would first say to mr vilimsky that i am quite glad that he and his friends are not the ones who are handling the health crisis. when you see how mr. trump does it and they obviously want to do the same kind of thing here... well, i feel safer when the democratic parties are handling the crisis! this being said, mr vice-president, humanity faces a huge challenge beyond the pandemic. it is making sure that this planet still remains uninhabitable for human beings. and let me say i am happy to see that for the first time ever i think, this commission, the one you belong to under the leadership of ursula von der leyen, is starting to take the full measure of what that means. and the fact that you have decided to make the european green deal the core strategy for the european union bodes well. i will just say that those who say that this is all window dressing, that this is all greenwashing, don't realize what you are trying to make happen. so you're right. we have to move from ambition to action and i'm very happy to hear that. i would say that there are two aspects that you need to avoid. the first one is, well, to keep open these blind angles of the green deal so far, and by that i mean trade policy you announced a review of trade policy and thats a very good thing but also agricultural policy. we are going to vote, and it's already too late. i think you let this one go. the future cap will not be aligned with the green deal. i deeply regret that, and i think that the commission could have avoided that. the other thing i want to say is that there will be many attempts to gut your plans of the european green deal. resist them. we will be with you to do that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr šefčovič, the commission is usually good at what it says. it's what happens in practice. and in practice, what is usually said about european union action is true: 'too little, too late'. the second wave of the pandemic is hitting with particular force and shows that we need to do more at european level to protect public health. the large increase in recession and unemployment shows that the positive step of the recovery fund is not enough. we also need a stronger multiannual community budget. what you said about the social pillar has been going on for three years, but little has been done. what you have said about more solidarity has been said for years, but an unjust policy is still being implemented with a lack of solidarity towards refugees/migrants, which is hurting my country, greece, and is unfair to europe because it creates moravia. what you said about climate change and the digital transition we also need to see translated into budget lines. the commission's role is to act as a mediator between parliament and the council, because we need more and better europe, and this requires stronger, more equal and more effective resources.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i think that the honourable members touched on the most important elements in the work plan of the commission for the next year and i fully understand, totally sympathise and support the focus that all the interventions put on the current pandemic, on tackling the virus, and i agree with all of you that in these particular situations we never can say that we did enough, because every day is bringing new challenges, every day brings more suffering, and therefore i totally agree with you that we should really focus our minds on how to tackle the crisis in more efficient way. i was part of a very vigorous discussion in the general affairs council as you know, this was also debated on the level of the european council, and i know that you devote a lot of time to looking for the best ways on how to tackle the pandemic and i think that the answers you provided are the correct ones. we need more coordination. we need to inform each other better. we need to listen more to the science and we need the stronger health union – where we will find the better ways for how to inform each other about border closures, where we would align the methodologies for testing for scientific data and where we, as we are doing right now, would be focusing for making sure that we will play this good role of europe, for making sure that we will guarantee the high quality, tested, proven vaccines for all, not only in europe but on the entire planet. that’s, i think, one of the key missions: to show that europe is doing its utmost to make sure that our world is a better place, and i’m sure that with your support we will build the stronger health union in the european union and also we will equip europe with the instruments we need, and thank you very much for that support. the green and digital. there was a lot of discussion and i remember that we have been debating also together whether covid-19 would in any way slow down our efforts in making sure that this twin transition will bring the transformative effects we expect from it to the benefit of the european economy. i think we have seen the opposite. we have seen that the covid—19 crisis has served as an accelerator of our efforts and that more and more people in europe realised during this first lockdown how nature is important, how protection of the environment is crucial for the survival of the human species, and how important it is not to waiver in protecting our environment, and therefore we need to find the ways for how this twin transition could be mutually reinforced. it will be part one of our foresight studies for the next year: what are the links and how can we reinforce these green and digital processes together? i would really like to thank you for the very good discussion and your legislative reports on artificial intelligence, on the digital services act and on digital policies. they will, for sure, help us dramatically in launching what is already happening, that this decade should be the decade of digital policies for europe. mr marques and also mr papadimoulis but also mr azmani have rightly highlighted the importance of social policies. i think that if you look at our programme you will see that we are presenting a very ambitious action plan. it’s not a plan, it’s an action plan. concretely, what we are going to do in making sure that nobody is left behind and that we are going to deliver on the very concrete elements, how to build the european pillar of social rights, and i think that we will be debating every single measure and i’m sure that together we will create a much stronger social network, much stronger social policies, which i hope would mitigate the dire consequences of not only the health but also the economic crisis through which we are going together. i would like to thank mr kovatchev, mr marques, and also mr lamberts, for on one side the strong calls for being more ambitious and also for reminding us that to achieve all these ambitious policies we need sources, we need instruments, and in our case this is the multiannual financial perspective, this is the next generation eu. i can assure all of you that we will do our utmost to be an honest broker. you know where we stand in this very important institutional debate and discussions, i heard that the negotiators are working very hard, that they are optimistic, despite the very difficult discussions, that we will have this very important financial instrument at our disposal as of 1 january 2021. i think the citizens would have a hard time forgiving us if we wouldn’t manage to get that, so i think we have to put all our minds, all our creativity, all our good political will, to making sure that we will have the budget and the next generation eu in place as of 1 january 2021 so we can implement all of the proposals which we discussed today ,because as you all underlined, this should be really the year where we will move from strategy to delivery. that’s our intention and i’m sure that thanks to your close cooperation and your support, we will achieve that.
in writing. 2020 has been the most difficult year for a united europe in its history. as member states are facing the dreaded second wave of the covid-19 pandemic, the commission's work programme for 2021 must be up to the challenge ahead. the priorities identified the european green deal, digital transformation, a people-centred economy, strengthening the eu in the global context, promoting european values and democracy certainly point in this direction. the european child guarantee is particularly significant, to ensure that every child has access to essential services such as education and health; strengthening the security union, in particular with regard to the fight against organised crime; the new strategies on the rights of persons with disabilities and on the rights of children, in particular on combating all forms of violence, including online, and on the establishment of juvenile justice; the commitment to combating gender-based violence. it must also ensure a strong social dimension in the approach to economic and environmental policies. these initiatives must be translated into legislative proposals by next year, to enable the co-legislators to adopt them before the end of the legislature.
in writing. – never before in modern history has europe had to face such an overwhelming social, economic, political and health challenge. europe needs a systemic change for its foundations where the principles of solidarity, union and fellowship are at the core of our enduring priorities. 2020 is not yet over but we need to be decisive in looking towards 2021, and the european commission’s working programme is a unique opportunity for achieving great acceleration of change and prosperity. yes, we need to push towards a comprehensive green and digital transition that makes our societies and economies more resilient. also, we must ensure that the pandemic will not deepen the inequalities and leave the most vulnerable aside. i welcome the adoption of the 10-year eu roma strategic framework. 2021 will see the efforts directed to put forward new targets and recommendations for member states and ensure that the eu does more in providing the vital support that so many roma living in the eu need. marginalisation persists, and many roma continue to face a combination of disproportionate discrimination, anti-gypsyism and socio-economic exclusion in their daily lives that is worsened each day because of the overwhelming global health crisis we are living.
in writing. belgian police kneeled and mocked a detained slovak citizen for 16 minutes, indicating extremist behaviour. the hit resulted in the death of this man. such an action is not only unacceptable to me, but incomprehensible. it's just as incomprehensible as the fact that we didn't find out about this scandal until two years later. i am glad that the belgian police, at my instigation, have taken action and set up a commission of inquiry. but things only really started to move when pressure came from the top. we need to make sure that it's taken for granted that something like this will never happen again.
rapporteur. – madam president, today is the 73rd day of peaceful protests in belarus. belarusian people are bravely facing unlawful arrests, humiliation, assaults, injuries or worse caused by the security forces that should be protecting them. over 14 000 belarusians were detained, more than 350 criminal cases initiated and the list of political prisoners is nearing up to 100. all of these brutalities is because of one person – alexander lukashenko – who puts his own interests over the future of the belarusian people and the independence of belarus. the belarusian people are fighting for their freedom and dignity, for their right to free and fair election and their right to have a say in the matters determining the future of their country. they seek to break free from lukashenko’s 26 years-long dictatorship. their brave and inspiring actions require three simple actions from our side: solidarity, support and sanctions. together with colleagues, we have made sure that this recommendation report to the council and commission and the high representative would guide the european union’s policy towards belarus accordingly. we listened and heard belarusian people, who are not like their former president, are forward looking. they want to live in a free, democratic and prosperous country. the main demand of the belarusian people is to halt violence against peaceful protests, to organise new, free and fair elections and release all detained protesters and political prisoners. our answer must be loud and clear. all violence must stop, everyone detained for political reasons must be immediately released and those responsible have to be brought to justice. the new election has to be held as soon as possible and in compliance with international standards and supervision of the osce. the coordination council initiated by sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, president-elect according to the belarusian people, should be recognised as the legitimate representative of the belarusian people and supported in its efforts to start a dialogue with the regime, for the sake of peaceful and democratic transition of power. the eu-imposed sanctions against the main culprits must be extended. the sanctions list has to include alexander lukashenko and go beyond his closest environment. our support, including the financial one, should go directly to the belarusian people. the eu must also think about a comprehensive programme for belarus to invigorate its economy after the new presidential elections are held. the eu-eastern partnership programme has all tools and expertise to help belarus to modernise and diversify its economy and fight corruption, among other things. in addition to applying pressure to the belarusian regime over human rights violations, the european union has to be alert regarding the launch of the unsafe astravets nuclear power plant this november. nuclear dictatorship of lukashenko presents a major threat to the security of europeans. people on the streets of belarus have spoken. now it’s time for us to show our understanding, support and action.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank mr auštrevičius for his report, and also all the other members of this parliament who have contributed to it. it’s clear that parliament has demonstrated overwhelming support for the rights of the belarusian people and have brought support to the actions taken by the european union institutions at all levels so far. i took note of parliament’s september resolution on belarus and your recommendations today are more than welcome as a further substantive contribution to our work. i agree with you; unfortunately, the situation on the ground in belarus has not improved. there has been and continues to be a brutal crackdown against citizens, journalists, and against members of the coordination council itself. the interior minister recently authorised the use of lethal force – lethal force! – and the increasing levels of violence against protesters are extremely worrying. they are sending extremely worrying signs, but also signs of the desperation on the side of the authorities, aware as they are of the unwavering commitment of belarusians to a democratic future for their country. this house knows very well that the european union has firmly rejected the falsified results of the 9 august presidential elections. we did that at the foreign affairs council. they did that at the european union council and the commission had also joined its voice to this choir. now we have clearly said that alexander lukashenko lacks any democratic legitimacy. we say about him the worst thing that one can say about someone who wants to govern a country: ‘you lack democratic legitimacy for doing so, we don’t recognise you as the legitimate president of belarus’. i want to stress that and repeat it again, solemnly, at this sitting of european democracy. we have now adopted sanctions against 40 belarusian officials responsible for violence, repression and election falsification. we did that a couple of weeks ago, but since the situation in minsk continues to deteriorate and there seem to be limited prospects for a dialogue – i’m saying ‘limited’ rather than saying ‘not at all’ – the council gave its political green light to start the preparation of the next sanctions package. at that time, it will include also alexander lukashenko himself. the technical work started immediately after the council and it will be finished soon. no member state put any kind of obstacle forward to that. the comprehensive council conclusions we adopted on 12 october 2020 sent a clear message that the conduct of these elections has had an adverse effect on european union-belarus relations and we have also stated that ‘business as usual’ is no longer possible. so our relations with belarus are in the course of being re-examined. at the same time, and in line with your recommendation, we have reiterated that the european union stands in solidarity and will step up support to civil society. i also had the opportunity of conveying this message in a phone call i had with the foreign affairs minister of belarus. we have also emphasised that the european union stands ready to support a meaningful democratic transition in belarus and we are working on a comprehensive economic support package that the european union institutions would be ready to offer to a new democratic belarus. the european union remains united in its assessment of the situation and the actions that have to be taken, as i made clear once again when i spoke to foreign minister makei on 9 october, 10 days ago. all member states continue to call on the belarusian authorities to end violence and repression, release all detainees and political prisoners, and respect media freedom. the attempts by the belarusian authorities to target certain eu member states by asking them to reduce their diplomatic representation in minsk will not weaken our unity. i share the views of members of this house, as clearly expressed in the recommendation, that only an inclusive national dialogue with the broader society, in particular with the coordination council, can lead to a peaceful and sustainable solution of the crisis. we continue to support the proposal for an osce mission to facilitate this dialogue and we are promoting such an approach with all international actors, but i have to say that, to my regret, the belarusian authorities have not responded at all. in french you would say ils sont aux abonnés absents, no answer. the people’s patience is running out, as we have seen from the call by ms tsikhanouskaya for certain actions to be taken by 25 october. we admire the perseverance and the determination of the peaceful demonstrators facing threats, intimidation and violence, and call on them to remain peaceful and not to fall into provocations. i know this would be difficult but i think this is the best thing they can do. in this difficult period for the belarusian people we continue our full support for their democratic right to elect their president through new, free and fair elections under osce observation. i have to thank all of you again for your detailed recommendation on belarus. it’s an important contribution and an important support for our work.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, arrests of presidential candidates and peaceful protesters, and the violent crackdown on the opposition and civil society is a picture of belarus today. we condemn it in the strongest possible terms. we cannot tire of repeating that the violence and repression against the people of belarus must stop and new elections must be held. cooperation with the belarusian authorities is no longer possible as long as the regime continues the brutal repression against the people and does not release all recent detainees and political prisoners. this is why the european union must move from critical engagement to critical reassessment. to start with, european union financial assistance must solely benefit civil society. we in the s&d group also want to support the victims of repression, offer help to deal with the socio-economic consequences of the covid—19 pandemic, and also continue to engage with the people, no matter what their walk of life. we fully support the extended list of sanctions that now includes lukashenko too. a business as usual approach has not worked in this case for a long time now. to conclude, we call on the european union to reflect upon its approach to the eastern partnership countries that violate the joint commitments on democracy, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and human rights. the european union must take responsibility for the promise of security and prosperity in the common neighbourhood.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, over 70 days of resolute protests of belarusian people against the usurper president who uses all the power of the country against civilians. i commend petras auštrevičius on his excellent report. it was a privilege to work on this file. his three asks are extremely important: solidarity, support and sanctions. sanctions should be extended. and in terms of support we have to think not only about a future, democratic, better belarusian state, but currently about the overwhelming support to belarusian people, not avoiding any governmental channels.
madam president, for the tenth weekend in a row, the belarusian people have gone out into the streets to protest against their illegitimate government, to protest against the violence and repression, and to let their voice for freedom be heard – all this despite threats from the police to fire with live ammunition. to the brave people of belarus, let me make this very clear: the european parliament will not rest until your legitimate demands for free and fair elections are fully implemented, political prisoners are freed and justice is served to all those guilty of torture and repression. this illegitimate president must step down today. high representative, continued relations with the belarusian authorities is an imperative ‘no’ under the present circumstances. our relations must only be with the belarusian people. the council decision to finally implement sanctions against lukashenko is a much-needed first step and the belarusian people need us to urgently step up. i call on you to ensure a meaningful international coordination of sanctions, to redirect any eu funding away from the regime and to suspend negotiations over partnership priorities until a legitimate government is in place. above all, the eu must not turn up empty-handed. we must provide any support necessary for the country’s democratic transition, in line with its citizens’ aspirations.
madam president, dear belarus, we promised not to be distracted by the news, to remain loyal, to maintain our support for your tremendous commitment without flaw or fear, to your dedication to a democratic transition that ignores brutality, arrests and even torture. we keep our word. you are back in the debates of the european parliament's plenary session, and you will be there for as long as necessary. sanctions were imposed on officials responsible for the repression and intimidation of peaceful protesters, opposition members and journalists. lukashenko, finally, is also on this list - he should have been on it from the beginning - a list that still needs to be extended. mr high representative, impunity must be fought. more must be done to combat it and i want to welcome the decision to create a european magnitsky act in this context. we therefore need an independent fact-finding mission to belarus to investigate the brutal repression that took place. the facts must not be forgotten or overlooked, we owe it to the victims. coordination of international efforts is also needed: the united nations has a special rapporteur for belarus, the council of europe is willing to play a role, and the european union can and must play a leading role in this context. we must also increase our assistance to civil society and to the victims: they need medical, psychological and legal assistance. finally, i would like to stress that the nomination of the belarusian opposition, including svetlana tikhanovskaya, for the sakharov prize is a strong sign of support from the european parliament.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are discussing today the eu's options for mitigating the social and economic consequences of the covid-19 crisis. on the surface, such a thought may seem noble. but the question that must be asked here is: why should this be an eu task at all? firstly, the social and economic consequences of the covid-19 crisis vary widely across member states. secondly - and more importantly - social policy is not a matter for the eu at all, but a matter for the national governments, and that is where it belongs. each state must and can respond to the social and political challenges in its own way. what you are actually doing here is something quite different and, if i may say so, flagrantly contrary to national sovereignty. you come here as a generous saviour, only to gain control of more funds and thus increase your own power. in this way, you are ultimately only seeking to pave the way for the eu to become a state, and to do so you are making a very targeted use of the covid-19 crisis. but the problems of this crisis must and can also be solved by and within the nation states themselves. if the member states take different measures, that is quite good. competition for the best solution is always better than a false centralistic strategy for all. you can see your wrong approach by the fact that you are setting up a huge recovery fund of 750 billion euros without a single word being said about what to do with those 750 billion. the whole thing is to finance a reconstruction which is neither your job nor - despite all your shouting - will actually be necessary in this dimension. you are now eagerly opening another chapter in the decadent history of your power grab. i would like to make it quite clear to you once again: social policy is not the responsibility of the eu. this is a task which is unique to the nation states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. i very much welcome the opportunity to address you directly from vienna today. we are faced in europe with over 200 000 coronavirus cases, 5 million cases, 15 million unemployed and countless people in short-time work. the citizens of europe are looking to us, to the european institutions, and to whether and how we are managing the crises - crises in the majority. because it is an economic crisis, a social and distribution crisis and a climate crisis. the european parliament has repeatedly made it clear in recent months that there are large european majorities for a more social europe, a europe in which we share the costs of crises in solidarity and support each other. so we have to invest massively to get out of these crises. and the victims of crises and those who support us every day in these crises - including women - should be at the centre of our actions. the european care deal is therefore urgently needed and massive investment in health, care and public services is needed - this crisis has shown that. and if we are to combat poverty effectively, we must launch a social policy offensive quickly, and it must go far beyond short-term measures - such as short-time working. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i welcome the council's agreement on a framework for a european minimum security a minimum income. and we hope that the european commission will come forward with proposals quickly. but the climate crisis also requires us to set clear targets for green jobs, and i want - and i think we all want this together - to use the covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to drive european integration and the transformation of our economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the crisis caused by the pandemic is the most serious for both citizens and member states. it was unpredictable, and it wasn't just economic, social and health challenges that were presented to us. member states considered it important, in view of the pandemic, that as few people as possible lose their jobs and, if they do, that they receive support for this transitional period and be able to move on sooner. i want to talk about what we're doing in hungary to do that. new jobs must be created alongside old ones, flexible working arrangements must be made possible, a healthy working environment must be more closely monitored, work from home and teleworking must be unilaterally regulated. at the same time, in addition to the implementation of job-saving measures, 904 companies applied for the competitiveness programme launched by the hungarian government. the total value of this is over 400 billion forints. this has saved 154 000 jobs. the traditional grants helped 200,000 people, for a total of 354,000 people. the union's role in dealing with the coronavirus crisis has become secondary in the eyes of citizens due to its delayed and slow pace. the only way to improve this is to act quickly, efficiently and in the interests of the member states and their citizens. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, the european commission and the european parliament were swift. we were quick to mobilise the resources we still had available within the european union budget. we have given flexibility to the member states in the use of funds, we have given the possibility of using 100% co-financing, we have eliminated barriers such as state aid, we have strengthened the civil protection mechanism. we have just given the european commission the authority to buy €1.1 billion of vaccine doses, 300 million doses as soon as they are available, with the possibility of going up to 400 million. we moved quickly, and what did the council do? don't we need a vaccine? what does the council do? it reduces research, it reduces the horizon europe programme. do we not need to strengthen a european health programme? we need it. what does the council do? cut the european health program. we need what are strategic and critical investments for the european union. what does the council do? it cuts funding in investeu, which allows for those same strategic investments. we are talking about geopolitical europe, which we support, about the autonomy of the european union, and then we cut back on what would make it possible to create industries for the production of medicines in a structured way, an industry that would make it possible for ventilators to exist. and finally, the recovery fund is urgent. in this same house, in this parliament, we have adopted our opinion which allows the european commission to go to the markets. what has the council done? he hasn't made a decision since september 16th. what is the council waiting for? it's urgent to decide and move on to the recovery fund.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but it is not enough to say it; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we are now experiencing the second wave of the pandemic, with even greater economic and social impact, going beyond the economic sector. workers, households, businesses, vulnerable groups, women, children, education, culture and many others have been affected and need our immediate support. the european union has, however, with some delay, initially announced substantive and ambitious proposals to deal with the effects of the pandemic, as presented by the commission and the european council. for example, a pan-european minimum wage as a minimum protection measure for workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this means in practice 'mitigating the economic and social impact' of this unprecedented and emergency situation, and creating resilient economies and social systems through investments in particular in public health. the attempt to exploit the pandemic to impose small memoranda on the member states is reprehensible. the role of the european central bank is equally important and decisive for the real economy. the role of the european parliament in the response to the pandemic must be enhanced since we are representing the european citizens. finally, mr president, this pandemic has shown us one more thing: what has been agreed must be respected, even if some strong member states do not agree. if there were a european deposit guarantee, we would have much more possibilities and tools at our disposal today.
madam president, the economic and health crisis resulting from the covid-19 crisis is a deep and lasting crisis. the recent resurgence of the epidemic confirms that its consequences will be spread over time and that the peak of the economic crisis is still to come. we also know that the health crisis, like the economic crisis, impacts the territories very differently. i would also like to stress the particular situation of island areas, which are the most vulnerable to this crisis. this vulnerability is due to the proportionally very high level of tourism in their economies. it is also due to the fact that the islands are highly dependent on supply chains, which are themselves weakened by the fall in tourism-related revenues. both for shipping lines and for airlines, for example. these sectors are the most affected and the collapse of the incumbents would mechanically generate the collapse of trade and thus an even greater economic shock. europe must therefore pay particular attention to the impact of the past and future economic crisis on the islands and the various recovery tools must provide for specific means to be applied and the usual state aid rules to be relaxed, as soon as an economically vital link is threatened.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european commission has a great responsibility to establish the most objective and clear criteria possible to help the states decide what measures to take against covid at any given time. unfortunately, he didn't, even though we asked him to at the beginning of the pandemic. criteria based on reliable and transparent scientific indicators and data: infection rate, number of positive cases, indicators of regrowth, employment rate in intensive care, when and how to lockdown, when to close bars and restaurants, whether a curfew is necessary. these are decisions which have serious consequences for the health, life, liberty and economy of all, and we must not politicize these decisions, we cannot make them the subject of a partisan battle, as is happening in spain. there, the management of covid has become a political battlefield, followed with indignation by the rest of the eu countries. why is it so difficult for spanish policy to deal with this crisis in a mature, responsible and intelligent way, as so many other countries in the union are doing? perhaps the fact that spanish gdp is projected to fall the most in the union has something to do with all this? it is true that the spanish economy is heavily dependent on tourism, but so is the italian economy. and now the difference between spain and italy, both economically and in health, is significant. some learn from the past, and others seem to repeat their mistakes.
madam president! i think the european union, as a community, has learned a lot during the pandemic. the beginnings were very difficult. the severity of the situation and the speed at which the virus is spreading has surprised us all. but we quickly became partners. extraordinary measures have been taken. in difficult circumstances and at a rapid pace, we decided to maximise budgetary flexibility and provide member states with support on an unprecedented scale. so we have a number of instruments that are already working. unfortunately, we cannot fully address the crisis and the impact of covid-19 at this time, as the pandemic is still ongoing. all of europe is now facing a second wave of infections. further tightening of social and economic life is being introduced. the principle of cooperation and flexibility should therefore remain our overriding concern. the union must respond on an ongoing basis, directing aid to where it is most needed, because not all areas and not all social groups face similar problems. like many other crises, this one carries a huge risk of widening inequality. we have to make sure that no one is left behind. support for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, is essential to prevent mass redundancies and unemployment. we should also support sustainable and long-term investments, for example in the high-tech sector, which will help the union get back on the path to growth. however, social aspects are equally important, such as systematically strengthening care for older people who are at particular risk.
madam president, looking around us, the room is mainly empty. we can see that the pandemic is far from over. in fact, it is gaining strength. while we are anxiously waiting for a vaccine, the situation for citizens and businesses is becoming more and more serious. youth unemployment has soared, businesses are struggling – many won’t be able to survive the second wave – and the most deprived need our help more than ever. a recent survey in luxembourg found that almost 60% of people who needed help were below the age of 40 and 39% were single parents. this house passed a resolution in april which addressed these problems. we must live up to that resolution. we need to maintain jobs and provide liquidity to enterprises, especially smes. we need to help the most deprived. we must support all of them and provide help quickly. the european parliament is standing up for citizens but i say to the council and the commission: you hold the power to act. you must step up and show how strong our union can be.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you, and i would like to thank all of you for this exchange of views. you know, this complex reality can be perceived in different approaches, but for the european union, the normalisation of relations between israel and the countries of the region is, all in all, a welcome development which represents a positive hope for the future. but as i said, and i repeat at the same time, a just and lasting peace in the middle east will require also progress in relation to the israeli-palestinian conflict, and there, further actions will be involved. our role is to continue reaching out to the parties in the region. yesterday in my conversation with minister ashkenazi, when the foreign affairs minister of the palestinian authority came to the foreign affairs council, we encouraged both to re-engage and have also signalled our willingness to move ahead in our bilateral relations with both. we continue thinking that a two-state solution is the only viable – difficult, but the only viable – solution, and a lot of work is still required in order to bring, at the same time, security to israel, freedom to the palestinians, and peace and stability to the region as a whole. these deals and the normalisation of their relations have to be considered in the complex reality of the zone. well, the united arab emirates and bahrain have never been, technically, at war with israel, so to call that a peace agreement without having had a war may be an exaggeration. but as i said, in any case it’s a positive approach that reflects a somewhat transactional rather than transformative approach, and it has to be understood in the context of the growing strategic rivalry between the emirates and the kingdom of saudi arabia and turkey, and the wider tension in the eastern mediterranean, and maybe this strategy will reflect a deeper polarisation in the arab world, where mostly sunni arab states consider iran, along with political islam, as the more serious threats in the region and are thus likely to engage in a deeper cooperation with israel. in this context, a new regional paradigm has been emerging, where a peace deal is no longer a precondition to normalisation, and both the kingdom of saudi arabia and the emirates have developed a narrative which describes normalisation as a driver in the israeli-arab confidence-building process, creating a more conducive environment for a two-state solution. on the other hand, it is clear that this normalisation comes after other strategic considerations, such as gaining military (f-35 fighters for the emirates) or economic advantages, economic deals with the emirates and bahrain, or for sudan, a major gain to get out of its international isolation by being taken off the list of state sponsors of terrorism, which is a major win for sudan. its economy is on the verge of collapse and badly needs outside investment. all these things, for sure, have been taken into consideration in these kinds of agreements. about the demolition by israel of palestinian structures: yesterday i had the opportunity, as i said, to talk about it with the foreign affairs minister of israel. for sure i didn’t convince him, and he didn’t convince me with their arguments and reasons, but we have reiterated that we consider these activities illegal from the point of view of international law. we reiterated our call on israel to halt such demolitions. this confirms a regrettable trend of confiscation and demolition since the beginning of the year, which constitutes, for sure, an impediment towards the two-state solution but also to the improvement of the bilateral relations between the european union and israel. i am working on the prospects of holding again meetings of the association council that has not met in the last eight years, but for many member states, these kinds of activities – demolitions, settlements – are strong impediments to this meeting taking place. israel knows very well the position of the european union, and i reiterated it yesterday in my talk with the foreign affairs minister.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. – i welcome the abraham accords signed on 15 september 2020 between israel, the united arab emirates and bahrain. this is a fundamental step for the stabilisation of the middle east, the red sea region and the horn of africa. in this context, i also welcome the united states’ efforts to facilitate a solution and help restoring peace in the region. i think we all welcome israel’s commitment to suspend plans to unilaterally annex parts of occupied territory in the west bank. in the complex reality of the region, it is equally important to pursue a negotiated and viable two-state solution to end the israeli-palestinian conflict. we should use this momentum to work on this fundamental issue. i call on european diplomacy and on the international community to remain committed to the resolution of the long-lasting conflicts in the region. we should keep advocating for a two-state solution and more actively pave the way for dialogue and cooperation in the region and, if necessary, by rethinking eu’s strategy.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on combating impunity for crimes against journalists worldwide (2020/2826 ((rsp)). i would like to inform members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by the parliament's liaison office in the member states are foreseen.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank you for this opportunity to talk to you tonight about the fight against impunity for crimes against journalists around the world. i would like to speak in place of the high representative, josep borrell, of course, and i fully agree with him on what i am about to say. as the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists reminded, in some countries the already difficult situation for journalists is being exacerbated by the use of the pandemic as a pretext for additional restrictions on media freedom. journalists play a fundamental role in the functioning of democracies. they help ensure accountability of those in power through the provision of timely and factual information. the commission has said many times that democracy is fuelled by information. in other words, without information, democracy cannot work. unfortunately, across the world journalists face intimidation, violence or abuse, often putting their lives at risk. disturbingly, impunity for abuses and crimes against journalists and media workers remains widespread, reaching 90% of cases in some countries, according to a unesco report in 2019. we follow with concern reports of journalists being placed in detention without trial, the closure of media stations, and internet shutdowns in many countries. in this troubling context, the eu has stepped up its action. in all relations with other countries we have always been clear on the key role of unrestricted media and civil society and the need to protect human rights defenders, many of whom are journalists. our eu delegations around the world have strengthened their response to attacks against journalists. a handbook on journalists' safety has been distributed to all delegations. the delegations are producing or coordinating public statements and social media interventions to give visibility to eu support, observing court cases, identifying cases requiring special protection. in the last 12 months the eu has supported over 425 journalists with emergency grants, temporary relocation or support to their respective media outlets. dedicated programmes have been operating in many regions for some time, with a total amount of support beyond eur 180 million. one example is the save journalists programme, run by western balkan journalist associations. recent programs include covid-19 response in africa to gather available information, which brings together organizations such as deutsche welle akademie and reporters without borders to build resilience of journalists in africa. similar programmes are being finalised for asia and latin america. the safety of journalists is at the centre of eu advocacy for media freedom in intellectual fora and bilateral dialogues. we keep recalling the obligation to protect and promote freedom of opinion and expression and offering collaboration. we also work with the council of europe, the osce and unesco, and we want to intensify this cooperation. in a similar plenary decision last year some priority areas were mentioned, on which we are making progress. as regards media freedom monitoring, the eu supports the projects of the centre for media pluralism and media freedom and of the european centre for press and media freedom, including its rapid response mechanism. as regards opposition to strategic lawsuits against public participation (the so-called slapps), eu services are formulating a common approach. the next steps are to establish, first, a network of lawyers and media specialists to exchange practices and know-how regarding slapp cases, and second, a focus group on legal and financial aid to identify legal and practical solutions. on a more systematic fight against impunity, apart from the already mentioned support, protection of media independence and journalist in the member states was a key factor in the analysis that we did in the first annual rule of law report, which is at the centre of a new rule of law mechanism. support to the reform of justice systems and the rule of law remains key in our external cooperation in over 70 countries, with more than 2.76 billion spent between 2007 and 2017 in 10 years. in the future we will continue to work on ending impunity for crimes against journalists with two important tools: the eu action plan on human rights and democracy for the period 2020-2024, and the forthcoming european democracy action plan. as you can see, this topic is paramount to our work on the protection and promotion of human rights, and as the examples i mentioned clearly show, we totally agree, and join forces, with your parliament on such an issue. and i want to add that, of course, it is very important - i have said about the rule of law annual report - to do the job at home to be able to organise our action outside the european union. thank you for your attention, and i'm looking forward, of course, to your debate and maybe also to your remarks and proposals.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, in a world where factual truth seems to be losing its importance, it is imperative to affirm the need for it. protecting journalists is affirming that need, is protecting the truth. in a world where information and disinformation circulate with equal intensity, investigative journalists support democracy. they denounce corruption and embezzlement and are an invaluable support for people who have been kept in the dark by authoritarian regimes. for their actions of denouncing, they are threatened and put in danger. reporters without borders reports that more than 250 journalists are in detention and 40 journalists have been murdered in 2020. this is unacceptable. moreover, we must recognize this new form of violence against journalists: the use of strategic legal proceedings that drive journalists and media outlets into bankruptcy. our duty is to defend freedom of expression, freedom of the media and freedom of the press. the perpetrators of crimes against journalists must be traced, convicted, punished. impunity is not acceptable. the powerful officials of this world, guilty of crimes against journalists, cannot continue to enjoy all the privileges they have arrogated to themselves and, moreover, to put on the mantle of respectability. they cannot be allowed to roam freely in our countries and to enjoy bank accounts that are not well filled. i am convinced, commissioner, that establishing a powerful mechanism in the european union such as the magnitsky act is also an indispensable step in protecting journalists who risk their lives to reveal the truth to the world.
author. – mr president, today, as for the past one hundred and more days, we stand together with the belarusian people. we support their struggle for freedom, democracy, dignity and the right to choose their own destiny. we mourn the young lives lost, share the pain incurred by the innocent people, and demand justice. raman bandarenka was an art teacher with a character of defender. his last act of bravery was on 11 november when he came out to defend demolition of the square of changes. another peace-seeking person was lost to the violence and brutality of lukashenko’s regime. how long can this last? how many more thousands of brave belarusians need to be tortured and violated until we get our act together? the urgency of our actions is the only thing that matters now. this house has been calling for solidarity, support and sanctions for months. the substantial eu support must immediately reach belarusian civil society. we need to support the documentation and investigation of crimes perpetrated by the lukashenko regime and work together with international institutions to bring those responsible to account. furthermore, our sanctions have to be expanded into targeting lukashenko regime-linked companies and oligarchs. the longer we delay our support and restrictive measures, the more raman bandarenkas will be brutally killed. are we ready to pay such a price for our inaction? zyvie belarus!
author. – mr president, i am sickened by the death of raman bandarenka and the deteriorating human rights situation in belarus. lukashenko and his regime must be held accountable for this terrible situation. across the political spectrum, this house has been clear about its support for the belarusian people in their struggle for freedom and democracy. at the same time, while i welcome today’s resolution and thank my colleagues from the different groups for their support, i believe that action is more important than words. i welcome that the council has finally adopted targeted sanctions against those responsible for the repressions, and i am glad that more sanctions against the perpetrators of the repressions are currently being prepared. we must ensure that all crimes have consequences and that the perpetrators will one day be brought to justice. it is also important that we ensure that the lukashenko regime will not benefit from eu activities and funds. instead, our assistance must be given to the belarusian people and used to support a democratic belarus. the epp group strongly supports the creation of a european parliament high—level mission to help stop the violence, assist in freeing political prisoners, and create an environment for a national dialogue that can lead to new free and fair elections. the parliament must use all its weight to support the belarusian people, and i believe the high—level mission is an important part of that. the european parliament and union must stand with the people of belarus and support the people’s hope to live in a free, democratic, prosperous and sovereign country. this was the hope of raman bandarenka and the other victims of the repressions, of the hundreds of thousands of people who continue in peaceful demonstrations, of the workers who go on strike, and of the political prisoners, including my dear friend pavel sevyarynets, who are kept in appalling conditions. we owe it to these people to be resolute, not just in our words but, above all, in our actions. zyvie belarus!
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. on 12 november, raman bandarenka, then aged 31, died in minsk. he died from injuries sustained in a brutal beating by plainclothes police. the sham election of alexander lukashenko in august was the last straw for the belarusians, but power is now turning a deaf ear when the people are calling for free elections, freedom, and when they are chanting against police violence, corruption, the oligarchic leadership that looks after no one but themselves. month after month, outrageous scenes have been unfolding in the streets and squares. the systematic abuses that have occurred must be investigated and those responsible held to account. eu sanctions against the belarusian authorities are important in persuading lukashenko to change course. political prisoners must be released, the media must be allowed to report, and the growing democracy movement must be allowed to operate freely. we in the eu must be as resilient as the people of belarus. long live the belarusians!
mr president, the belarusian president is losing elections and claims to have won them. the american president loses the election and claims to have won it. so you tell me, white cap and white cap. is that the same thing? no, it is not the same, because in the first case the president remains, whereas in the second case, whatever the outgoing president says, he must give way to his successor. and it is the democratic character of the second country, the united states, that makes all the difference. a resilient democracy cannot resist the worst excesses of its leaders. so it is not enough to remain in admiration of the belarusian people who are shouldering the whole burden, we can of course express our sympathy, stand by them, above all morally, but the key to the problem is held by moscow. we must include putin in better european diplomacy, since he is the only outside power capable of influencing the fate of belarus.
mr president, i want to address my words today to all those brave people, women and men in belarus, who have been protesting peacefully against this brutal, murderous regime since last august, and now it has murdered raman bandarenka. our message is clear: we continue to be with you, you are not forgotten, we are standing in solidarity with your fight for freedom and democracy. colleagues, torture and ill treatment against peaceful protests has become commonplace –is the message of the new united nations (un) report. the recently published expert report by the organisation for security and co-operation in europe (osce) has found massive and systemic human rights violations in belarus. the eu must do everything it can to fulfil the key recommendations by the osce to establish an independent international body for the investigation of human rights violations and to bring the authorities responsible for torture and inhuman treatment to justice. and let me add, it’s out of the question that minsk could host next year’s ice hockey world championship.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. how many people have to die peacefully fighting for democracy and new elections? bandarenka did not survive the brutal reprisals of lukashenko and died on 12 november from his severe injuries. my condolences to his family and friends. we also extend our full solidarity and respect to the thousands of people who have been arbitrarily and unlawfully detained, including members of our left-wing partner party fair world, trade unionists, journalists and so many others, for their courageous stand for democracy and the rule of law. certainly, the protesters have different ideas about the way forward towards a future in belarus that is fair, good work for all and a self-determined life. but it is united by the knowledge gained in the streets: without freedom of expression and participation in socio-political decisions, belarus will not have this future. that is why lukashenko must finally realize that his people did not elect him. belarus urgently needs a peaceful and democratic solution to the current crisis through free and fair new elections and an inclusive national dialogue of all belarusians.
mr president, sometimes we need a face to break the distance. today, this is the face of roman bondarenko. roman was 30 years old, roman was a teacher, he was an artist, he had a family. like hundreds of thousands of other belarusians, he has marked his opposition to the ruling power in a completely peaceful way. and like thousands of other belarusians, he suffered injustice and violence simply for expressing his disagreement. so many of them have been arrested, beaten, tortured, raped. roman died from the blows he received. others like him have died and others have disappeared. we will continue to denounce the human rights violations under the lukashenko regime in this parliament and we will continue to support the belarusian people in their struggle for new free and fair elections. the european sanctions must be extended. support for civil society, journalists and human rights defenders must be increased. our next meeting with the belarusian people will be the presentation of the sakharov prize, an honour for the european parliament. long live the belarusians!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, react-eu is an innovative and crucial instrument put in place by the european union to respond to the crisis, firstly because it provides valuable additional resources, almost eur 50 billion, to strengthen key programmes such as the european social fund, the youth employment initiative, the european regional development fund and the fund for aid to the most deprived, in order to help counter the worst effects of the pandemic and the territories and sections of the population most affected. for italy, my country, this means 11.3 billion euros, the largest share among the countries of the union. react-eu also introduces a series of measures to facilitate the use of european funds, bridging the gap between the resources of the current programming and the budget for the next seven years. the possibility of increasing the advance is therefore extremely important because it will provide liquidity to member states and regions in difficulty, while the increased share of co-financing will ensure a more rapid and complete absorption of the funds available. it would be an unforgivable mistake to leave unused resources in the union's coffers because of bureaucratic complexities or the limitations of structural fund programming, in the context of the extreme need we are in. but we cannot stop here - i mean this - from this extraordinary and temporary instrument a political initiative by the european parliament itself must continue, to make permanent the great initiatives decided on during this period: next generation eu, the common debt, a new european taxation and this innovative approach to the structural funds we are talking about. we can't let this opportunity pass us by.
madam president, react—eu is the immediate response of the european union to tackle the consequences of the covid pandemic, which has hit our citizens and our economy hard. we have freed eur 54 billion in record time in order to support smes through investments into jobs and growth. almost a quarter of the fund is going to social measures, because we see how eu citizens struggle. many have lost loved ones; many jobs are at risk; food banks have been used more than average, even in the wealthiest countries. and we don’t know how long this will take. react—eu will help citizens to have a more positive outlook and some reassurance, but governments must deploy this fund quickly and purposefully. so, dear colleagues, let’s vote in favour of the proposal to help our citizens, because today, together, we will build the foundation of our future in europe.
madam president, no one can deny the evidence that china is committing serious massive human rights violations against the uyghur people. we cannot continue to do nothing and accept a shameful situation committed by a country with which we have strong relations and exchanges. in this regard, the uyghur world congress urged the eu to take action to combat this crime and suggested several measures: sanctions for those mainly responsible for these violations (we know who they are); a cotton import ban from xinjiang uyghur autonomous region; ensuring that companies do not benefit from forced labour; making all eu china investment agreements conditional on concrete advance on the respect for human rights; organising an independent fact-finding mission to xinjiang; ensuring free and unrestricted access to the internment camps for any potential visit; and, of course, organising a visit to the political prisoner ilham tohti, 2019 sakharov prize winner, unjustly imprisoned in china.
madam president, we call them 'detention centres', the chinese authorities call them 'political re-education centres'. in the xinjiang autonomous region, these internment camps are expanding. reports considered credible estimate that more than one million uighurs are detained. in addition, investigations report that uighurs are forced to work in clothing and technology production chains. in march 2020, the australian strategic policy institute denounced the fact that these factories supply a large number of brands, including european multinationals. that same month i asked the commission whether it could provide information on this forced labour and the companies involved, whether products could be identified and, above all, whether some were exported to the european union. finally, i asked whether the commission was considering taking measures if it turned out that such products had entered the european market. in his reply, the high representative expressed concern. he said he had raised his concerns with the chinese authorities - allegations which the chinese authorities have rejected - and wanted to continue to address the issue. finally, he said he urged china to allow observers in xinjiang. you'll understand my disappointment when you read the answer. however, if the recent reports on our national channels and other media are correct, the question is no longer whether the european market is affected, but what the commission will do to respond to products linked to forced labour on our markets. because it seems undeniable that many of the chinese-made masks we wear were made in forced labor, that the cotton harvest used in many of the clothes sold in europe was made in forced labor. so again, what steps will the commission take pending a proposal for legislation on the duty of vigilance? the european parliament is urgently requesting answers.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union has spoken out clearly and repeatedly on the situation of uyghurs, expressing grave concerns about political re-education camps, surveillance and restrictions on freedom of religion and belief. as hr/vp borrell mentioned during the debate on the situation of the uyghurs one year ago, the policies applied to xinjiang appear disproportionate to the stated aim of fighting against terrorism and extremism. the conclusions of united nations experts expressing serious concerns are, regretfully, still valid. during the past year, a number of reports have brought to light worrying allegations that uyghurs and other minorities in china are subject to forced labour and forced labour transfer schemes, as well as forced sterilisation and forced birth control. they add to the gravity and magnitude of concerns we have already expressed. eu leaders raised these concerns in their meetings with chinese leaders this year, at the eu-china summit on 22 june and at the eu-china leaders’ meeting on 14 september. we also issued a comprehensive statement during the last un human rights council under item 4: debate on human rights situations that require the council’s attention. we clearly highlighted the need for meaningful access to the region for independent experts. we will continue to call on china to uphold its national and international obligations and to respect human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, especially in xinjiang and tibet. defending human rights and combating forced labour are priorities for the eu. as a key trading partner of the eu, china should ensure that business activities in its territory meet international standards on labour rights and responsible business conduct. we expect the chinese authorities to implement those standards across all sectors of production and at all levels of supply chains. responsible business practices by european companies working in china play a very important role. while the commission is working on a legislative proposal on sustainable corporate governance, the eu already has mandatory standards in some sectors and actively promotes international guidelines. european companies are already encouraged to implement effective due diligence practices across their supply chains. the commission and the european external action service will continue working with companies to underscore the importance of taking up international due diligence guidelines in all aspects, including human rights. the new eu global human rights sanctions regime, adopted on 7 december, enables the eu to forcefully stand up for human rights. it allows the eu to target human rights violations and abuses worldwide, irrespective of where they occur. the regime does not contain any listings yet. however, we expect discussions on listings to start soon. i thank you all for your engagement in this debate and your contributions to further increase the awareness on this matter.
author. madam president, the case of nasrin sotoudeh highlights the extremely precarious situation of women in so many countries around the world where sharia is upheld as law. the scandal of the lawyer sentenced to 38 years in prison, in particular for showing herself without a hijab, is not specific to iran. this is evidenced by the trial this week before a special anti-terrorism court of saudi feminist activist loujain al-hathloul after two years of detention punctuated by, according to her relatives, ill-treatment and humiliation. the scandal did not stop saudi arabia from hosting the virtual g20 summit last month, illustrating the permanent double narrative of western powers on human rights and women's issues. if there is one merit to today's debate, it is that it reminds us that at a time when anyone who rejects certain practices of another age is being subjected to a bad trial for islamophobia, the most basic freedoms of women are, alas, not always obvious.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, what is it? the human rights situation in iran is very serious. nasrin sotoudeh, sakharov prize laureate lawyer, human rights defender, children's defender, women's defender, journalist's defender this courageous woman who has devoted her professional life to helping people for 15 years is sentenced to prison. now she, who has given voice to so many others, needs our voice. we need to show that we're on her side, and that we demand her immediate release. we also demand that iran stop its attacks on iranian dual nationals. we see scientists, journalists, environmentalists being imprisoned. one of those we feel very deeply for and who we particularly highlight is dr. ahmadreza djalali. his family is suffering, he's suffering, he's facing a death sentence. we demand his release and we want to see the commission act in support of his case.
author. – madam president, ever since i heard the horrible news that the execution of djalali was a matter of hours or days away, i have thought: what more can i do? i wrote letters, i spoke to the ambassador, but nevertheless. now we finally have this resolution, and it sends a strong message to iran. we have the new magnitsky act and we will use it if djalali is not freed. i’d like to convey a message from djalali’s wife, with whom i spoke yesterday. she says: ‘ahmadreza is nothing but an innocent scientist and father of two children. he worked to improve the lives of others through his research. if he is executed, nothing can bring him back. so please, put all your efforts in and make sure he’s freed before it’s too late.’ colleagues, let us vote in favour of this strong resolution and make sure it’s not too late.
author. madam president, nasrin sotoudeh is back in prison. her crime: as a lawyer, she defended the rights of women, children, religious minorities, journalists, artists in iranian courts. the iranian authorities sentenced her to 33 years in prison and 148 lashes for this. we, the european parliament, have awarded him the 2012 sakharov prize for his efforts. nasrin is a particularly brave woman and deserves our support, as she has supported those who need her. she did it at the cost of her freedom. we will continue to support her until the iranian authorities release her. nasrin sotoudeh has always been committed to the death penalty not being pronounced, not being carried out. just five days ago, journalist rouhollah zam was executed by hanging. the iranian supreme court's decision had been made only four days earlier, based on dubious charges and forced confessions. rouhollah zam had been granted political asylum in france and was kidnapped from iraqi territory to be taken to iran. the execution of rouhollah zam is a flagrant violation of international law and human rights. there is also ahmadreza djalali, this iranian-swedish doctor, university professor in brussels and italy. subject to death threats against himself and his family in sweden and iran, he was accused of espionage. confessions were extracted under torture and he was sentenced to death. he's waiting for his imminent execution. we call for urgent intervention by the european union and the member states in the face of the iranian authorities in order to free ahmadreza djalali. i named three people, one imprisoned, one executed, one on death row. for these three and for many others named in our resolution, how many anonymous people have been arrested by the iranian authorities for expressing their views, for defending freedom of thought, for refusing to submit, for simply protecting another person who did not want to be part of the imposed mold? we condemn in the strongest terms the violations of human rights in iran, the arbitrary detentions following peaceful demonstrations, the detentions of journalists, human rights defenders. we demand that iran respect the rights of prisoners, the right to a fair trial, the right to choose their lawyer. we call for the implementation of the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which iran is a party. we simply ask that iran respect human rights, the human dignity inherent in all human beings, equal for all men and women. the european union must work to use all the means at its disposal to persuade and induce the iranian authorities to change their practices.
