vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to say that i heard everyone loud and clear. very rarely do you have an almost unanimous opinion in the debate as you (the members) demonstrated this afternoon, and i share your view that despite the efforts of the commission to foster greater harmonisation and to push for sustainable products, in this case, it didn’t work as we expected. i would really like to underline the fact that the lack of progress was not because of any fear of any company in the world, but we’ll be looking for the best way in which to proceed further. after listening to your debate, i would like to assure you that for the commission, consumer convenience, reduction of electronic waste, safety and interoperability will very clearly be our guiding principles. at the same time, i would join your call to industry for it to do its utmost to accelerate innovation, bringing new, more performing products to the market for the benefit of consumers and for the benefit of our environment. we also have to acknowledge the fact that the voluntary approach in this case did not meet your expectations and it did not meet consumer or our own commissions expectations. i agree with all those members of the european parliament who have been very clear on this, starting with ms thun und hohenstein and ms schaldemose, but i would say almost every member of the european parliament who intervened in this debate. i would like to repeat the message to the industry that its’s never too late to come up with suitable proposals, but in this case, after so many years, we have to consider the legislative approach. the radio equipment directive is one option to take a certain type of regulatory measures, but we also intend to analyse other options, including through the ordinary legislative procedure, to ascertain whether a superior cost/benefit outcome could be achieved by pursuing them. i agree with all the members of the european parliament who highlighted the crucial importance of digital sovereignty of europe. i think we see every single day how important this issue is becoming. i also have to add one important element – and the lesson from this approach would be crucial for my work which i pursue on the european battery alliance – because i think that after today’s debate, we can clearly conclude that the sooner we have higher european standards, not only for chargers but also for batteries, the better it would be. this is how we can push our approach to the modernisation of the industry. this is how we can demonstrate our commitment to the sustainability of our products, and this is what we are going to do. thank you very much for your very clear message, with which we will be working very actively in the commission, and of course i hope that we can count on your support for this way forward and the proposals we will put on the table before this house.
in writing. i support a single charging system for portable devices. i would also like to draw attention to the car chargers. there are no fast chargers for electric cars on the direct route between brussels and strasbourg, and 11 electric cars of the european parliament have to go round germany. in doing so, they must draw up an exit plan so that not everyone arrives at the loading point at the same time. in the context of the european green deal, this is certainly neither wise nor sensible.
in writing. ten years ago, the european commission started work on rules for the development of a single charger for all portable devices. unfortunately, the commission's original proposal for electrical appliance manufacturers to agree on a single standard on their own did not achieve its aim, leaving eu legislators to look for other solutions to protect citizens' interests. the european parliament, in its efforts to reduce the environmental and climate impact of the economy and in its advocacy of consumer interests, has refrained from debating this issue. i am asking the european commission to come up with a single framework of rules for a single charger.
mr president, it is deplorable not only that women in the eu earn nearly a fifth less than men, but also that the pay gap has increased by only one per cent over the last seven years. whilst women in the eu are more highly educated than men, it is the latter that hold most of the senior positions in companies. among other things, we need more gender balance in professions. even in western society, the share of women among stem graduates is about twice as low as compared to countries such as tunisia and the uae. we need more women in it, but we also need more men as teachers and culture workers, such as museum curators or librarians, which are mostly less well—paid occupations. meanwhile, better general work-life balance can help in persuading more women to choose jobs that currently require long hours. when discussing the upcoming wave of automation, we as policymakers should keep in mind that female-dominated professions, such as secretaries, are as vulnerable to elimination as male—dominated industrial jobs. we must acknowledge that the gender pay gap is a multifaceted issue. and only by working together and approaching this issue holistically will we move towards solving this injustice.
chairman of the board! commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm a historian by training, so i'm happy to continue this debate. last october 13th, the kremlin announced with great fanfare the seventy-fifth anniversary of the liberation of riga, ignoring the fact that october 13th is a fictitious date, because the real battles with the german army in riga did not take place, in fact the red army re-occupied latvia. the heroic story of the great patriotic war also silences the stalin-hitler pact, the cooperation of the ussr and nazi germany during the first 22 months of the war, and the destruction of the statehood of poland and the baltic states, followed by mass deportations, instead of recognizing and condemning the ussr's complicity in causing the war and the destruction of independent states. the publication of historical facts that are not to the kremlin's liking, such as the 2017 nato video of national guerrilla resistance to the soviet regime in the baltic, is called western support for the revival of nazism. colleagues, the important memory of the second world war is based on a professional, objective assessment of history, focusing on the honor of the victims of war and the opponents of totalitarianism, not on the glorification of war and the poor!
madam president, the current majority of the european parliament is anti-russian. in its desire to attack russia by any means, it gave in to the temptation to rewrite the history of the second world war in the resolution it voted on 19 september 2019. it says that 'the second world war was started as a direct consequence of the infamous german-soviet molotov-ribbentrop non-aggression pact'. there was such a pact. it illustrates the crimes of which the ussr has been guilty throughout its history and which must be exposed. i myself paid tribute in tallinn to the 80 000 estonians who were victims of communism. but to say that this pact was the main cause of the second world war is a distortion of history that i refuse to accept. let the historians write the history, my dear colleagues, the history which will judge harshly your attempt to manipulate it.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, of course my sympathies are with poland and the polish people. poland was occupied by two hostile powers and was divided. the polish people, their true patriots and patriots, fought with their "army of the region" to defend polish independence and their homeland and they should be congratulated. but when we talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the facts of the second world war, we must not be silent about the crimes of the bolshevik regimes. and i'll remind you of some of them because they're being ignored by the people on the left of the room who are still waving the red pentagram flags. let me remind you of the bulgarian motor ship "struma", with 767 jewish bulgarian sailors on board, sunk by a soviet submarine in the black sea. let me remind you, by the way, that bulgaria is the only country that saved its jews during world war ii. let me remind you of the macedonian bloody christmas, when tito's criminal bolshevik regime massacred and sentenced 25,000 bulgarians without trial and deported another 130,000 bulgarians, waving the red flag with the pentagram. these crimes must be remembered, reprimanded and condemned. eternal glory to the bulgarian heroes in macedonia, shame and disgrace to their murderers!
chairman of the board! the russian propaganda effort to distort the history of 20th-century europe is actually part of a larger strategy. they are attempts to undermine european unity by taking us all back to the past. and in the baltic countries, it sounds particularly terrible when they try to justify the molotov-ribbentrop pact and justify the occupation of the baltic states and the partition of poland. such propaganda is based on ultimate nationalism, the search for external enemies, and the spheres of influence of the superpowers. it was precisely to protect against such demons that the european union was created, and today, in some european union countries, authoritarian populists are also taking over, and they find this style of politics attractive. we cannot allow autocracy to divide europe, and therefore we must speak much more loudly at european union level, the story of history based on the european union's fundamental values of human rights, democracy and the rejection of all forms of totalitarianism. the house of european history in brussels is a good example, but it is certainly not enough. thank you.
mr president, it is absolutely true: spending billions of european taxpayers’ money, we should use the momentum and support modern economy, digital economy, green deal first. and probably sometimes we should stick to the principle: do not resuscitate. but my point is – i come from the baltics, from latvia – our country went through enormous, dramatic, economic transition back in the nineties, going from planned to market. and we’ve seen new sectors emerging from scratch. we have seen traditional old sectors collapsing, basically, instantly. and the price for this inevitable transition was tens of thousands of latvians losing their jobs and not being able to get back to the labour market anymore. they were talented, they were educated, but their skills were not demanded anymore. each eastern european nation in the european union has experience like this. the new ambitious mff, paralleled by the even more ambitious recovery fund, must, on the one hand, help us in modernising the economy; on the other hand, help us in modernising skills for those workers who come from sectors which are not that modern.
in writing. the idea of a united europe will no longer be a poetic theme or a utopian vision; it will be a living reality, because the conscience of the people of europe will have understood that this idea is their salvation. these words, spoken in 1953 by robert schuman in the form of a wish during the covid-19 pandemic, are now being used in the present form, as the solution is to be found in transnational cooperation, moving away from the egoistic thinking of the former countries. now, by critically analysing the initial response to the pandemic by member states and also by the european union institutions, we can see that we are able to quickly find a common base of values for effective cooperation. this includes sharing resources to the extent that patients from the worst affected regions of a country are admitted to hospitals in a neighbouring country. we are entangled in a common economic, political and cultural network, which is particularly acute when the sudden closure of borders reminds many of a recent past that seems so far away, yet is unforeseen for others. the freedoms of europe have become so self-evident. the covid-19 crisis is an opportunity to put aside the divisions of recent years, which have cast doubt on the eu's political identity, and to demonstrate mutual trust and confidence through concrete actions. this includes agreeing on a recovery plan with a particular focus on tackling social inequalities and a common vision for the future at the conference on the future of europe, and - as emphasised - leaving no stone unturned. our future is also based on the core values that make up europe: peace and solidarity.
in writing. a comprehensive approach to combating disinformation at eu and national level, as also outlined by the commission. the fight against disinformation must also be a priority objective of european foreign policy. media literacy and critical thinking should be promoted to enhance public safety. media literacy should be part of the standard of school education. at the same time, it is essential to work with all groups in society, with special attention to the elderly, in cooperation with the media and civil society organisations. i believe that media literacy should be given priority in the forthcoming digital education action plan. we need to strengthen editorial independence and quality journalism. the pandemic has promoted the perception of the media as part of the critical infrastructure of democracy, but at the same time has exacerbated market failures that have been observed in the sector for years, particularly by media operating in small markets, including local and regional ones. the eu should increase the funding available to the media sector and address the systemic issues of regulating online platforms. the digital services act should require large internet platforms word holders, which play an increasingly important role in the acquisition and circulation of information , to prioritise high-quality media and journalistic content in the flow of information. i call for the budget for the creative europe programme to be doubled and for the funding for the news media to be substantially increased. the eu should also introduce a digital tax as soon as possible and channel the revenue to support the media sector. at the same time, i hope that member states will make effective use of the instruments provided for in the recovery plan by investing adequate funding in the media as one of the most vulnerable ecosystems.
in writing. – cultural and creative sectors (ccs) were hit particularly hard by this crisis, and they will also be one of the last ones to recover. even when cultural life returns, sanitary restrictions combined with precautions taken will restrict its economic comeback, also due to the worsening economic situation and savings that households implement. according to the commission, the ccs output gap for the whole of the eu this year could be tens of billions of euros. despite this, the main eu culture programme, creative europe, despite the covid-19 outbreak is allocated just eur 1.5 billion and even that is a cut from the commission’s proposal two years ago. in addition to its intrinsic value, culture also stimulates economic growth and even helps sustain other sectors such as tourism. ccs needs targeted support respecting geographical balance. earmarking, in the form of grants, for cultural revival in the recovery plan is necessary. guarantees are not suitable for these sectors given the sudden output loss and the high share of self—employed professionals and small enterprises. the funding should also entail support for media to address the immediate crisis facing the sector as well as to help it grow in the future.
mr president, europe has a unique experience of overcoming the deepest crises and becoming stronger afterwards. actually the european union itself was created as a result of the most dramatic period in human history. right now brexit, covid, economic depression and instability at our borders create both incentives and opportunities to reform the union, to make it a world power: democratic, welfare-based, and climate and carbon neutral. we need a road map now, a clear timetable and commitment from member states to introduce an ambitious basket of own resources, taxing speculators, polluters, the super-rich and multinational corporations. the debate about own resources is the debate about our future in the long term. if member state governments fail, we will end up making ordinary europeans, their children and grandchildren pay for covid, for brexit and for any other crisis we will face, making, at the end of the day, the european union a second-level player, which is the opposite of what europeans dream about and deserve. good luck minister, and good luck commissioner.
mr president, what we are seeing right now is member state governments trying to discuss a pretty short sanctions list. we are seeing an attempt to find a balance between trade, geopolitics and video footage from minsk, where we see innocent women being beaten and humiliated by armed men, who are masked without any identification. and while we witness these political calculations, i still believe that we’ve got measures we can introduce almost instantly to help provide support to the belarusian people. first of all, scholarships for young belarusians. lithuania and poland are doing a lot, but we can still do much more. the visa regime can be made much more liberal for ordinary belarusians wanting to travel to the european union. employment opportunities, especially for highly educated belarusians. the european union has capacities and we can do it fast. we must act. (applause)
in writing. – the collapse of germany’s fintech company wirecard has exposed the weaknesses in the supervisory framework. although arguments are now being made in favour of a single financial markets supervisor at the eu level, it is no panacea. before anything we need to have a well-functioning interplay between national and eu regulators where competencies are clearly marked and there is no supervisory vacuum. this also means that it is first and foremost the duty of national financial watchdogs to make sure that relevant companies are playing by the rules and that these rules are effectively monitored and enforced. if they are failing in their duty, it is the responsibility of the member states to reinforce their capabilities and ensure the necessary independence from any political influence. unless this happens, it is reasonable to expect more wirecard-like scandals in the future which in turn would continue undermining people’s trust in the financial system and may affect the smooth functioning of the single market.
mr president, artificial intelligence is set to unchain the next wave of digitalisation that europe so desperately needs. as past experience has shown, automation creates more jobs, increases productivity and improves the living standards of societies. unfortunately, to date, the eu has been slow in embracing ai. even the discussions are delayed and focus primarily on the potential risks of ai and the need for regulation, as opposed to the enormous opportunities it provides. meanwhile, the development of ai as well as public and private investment in it is lagging behind other regions in the world. to catch up, the eu should turn to soft law solutions for ai and incentivise developers who promote trustworthy ai, as stated in a recent non-paper signed by a group of member states. innovation and proportionality – not restriction – is the way forward.
in writing. – we have seen a systemic crackdown on media following the belarusian presidential elections. journalists are being detained and fined, acts of physical violence are clearly targeting media representatives (including incidents involving gunfire). in addition, non—state newspapers had been denied rights to print and websites had been blocked by the belarusian ministry of information. at the same time, international journalists have been stripped of their media accreditation. in contrast to the ongoing oppression of independent media, russia’s ‘assistance’ is welcomed. russia is providing its so-called ‘media experts’ to replace belarusian journalists and is using financial funds to buy and take over the media outlets and widely used information channels on telegram. this could lead to a situation where only information channels controlled by russia will be available both to the people of belarus and also to international society. despite physical and financial threats, independent belarusian journalists continue to cover the brutal oppression of peaceful protests. i believe that in the current geopolitical situation, it is the eu that should be more vocal in condemning the crackdown on media freedom in belarus. in order to support the free press, the eu should increase the financing available from the european endowment for democracy and through other instruments.
mr president, last week the council met with a very busy agenda: corona, brexit and climate, they were all on the agenda. this week, the commission presented its plans for 2021. great plans for the green deal and the digital transition. but what about the social plans? the blows that the economy is dealing with from the coronavirus crisis, which we know is far from over, and the blows from a possible hard brexit, which is still a few months away, have to be paid for by someone. the pressure is rising. unemployment is rising all over europe. but the bill must not be paid by the employees. we have to make fundamentally different choices now. it is precisely where the pain is greatest that we must invest now: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also need a permanent law on parttime unemployment, because only together can we tackle the crisis.
mr president, more than ever, the citizens of europe are attentive to the political responses of those they have elected to represent them. they want more concrete measures and less proclamations. i therefore welcome the progress made in coordinating the european response to the pandemic, sharing scientific data, linking screening applications and screening strategies, consolidating common quarantine behaviours, reducing restrictions on freedom of movement to the bare essentials. these are life-saving decisions and they're good for the community. they should inspire other issues which the council has to deal with, while continuing to maintain a firm stance in defence of the rights of european citizens in its relations with the united kingdom. preparing, in liaison with the european parliament and the european commission, a rapid deployment of resources for the union's recovery and resilience and economic and social transformation. by endorsing a robust and viable rule of law mechanism and making relations with africa an example of partnership between equals, sharing of knowledge, resources, priorities, with strong involvement of civil society. and, mr president-in-office of the council, with regard to the institutional dimension, of which parliaments and joint parliamentary assemblies are an inalienable part. the citizens are listening, they want solutions. we must be able to make them happen.
mr president, mr michel, i would like to thank you for your reply. it was good that you put africa on the agenda of the recent summit, and it was good that all sides stressed that we are talking about a partnership on an equal footing - what else in these times? but we will only succeed if we take a firm stand against the problems which now threaten our neighbouring continent. president michel, you know, you see and the commission knows that the pandemic is also increasingly taking hold of the african continent. african societies are not prepared, they have weaker health systems than we and many others. are we prepared for this? are we giving the appropriate help? i have my doubts. you know that millions of children are out of school in africa because of covid-19 measures. we're in danger of losing an entire generation. what we need, also as an address to the commission, is a task force, an action plan, so that this generation is not lost. hunger will become an issue, people will die en masse, if we do not mobilize the appropriate resources to provide the appropriate aid. and the global south as a whole will decide whether we have partners for our values, partners for a multilateral world. i am sorry, mr president, but you have said it, and that is the crucial point. do not rest, do not be satisfied with what has been achieved, push us forward! and the commission should go further than its work programme. i am disappointed in this respect, but i ask you to be more active, to speak clearly.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the debate was very much focused on four major topics, the first one being how to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the corona crisis. ms garcía pérez and ms jongerius have reminded us how important it is to bear in mind that this health crisis, this pandemic, also has very dire social consequences, like possible social exclusion and poverty, and how important it is that we put in place policies where no one is left behind. yesterday, in this chamber, i presented the commission work programme for the next year. i would like to reassure the house that we are going to put enormous emphasis and focus on the action plan on the european pillar of social rights, where it would focus on the new european child guarantee and other important steps, which i believe would be very important for the future. we are already working on putting the first foundation stones on a new, stronger health union for europe. we are proposing operational steps on how improve the work of our european medicines agency (ema) and our european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), but also on founding the new advanced research biomedical barda agency, which i believe will help us not only to be at the cutting edge of research, but – if at any time in the future we are faced with the same challenges – will also mean that we have much faster and much better answers. i agree with all of you who have been stressing the importance of citizen—to—citizen solidarity – support, but also responsibility – which we have to show to each of us. we can do much more in the european union. we see how the sure scheme was important for preserving jobs in europe, and we can be encouraged by this first interest in european bonds, which i hope is a good indication of how this instrument can work well in the future, and not only of how we can finance the next generation eu, but also of how we can combine it well with the next multiannual financial perspective. the calls, from many of you, to make sure that we negotiate in an honest and speedy way in order to make sure that we have these two powerful instruments at our disposal as of 1 january 2021 was absolutely crucial. i would like to reassure you that the commission will do its utmost to get the co-legislators closer and to play the role of honest broker. we will be ready to assist in any way possible so that, as of the beginning of next year, we will have all financial instruments at our disposal and we can fund all the operations and all the programmes that we were discussing today. that would, as mr mureşan and ms garcía pérez have been calling for, also comprise new own resources. we are working on a roadmap which would cover a digital levy, a carbon border adjustment system, revision of the emissions trading system (ets) and some other measures which we know are very important, not only from the political and economic point of view, but also from the point of view of making sure that these new own resources will help us to fund the right and correct policies for the future. i would say that almost every member of the european parliament who intervened today addressed the very important issue of our future partnership with our friends in the united kingdom. i think that this debate clearly demonstrated strong trust and support for our chief negotiator, michel barnier. it’s well deserved, and, as they say in his country, bien mérité. i can assure you that president von der leyen, myself and all our services are ready to work for a fair deal up to the last minute. we know – and we listened to your very loud and clear position – that we are interested in this unprecedented partnership – the deepest that was ever negotiated – but not at any cost. therefore, regarding the concerns of mr bourgeois, mr scholz and others on fisheries, i would just like to tell you that, without a fair deal on fisheries, there will be no fair deal on a trade agreement. it’s part of the deal. we know that, and this is how we are going to negotiate. at the same time, i totally subscribe to the calls for urgency. time is really flying by, and every day of lost negotiations is a day of lost opportunities to find the necessary compromises. our chief negotiator and the president – and i was listening very carefully to the president of the european council – have been very, very clear on that as well. therefore. i would again underline that now it’s time for responsibility towards our citizens and towards peace and economic prosperity on the island of ireland. this is what is at stake. this is what we have to bear in mind when negotiating. i would also like to thank you for your support on the proper and timely implementation of the withdrawal agreement. mr cioloş and others made it very clear that there cannot be a new deal unless the last one is properly respected. it is very clear and very simple, and we all should understand it very well. at the same time, i have to say that this monday i was encouraged because we had a good, constructive discussion with the chancellor of the duchy of lancaster, mr gove. we are advancing very well on guaranteeing citizens’ rights, as we promised to uk and eu citizens in the withdrawal agreement. we agreed to maximise and intensify the frequency of our meetings at the level of the negotiators. we have also been providing clear political steer on what needs to be done to ensure that the withdrawal agreement is properly respected, implemented and operationalised. we will be very vigilant at every single step. i know that our british friends say that the proof of the pudding is in the eating. therefore, let’s see how far we progress and what we can achieve between now and mid—november, when we agreed with chancellor gove to see each other again in the form of the next joint committee. i hope that this will assuage the concerns that were presented by mr kelly, mr macmanus and mr hansen. i would like to thank ms keller, mr urtasun and others for your support for our ambitious goal for our climate agenda. yesterday, when i was presenting the commission work programme for the next year, i made very clear reference to the very ambitious fit for 55 chapter in our commission work programme. i think, without any exaggeration, that this is the most ambitious host of measures we have ever presented in the area of climate goals, and i hope that – with your support – we will be able to achieve them. concerning the right focus in the interventions of honourable members, ms hautala, mr bullmann and mr zorrinho on africa. as you know, one of our priorities when we started to work as a commission was to develop our relationship with our african partners, based on the strategy with africa, and i would underline the word ‘with’ because we really want to have a deep partnership. that was behind the first trip of our president, which she took to africa and behind our efforts in development of a deeper and stronger partnership with our african partners. the clear example of this is that, if we are talking about vaccines, we are talking about vaccines for all – including for our partners in africa. i know that africa is something that is very close to the heart of the president of the european council, who very wisely put it up for discussion among the european leaders, and he got a lot of support for that.
president of the european council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your messages. first, a brief word on brexit, because it seems to me that this is a demonstration of the full capacity of the european institutions to cooperate and to express together, as we do, the quiet strength of the european union. we have principles, principles of common sense, principles to which we are committed, and it is within this framework that parliament, the council and the commission, with the very strong involvement of michel barnier, are situated. we will therefore support all efforts by the european council, because we do think that an agreement is desirable, but we will defend the concerns that have been raised by many of you and that i myself have highlighted with michel barnier and mr šefčovič at the beginning of this debate. the second point, which many have rightly reacted to, is the fight against covid-19. we are in the middle of this battle, we must remain fully mobilized. when the battle broke out, from february/march this year, initiatives were taken, decisions were taken. the european commission's involvement on the vaccine issue is essential, but we can see that even if vaccines are developed within the next year, it will take time for them to reach their full effectiveness. and now we are facing, no doubt, the second wave, which imposes tough measures, again, restrictions, with tough impacts both psychologically and economically and socially. that is why we must really work harder, be even more involved in the question of cooperation and particularly, in my view, in the question of tracing, testing, quarantine, intra-european traffic. there is no doubt that in the coming months, even if vaccines are available from next year, we will have to continue to use this lever to roll back this threat, which is a serious threat to europe, to our citizens, to our businesses. that is why, as dacian cioloş has pointed out, we have indeed considered that, at each european council, at the level of heads of state or government, the issue should be debated, raised, discussed in order to try to give the necessary sound impetus to this subject. moreover, since the outbreak of the pandemic, whether by videoconference or in physical meetings, this point has been systematically debated and discussed at the beginning of each european council meeting. the third point i would like to mention following the questions on this subject, which i understand, is the situation in the eastern mediterranean. i have been a member of the european council for almost six years now, and i have been its president for less than a year. for the first time, a few weeks ago, we had a thorough strategic debate - almost eight hours of debate! - which focused on this eastern mediterranean issue, to really have all the nuance needed on the subject. yes, we must be firm in defending and upholding the sovereignty and sovereign rights of our member states! this is the firm and unambiguous message that is being addressed. we also want to make this dual approach possible with a positive agenda, as positive as possible, provided that there is an end to unilateral provocations which are unacceptable. we are also in constant contact within the united nations, because we know that we have a role to play in the cyprus problem and the necessary settlement of that problem. rest assured that as president of the european council, i will continue to work to build a european consensus for a stronger, more ambitious and more firm geopolitical strategy to defend our values and to win the interests for which we are all mobilized. i am glad that many of you have raised the question of africa, mr bullmann, and others have also raised it. i am glad of this because i do believe that this neighbouring continent is, for such natural, such obvious reasons, a continent for which we must mobilise. we must commit ourselves to an ambitious alliance. this means that investment issues, infrastructure issues, the green deal for europe, and probably also the digital agenda, education issues and health systems, which are under severe pressure in the context of covid-19, must be the subject of our mobilisation in a partnership of equals, marked by mutual respect, defending the values to which we are committed: the rule of law, the protection of human rights. i too see this as a matter of common sense. we must all work hard to try to meet this ambition. many have rightly raised the climate issue. i would like to avoid any misunderstanding between us. let my presence in this house be an opportunity to perhaps correct some misunderstandings. it was not our intention to take a decision on the 2030 issue at this summit. i fully assume that i was considering and i am considering that we need a strategic discussion, not a discussion today on the issue of drafting and the exact country-by-country ambition. we will have to take this decision as soon as possible, hopefully by the end of the year, but this strategic discussion was the necessary step, the necessary step with the involvement of the european commission, which we will need. i found it is an important point to highlight that there was a trend towards support for the 55% proposal put forward by the commission, but with concerns in terms of national impacts. hence the conclusions which highlight this mobilisation of the commission with the member states, especially some of them, more directly concerned by the concern of the starting point. the aim, as you can see, is that each member state, when it commits itself, can actually be mobilised to implement the commitment, to produce results. i can assure you that i will be very much involved personally, because i believe that this is a key point so that we can take a decision on this matter before the end of the year at the next council meeting in december. i have already had the opportunity to say how fully convinced i am that this green ambition for the european union is a key ambition. we are consistent, which is why we have also activated more of what i call "climate diplomacy". i am pleased that less than a year after this historic decision - in my view - of the european council on climate neutrality by 2050, less than a year later, therefore, we are seeing the first steps: china for 2060 and south africa have spoken. we are not naive, it is not enough, but it shows that the strength and the regulatory power of the european union must be put at the service of our values and the interests in which we believe. this is the direction we want to take. finally, a word on a key issue, which many have mentioned: the next european budget and the recovery fund. i do believe that we must draw on the creative power that is the magic of the european union to find an agreement as quickly as possible in order to implement it. i would simply ask you, with the utmost delicacy, the utmost courtesy and the utmost respect, to say everything when we are debating the figures, to explain all the elements. i of course respect the european parliament's position that, in its view, the amount proposed by the council in terms of the mff is not sufficient. it is very legitimate for the european parliament to take this view and i respect it, but we read that massive cuts have been made in erasmus, in the innovation funds, in the defence funds: please specify, when you speak of cuts, what you are referring to when you speak of these cuts. if this is compared to the commission's proposals - very legitimate and very respectable proposals - that is one thing, but if i compare it to the resources mobilised today, never, never in the history of the european union have so many resources been made available! 1.8 billion for the next few years for erasmus, for innovation, for digital, for the climate issue. in terms of stimulus funds, it's much more, proportionally, than what china and the united states are doing. i therefore respectfully and courteously ask the european parliament to present, when these questions are debated, the overall picture as proposed to it by the european council. i look forward to continuing to engage with you in the service of the european union.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed. the spanish delegation welcomes the council's recommendation to coordinate in a clear and precise way the measures affecting free movement between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet. the dse offers its full support to brexit negotiator michel barnier for the final months of negotiations with the uk which are expected to be complicated to a great extent due to the irresponsible attitude of british prime minister boris johnson. a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
in writing. as has been emphasised on several occasions today, the world is facing a health crisis of unprecedented proportions. it's almost a year since the beginning of this crisis, but there's no end in sight. therefore, there is a need for even greater coordination of action and response to this crisis at eu level. first of all, it is necessary to improve coordination between member states in relation to the restrictions that are being introduced and that directly affect the lives of our people. all actions on coordinated measures during quarantine, cross-border cooperation on traceability of infected persons, testing strategies, mutual recognition of tests and many other actions need to be strengthened. indeed, the commission is already doing a great deal of work to ensure that the necessary quantities of vaccines are procured, and it is now crucial to take decisions that ensure that our citizens have access to affordable vaccines when they are on the market.
in writing. at the european council last week, the heads of state or government focused on eu-africa relations, in the face of the overwhelming global covid-19 pandemic situation, which appears to be worsening across europe. solidarity and close cooperation in the fight against the global covid-19 pandemic are crucial. stability in africa is a common goal, a prerequisite for a viable future. it requires cooperation in both the short and long term. we need to work with our african partners to combat illegal migration, to combat human trafficking and to return and reintegrate illegal migrants. the key to africa's future is to stop mass migration, which is the way generations are lost. we must give these young people a future, we must not let these countries go to waste. improving the conditions and wages of young workers in their home countries, providing them with adequate vocational training and supporting their entrepreneurial skills is the only way to prevent further emigration and to ensure that young people return home. unfortunately, christians are still facing serious discrimination in some parts of africa, and it is regrettable that the council conclusions do not address the problem of discrimination on religious grounds, specifically in the protection of persecuted christians.
in writing. the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed. the spanish delegation welcomes the council's recommendation to coordinate in a clear and precise way the measures affecting free movement between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet. the dse offers its full support to brexit negotiator michel barnier for the final months of negotiations with the uk which are expected to be complicated to a great extent due to the irresponsible attitude of british prime minister boris johnson. a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
in writing. as we face one of the worst crises in our history, brussels continues to repeat the same mistakes. the approach to climate change remains ideological and completely inadequate to provide european citizens with the answers they need. between unrealistic targets and unrealistic forecasts, the only effect of these policies will be to make our already struggling industrial sectors less competitive, without achieving full environmental protection. the geopolitical situation also remains fragile: in recent months turkey has been at the centre of the diplomatic scene, with its constant aggression against member states such as greece and cyprus. nevertheless, the eu continues to pour funds into the country and condemns erdogan only in words, showing as usual little consistency. the credibility of the european institutions is also being eroded in the management of the economic and health crisis. negotiations between the council and parliament to reach an agreement on the recovery fund are at a standstill and, as widely expected, no concrete aid will reach italy before 2021. recovery requires immediate action: the italian citizens cannot afford to wait for the slow timing of the european union.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by mr schuster, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the economic policies of the euro area for 2020 (2020/2078 (ini)) (a9-0193/2020) and the report by mrs klára dobrev, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the employment and social policies of the euro area in 2020 (2020/2079 (ini)) (a9-0183/2020).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs. it was not always easy, especially since our original positions were very different, but we tried to find a compromise because it is important that parliament should give an opinion on the question of the european semester. we agree that in the future we need an economic policy that takes into account both the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic and the challenges of climate protection, growing social and regional inequalities and digitalisation. the world has changed in the last twenty years and policy must face up to these new realities. what new realities am i referring to? the coronavirus crisis has had a worse economic impact than the 2008/2009 crisis. we have so far succeeded in providing a european response to the crisis in solidarity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. the coronavirus crisis is a symmetrical shock, but its impact varies from one member state to another. this will also have consequences for the debt targets set. some of these objectives, which were set at the beginning of the 1990s, will not be able to remain unchanged. my view on this is clear: we will need rules to limit public debt in the future too, but unrealistic and unattainable targets do more harm than good. another reality is that even before the crisis, the level of public and private investment was too low. this has severely limited the growth potential of european economies. meanwhile, the demands of climate change have also been added a consistent climate protection policy requires additional public investment of three-digit billions annually. we must ensure that these investments in the future can be made and do not fail because of the debt brakes or restrictive fiscal policies. this is also a matter of generational justice, because failure to invest today, especially in climate protection, will result in devastating damage and will put a double burden on future generations. we have therefore stated in the report that we need a review of the economic and financial policy frameworks and, of course, a change in the rules depending on the results of the review. we must avoid the mistakes of the past, which have been to stifle growth processes shortly after the end of a deep economic crisis, because debt targets are being absolutized - this must never happen again. we need a tailor-made counter-cyclical policy for sustainable growth, which takes into account the requirements of the sustainable development goals, the european pillar of social rights and the green deal. this means that fair distribution, reducing unemployment and reducing co2 emissions must be central to european economic policy and that economic policy must also become more democratic. all this must be combined with sound budgetary and financial policies. it is not just a question of expenditure, but also of revenue. the report therefore stresses that we must no longer tolerate tax evasion and tax dumping, and we need new tax revenues, especially where only the european level can guarantee fair taxation, for example by introducing a digital tax, a financial transaction tax or a harmonisation of corporate taxation. it is also a good way of actually servicing the european debt we are now taking on. as i said, there were difficult discussions in the committee. despite some differences in starting points, however, reasonable compromises have been found. i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for this.
member of the commission. – mr president, today we discuss i think two extremely timely and important reports. first of all i would like, also on behalf of commissioner schmit, to congratulate joachim schuster and klára dobrev, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, on their outstanding work on economic and social policies. we know that we are facing unprecedented challenges. the human costs and the economic consequences of this crisis are huge. recovery, from the economic point of view, began indeed last may, but uncertainty is still surrounding us and the speed of recovery is slowing. on 5 november i will present our autumn forecast and i have today a few clear messages coherent with the report joachim schuster presented. first, we need a supportive fiscal stance. it should continue. we should avoid premature withdrawal of supportive measures. we can’t risk a double—dip recession. second, the general escape clause will remain in place for 2021, as valdis dombrovskis and i made clear to member states recently. next spring we will assess the situation. third, we should use nextgenerationeu to transform our economies, not to go back to normal but to build more sustainable, resilient and competitive economies. we increasingly see the social consequences of this crisis. employment has been falling and unemployment is on the rise, even though so far it has been contained by the massive use of short—term work schemes. we are strongly supporting this effort with the sure instrument. you saw the success of our first emission of social bonds yesterday. population groups that were already vulnerable before the pandemic are particularly hit, for example young people, women, and generally all those in precarious jobs, or disadvantaged children held back from benefiting from digital education. mitigating the social impacts of the crisis will be one of the overarching objectives of the recovery and resilience facility (rrf). we would like to highlight three elements which we see as key for success. first, we need a skilling revolution to tap the job opportunities offered in the recovery, and particularly to face green and digital transitions. this is the objective of the recent skills agenda proposed by the commission. second, we have to enhance the quality of jobs – fair minimum wages are an essential element. we want to reduce wage inequality and poverty for the most vulnerable workers. this is why the commission will put forward a european framework for a minimum wage later this month to make sure work pays off. this proposal will fully respect national traditions and the role of social partners in collective bargaining. the third point is addressing poverty and inequalities. one essential element is to eradicate poverty from the start of life. too many children across the eu grow up in poverty, creating barriers for their career and social integration. the european child guarantee, which we will present next year, will make sure that all children, whatever their background, have access to the same services and the same opportunities.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, it is gratifying that we in the economic and monetary committee have once again managed to bring a report to the plenary. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid, but of the commission's being too rigid. on the other hand, i think it has become clear in the negotiations that we no longer have quite that basic common understanding of why the european semester exists. the european semester was created as the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, because, ladies and gentlemen, we can of course do the green deal and the sustainable development goals and everything, but only if we leave the next generation a beautiful globe, but because of the high level of over-indebtedness we have no longer made economic resources available, we have not done the next generation any favors either. if we are to have a single currency, we must have a single currency, and if we are to have a single currency, we must have a single currency, and if we are to have a single currency, we must have a single currency. i can tell you quite frankly that i come from a country where this was the practice in the period after the first world war. this led to hyperinflation in 1923 and to poverty, real poverty, unemployment and then to a dark time on this continent. i warn you, don't just say we have to save the world, no matter what. we must always keep the economy and the ecology in balance, and that is unfortunately the problem we have with this report. i am glad that the committee has managed to find this balance. i hope that will continue to be the case in the plenary. the rapporteur is right to say that we must make a review, we must prepare for the 20s of the second millennium and give the answers. it is no longer possible to answer the questions of the 1990s. but you act as if you already knew the answer before the relevant institutions had even bothered to look into it. so why do we have to face an audit when parts of this house already know what needs to come out? sorry, i don't need to check it then. that is why i am asking you to refocus on what needs to be done to ensure that the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact is designed in such a way that member states do not fall into a permanent debt trap, and then we will be truly sustainable.
president. - if even prime minister rutte and minister hoekstra fall from their austerity creed, something is really going on! when big companies falter, they go out of business. but unfortunately we must not only talk about emergency measures, but also about structural measures. we believe it is time to put people first and not the interests of multinationals. europe is more than a market and more than a market with a currency. it is the challenges we face in the netherlands and in europe to get out of the crisis fairly, leaving no one behind. that's where the labour party wants to go. we want higher minimum wages so that no one has to choose between hot water and hot food at the end of the month. we want to ban zero-hour contracts so that you can make plans and be sure of your income. and we want more affordable social housing, because then startups can really start a future. with support from europe if jobs are on the line because of the crisis. digitalization and climate change can only be managed if everyone can join in. i therefore support amendment no 12 by mr schuster. we need to invest in the opportunities of all of us, not just the happy few. we must get out of this crisis fairly, with binding social targets, so that everyone can be assured of a higher minimum wage, secure contracts and affordable housing.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, recovery from the covid crisis demands rethinking the european economic governance, and the european semester framework can be a good starting point for this. what we in the renew europe have done in this year’s report, is try to combine the existing macroeconomic core of the semester fiscal discipline and healthy debt levels, with the urgent demands of today, like the need for public and private investment, social protection, as well as the need to tackle climate change. let me mention a few issues of great importance for us. first of all, the promotion of reform is still the most important task of the semester. the country-specific recommendations were often extremely weakly implemented. member states should have tailor-made solutions for reform in order to promote competitiveness and growth in all european countries, also using next generation eu money. second, the report urges the review of the existing conditions of the stability and growth pact, since the crisis has shown that there are changes to be made. however, it must be done in a careful way, which would effectively motivate the member states to comply with the requirements of the stability and growth pact. third, the need to tackle climate change, which is already an overarching, horizontal priority. we need to find its proper place in the framework of the european semester. therefore, we urge the commission to develop a climate indicator, which would be supplementary to the existing semester framework. when critically adapted to current circumstances, the european semester can have a real, transformational impact on the european economy, and the current report is a significant attempt to strengthen the semester framework by making it more sustainable, effective and resilient to future challenges.
madam president, i will speak as a member of the committee on culture and education. since the outbreak of the covid pandemic, much energy has been paid to the eu economies and labour markets as a whole, but often not to specific sectors and workers. the culture and creative, as well as the media, sectors have been hit particularly hard, with dramatic income losses and a high rise of unemployment. meanwhile, support for these sectors has been inadequate, both at national and eu level. culture and media cannot simply be bailed out or resurrected after a failure, like other industries. it is deplorable that, during these times when media and culture is consumed more than ever, many of these organisations are struggling for survival. that is why i reiterate the calls for a 2% earmarking of the recovery and resilience facility to the cultural and creative sectors and the media. i strongly believe that a strong news media and well—financed culture must be at the heart of our democracies and the bedrock of the eu’s recovery.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the eu budget 2021 will be the first one of the new mff. it will also become the first sign and symbol of european ambitions for the next seven years. i will start with key programmes. enhancing horizon europe is highly important to boost the digital transformation. this is pretty straightforward. the covid crisis has shown us all how much we depend on technologies – technologies which are both not perfect and not equally available to every eu country and every european. investment in research and innovation must both bring new advanced solutions and narrow the gap between member states, regions and social groups. fighting digital inequality will in future be as crucial as fighting social or any other inequalities we are dealing with right now. as part of the overall mmf deal, the flagship programme horizon europe will receive an additional eur 4 billion for research and innovation – which is great news for european scientists – and that means we have to stand for a corresponding increase in annual allocation for 2021 already. the covid crisis has proved once again that medical workers and healthcare systems are probably as important as military personnel and armies. our enemy right now is invisible and we need medicine and vaccines, rather than guns and bombs, to defeat it. eu4health is the answer to major cross-border health threats and one of the much-needed steps to create a european health union. an additional eur 3.4 billion as part of the mff triples the budget of the programme. we all understand that in order to meet current challenges and to prepare for future ones, we need to increase financing for 2021 significantly. this budget is crucial in order to increase the quality of healthcare systems around europe and their affordability and of course in order to deal with inequalities between member states and regions. another of the enhanced 15 flagship programmes to mention is erasmus+. it is our strategic investment – investment in our youth, in social cohesion, in european integration. it is investment in our values, identity and heritage that we wish to pass on to future generations. the investment means eur 2.2 billion of additional money for the next 7 years, and at least eur 165 million next year. at the same time i would like to outline that europe can afford much more for its values. the 2021 budget is a good tool in helping us in both enhancing and rethinking the way european institutions work during the covid crisis and after it, when the ‘new normal’ will arrive. starting with the european parliament itself, all the institutions are fighting with the challenges of teleworking in 24 different languages, with different quality of internet and technical advancement around the continent. nevertheless, they all work hard, bringing europeans and their ideas together, like for instance the committee of the regions or the european economic and social committee. our experience from previous economic crises tell us, ‘cut down the estimates for institutions’. that is not the case this time. the estimates for the other institutions and agencies take into account both the tasks to be performed next year and the level of possible transformation that each institution may go through, finding the best suitable way to work in future. i wish us all good luck in the forthcoming negotiations with the council.
in writing. – the covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent fallout is unprecedented for people, countries and their economies. unfortunately, in many ways this crisis has also dented our democratic processes. i would like to applaud the impeccable work of our journalists and media organisations in providing up-to-date and important information to the people and in that way contributing in the fight against the virus – and the disinformation about covid-19. as has been stated many times, the best way to fight disinformation is through adequate funding for quality media so as to ensure that independent journalism and media pluralism is flourishing, not stifled. but whilst the media consumption has been on the rise throughout the lockdowns, media organisations are struggling due to subdued incomes from advertising and the general lack of funding which has been ailing them well before the pandemic. failed media cannot be resurrected or bailed out like other industries. it is high time for member states and the eu to address this emergency in the sector so as to ensure that media organisations can continue without undue restraints their important social and democratic function, and that they emerge from the crisis stronger and more resilient.
the author. - the chairman of the board. protests and strikes in belarus against the stolen elections, human rights violations and the overall economic and political uncertainty in the country have continued for well over a hundred days. the belarusian people are clearly and unequivocally stating their position that the state must change and lukashenko must go. therefore, it is not only impossible, but dangerous to talk about establishing dialogue or normalizing relations with a regime that brutally suppresses the self-determination of the people, human rights and freedoms, and actively attacks not only opposition and protesters, but also journalists and the media. the number of protesters arrested is approaching the thirty thousand mark, and the use of violence against the people, we see, is being accepted. the murder of thirty-one-year-old artist roman bondarenko is tragic and reprehensible. we must all be aware that it is the lukashenko regime that has created this lawless and violent environment where the value of human life is degraded. ladies and gentlemen, we must not allow ourselves to be in a situation where the european union becomes immune to developments in belarus. the fact that the protests continue despite the growing repression clearly demonstrates the unwavering determination and willpower of the belarusian people. the people of belarus need our support, just as we - the three baltic states - gained it when we fought for our independence in the late 1980s and early 1990s. the european union and its member states should actively support both independent civil society organisations, independent journalists and media, and artistic and creative freedom as represented by independent artists in belarus. the european union also has the ability to exert not only strong political pressure but also economic pressure, including by suspending any european union funding to the belarusian government and state-controlled projects, as well as actively sanctioning those close to the state regime.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, indeed the promotion of european linguistic and cultural diversity raised by the minority safepack is a noble aim. at the same time, when carrying out the linguistic diversity preservation strategy, we need to look at various aspects, including the risk factors for language survival, as well as the states’ abilities to strengthen their culture and information spaces. similarly, the constitutional, historical and geopolitical aspects of each member state have to be respected and taken into account. by promoting multilingualism throughout europe we have to see the whole picture of the world languages, promotion instruments for ensuring linguistic plurality also need to support those official eu languages which have a relatively small, and falling, number of speakers. we cannot create a situation whereby promotion of a certain minority language within a country leads to the endangerment of the official state language or comes at the expense of other minority languages. what is more, let us not be blind and deaf to attempts by certain third countries to use the minority-language issue as a propaganda tool to implicitly intervene in the internal affairs of the eu member states and spread disinformation, thus trying to undermine societal cohesion or cause friction within the eu.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – mr president, indeed the year of rail is a welcome initiative to raise awareness about the significance of this mode of transport, as well as its economic, social, environmental and cultural aspects. being rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education on the year of rail, there are two points that i stressed in my report. firstly, not all member states have the necessary infrastructure to enable rail connections to the rest of europe. as a consequence, territorial and social cohesion is slower and people and industries are missing out, including education, tourism and the cultural sector. secondly, for the year of rail to be a success, it is also important to promote the historical and present role of trains, railway stations and rail infrastructure, which have been instrumental in shaping regional traditions and identities and are part of europe’s cultural, and in particular architectural, heritage that must be protected and cherished. moreover, during the year, the rail infrastructure can be successfully used as an open space for contemporary art, intercultural dialogue and education of different forms. so let’s look forward to the european year of rail, which puts connecting people at the heart of its mission.
