for the group gue/ngl madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, we all have a place in our homes where there are a considerable number of old and no longer needed chargers. the old practice was that what the manufacturer did, the species did. this was of course very unpleasant for consumers and it created unnecessary and unenvironmental pressure to continue production. in 2014, with the strong support of the european parliament, the eu agreed that mobile phones made for the european market should have a universal charger. the commission was then invited to implement that directive by means of a delegated act. but the commission does not act. the commission is afraid. i don't know if they're afraid of pissing off apple, pissing off the u.s., which will lead to more tariff conflicts, or if the commission is just afraid of enforcing what it agreed it wanted and would enforce. yes, the previous commission had a strong tendency towards spinelessness, but what about the new commission? will it also be afraid, or will it promote a clear, ecological, sovereign european consumer policy that is understandable to the citizens? i personally hope that it will promote what the eu and especially the european parliament have long called for. otherwise, we can hand over the running of europe to multinational corporations. it would be very simple to say no, it would be a very simple act, it would prove that we are pursuing our objectives and let us all press the commission to do so at last.
mr president, it is good that we are talking about the common charger. in 2009, i tabled that amendment in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. in 2009, i proposed this, and in the trialogue both the council, the commission and parliament agreed. ten years later, there's still no common charger. it's very good that we emphasize that it's about waste reduction, but what really disappoints me is that people's dependence on mobile phones is not mentioned. the citizens of europe are now dependent on mobile phones for their security and social contacts. it's a pity no one's named it. today i drove from the netherlands to strasbourg, and then i drive through the ardennes and i see no public telephones anywhere. my battery was dead. what if i had been unlucky, and i couldn't have called anyone, and i would have just stood there, hoping someone would come and save me? phones are vital to people right now. 50plus considers it very important that phone chargers also become universal and we call on the commission to enforce a common charger for everyone and that everyone can continue to use these phones as we do now.
madam president, having different chargers for mobile phones and devices is, first and foremost, a business that brings millions in profits. companies today are not only producing different chargers for different versions of their phones, but on top of that, some of them are now shipping their new models with a slower charger and, of course, a second, faster one is available for an additional price. secondly, this is hugely detrimental to the environment. we have more than 51 000 tons of electronic waste per year coming from chargers. thirdly, this is extremely inconvenient for people, who either have to pay for a charger they do not need, or if they need one, it is because none of the chargers they have at home fit. enough is enough. ten years of inadequate and insufficient self-regulation is evidence that a european universal charger for smartphones is a must. we want to promote european standards, european companies, and the european way of life. well, this is our opportunity. the commission is long overdue on this and must act immediately.
mr president, commissioner, i consider the pay gap to be one of the biggest problems we have in the eu today. i see this as a problem within countries, within companies, and not least between the sexes. being a single mother in the czech republic, for example, where the gender pay gap is the second highest in the european union, is extremely demanding and stressful. the pay gap in particular can lead these women into poverty, either during working life or, in particular, at retirement age. according to eurostat statistics, women have to work more than two and a half months longer than men to achieve the same level of pay. there is no, there is really no rational reason for the gender pay gap. if the european parliament wants to fight for citizens' rights, it must clearly support equal pay for equal work. i will always defend this principle.
mr president, commissioner, in the 21st century we are discussing the persistence of gender pay gaps. the causes are rooted in the way our societies function, where there are persistent conceptions about the division of family tasks, of domestic tasks, about who are the main informal carers, and which lead to women taking on a higher number of hours of unpaid work and conditioning their career choices. but above all, this is due to an ethical reading, or rather, the lack of a real social awareness of the seriousness of this problem. there is a kind of collective complacency about this issue, as if in a list of priorities there were always others that surpass it in moral relevance. and that's why, even though 60 percent of the highly qualified population is female, women are still relegated to management and leadership positions. this is also the case in the agricultural world, where only 30% of farms in the european union are managed by women, almost always in low-paid jobs. such disparities are aberrant and intolerable, and that is why a comprehensive strategy, commissioner, must have one of the major long-term objectives against this form of structural violence in the fight against gender stereotypes, developed from the very beginning within citizenship education in a school context.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am grateful for the dedication and support of the european parliament for this discourse, so thank you all for your very valid interventions tonight. this is a fact-based commission. we act on facts. and the fact is that women are paid less than men, so may i add that it is also a fact that the commission will act on this fact. i want to conclude by recalling that in addition to binding pay transparency measures and tackling the gender pay gap, as was mentioned here, there are other factors which contribute to women not being able to use their full potential and not being remunerated for what they are doing. so there is this new strategy on gender equality which will address other concomitant topics which were highlighted in the president’s political guidelines. we will work to combat and prevent violence against women, including online violence. we also know that there is a correlation between women’s financial independence and abuse and remaining in abusive relationships, so when we are talking about pay, as we did earlier, there are other consequences if this big issue is not addressed as it should be. i also want to see gender balance on company boards and enhanced work-life balance for women and men. again, this affects the quality of lives of women, of men, of our families. i want to see that we pay attention to the gender and broader equality perspective when addressing some of our society’s main challenges, such as climate change and digitalisation. the commission will monitor the implementation of the work-life balance directive in the member states. we will promote take-up of the rights to family-related leave and flexible working arrangements, especially by men, and this will promote a more equal sharing of care responsibilities which is key to closing the gender pay gap. so, as you can see, it is all related and connected. it is also about women achieving their full potential in the labour market, including their full economic potential. it will remove some of the incentives for women to self-select into lower-paying occupations and lower-paying roles within organisations. the strategy, in line with the commitments and the political guidelines of the new commission, will also work on improving women’s positions in decision-making. i will work hard with member states to build a majority to unblock the directive on women on boards. i count on the strong support of parliament. together we can make the gender pay gap history. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the january part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. equal pay for equal work was enshrined as a fundamental principle of the european union in the 1957 treaty of rome. article 157 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union ensures the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value. in other words, in the case of performance pay, the remuneration for the same work is determined on the basis of the same unit of measurement, and in the case of time pay, the remuneration is the same for the same period of work. however, member states are unable to meet their contractual obligations, and we see a difference of up to 26% in pay differentials between men and women for the same work in some member states. the european commission's efforts to put much more emphasis on reducing wage disparities in the future by developing a new strategy are therefore urgently needed. i hope that the commission will make practical proposals alongside the strategy to halt the deterioration of the situation throughout the european union.
in writing. the eu must go beyond declarations to implement strategies that will lead to the full and practical implementation of equality between men and women, because as long as there is discrimination on grounds of sex, the union cannot boast of the principles of equality and equivalence in its territory. the fact that we are still discussing in the european union the need to implement equal pay for men and women is an insult to the union itself and to the european institutions, as well as to the member states. the european union, by definition, must be a place for safeguarding, promoting and promoting equal pay, equality, the elimination of all discrimination, equality and the defence of human rights. the european parliament has been and is leading the way towards the full and unconditional implementation, at all levels, of equality between men and women. the case for ensuring gender equality is a case for all of us and a case for every day, and this fight must be waged at every level until equality between men and women is a fact and a reality for all.
in writing. – when considering the positive leap made on issues of gender balance as a union, significant legislation passed in the past that is currently in place is proving not to be effective enough today in ensuring that the pay discrepancy between genders decreases. without effective pay transparency emanating from eu law, abusive employers will continue to act in defiance of the equal treatment in employment directive. the gender pay gap however, is not only a legislative matter. the gap is real, and it means women do not only have lower hourly earnings, but they work fewer hours in paid jobs and have lower employment rates. this means that legislative change alone will do little without measures across the union to ensure more flexible working arrangements so that they become worker-oriented; and family measures to balance out the disproportions in the hours men and women dedicate to care and household activities. i also urge the new croatian presidency of the council to unblock the women on boards directive as role models are essential to ensure that career progression and the attainment of decision-making jobs may legitimately fall within the realm of female aspirations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs o'reilly on her re-election. his work has certainly been much appreciated by this parliament. as has been appreciated and reported correctly, very well the work done over 2018 in the report we are discussing this evening, a report which again asks, as we did in last year's report, that a transparency register can finally be introduced in a mandatory and legally binding way, so that it is able to overcome the heavy gaps in lobbying. much stricter rules on lobbying and conflict of interest are needed, but also significant changes to make all decision-making processes truly transparent and fully accountable. if the von der leyen commission really wants to change its course from the path of the previous juncker commission, it should take these demands and act accordingly. i disagree with this and this is the only negative note in this report the paragraph in it focusing on the ecb: contrary to what is stated in the text, i believe that the ban on ecb members participating in closed forums, especially if they are organised by or involve banks subject to the ecb's supervision, should be clear.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate emily oreilly on her confirmation as european ombudsman. this is a vote of confidence in the positive work you have done to keep the ombudsman's office accessible to european citizens. i found that in this annual report the european ombudsman spoke about a subject which is very important to me: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the treatment of disabled persons under the joint sickness insurance scheme. i also fully agree with the recommendation to the commission to also review the provision of this scheme so that it is also in line with the united nations convention for persons with disabilities. i also agree with the recommendation on increasing accessibility for visually impaired people in the selection procedures for candidates for european offices. assistive technologies for candidates taking computerised tests need to be implemented as soon as possible. before i close, i would like to thank jude for being our coordinator within the committee, within the socialist group, and the democrats for the commitment and dedication she has always shown. we miss her very much.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you very much for this very rich debate, for all your interventions and i’m glad that i can say that also this discussion has reconfirmed that our work programme reflects our common priorities. i really would like to thank you for all the words of encouragement, for pointing out certain details upon which we have to work even more and also on some of the things that you believe that are missing in the programme and upon which we will do our utmost to work together. i think that the motive with which our president presented her new commission is that this would be the geopolitical commission, which would strive for more, and i believe that with your help, with your support, we can really achieve that. i would like to echo the words of ms niebler and mr marques, who said that to have an ambitious programme is a very good thing, but what would be even more important now is its proper implementation. i found an echo of this call in many of your interventions and i really would like to tell you that we take it very seriously and we hope that with the close cooperation with co-legislators, with you and the council, we can deliver on this programme. ms keller made a very emotional reference to yesterday’s discussion and we’ve all been here and i think that the emotions and the farewell bids to our british friends is still with us. therefore, i think that her question on how to respond to the challenge of yesterday is clearly that we have to build an even better europe, which would be more efficient, more competitive, greener, closer to the citizens. i believe that starting the constructive work on this joint ambitious programme would be the right first step forward to meet these ambitions. to my compatriots, ms ďuriš nicholsonová, who was highlighting the challenges around minimum wage setting, i would like to underline once again that what we are going to propose is to set a framework for minimum wage setting and that we are going to consult widely with the social partners, with our member states, and we would respect, one hundred percent, the national tradition and collective bargaining, but we believe that everyone in the european union deserves a fair wage and that we have to be socially just if it comes to this very basic human right, which is so important for europeans on our continent. on the infringement case against austria, it’s ongoing. we are currently studying the response of austria to our reasoned opinion and we will inform this parliament accordingly once this study is completed. ms aubry made reference to the carbon adjustment mechanism. i would like to reassure her that it’s already in our commission’s work programme for 2021. as i’m sure many of you know, this is a rather complex task. it would require a lot of preparation, a proper mechanism and we have to be ready for quite intense international debate on this issue. we would like to see countries like china and many others who have an emissions-trading (et) system as ambitious as we have, but if this would not be the case, we simply would have to consider a mechanism like carbon adjustment to make sure that we have a level playing field and that we would motivate also other big economies to make sure that they would work on lowering their carbon footprint for their economy and for their products. many of you insisted on the importance of the rule of law and i cannot agree with you more. i think that it’s quite clear that this commission is really committed to ensuring respect for the rule of law equally in all member states. ms de sutter, i also would like to assure you on one very important fact – that the commission will also ensure full respect – and i would like to underline both words – of the charter of fundamental rights in addressing emerging issues such as artificial intelligence and facial recognition. in the context of the statement of mr azmani, thank you very much for your intervention. among other and different constructive observations, you also referred to anti-semitism, which again, we were debating yesterday and witnessing very emotional testimony of holocaust survivors, and i am sure that i do not need to say how much i agree with you and how important this would be for the work of the european commission. mr garicano was referring to the work programme and to the fact that, with the uk leaving, a lot of the universities which have been part of the european union educational area are going as well. but i also would like to assure him that we are looking for ways to maintain good contacts with our british friends within the framework of erasmus, within the framework of research programmes. but on top of that, we want to make sure that the european education area becomes a reality by 2025, and we will work with equal intensity on our skills agenda, where we are going to present our programme and proposal already this year. to ms hayer, i would like to reassure you that, for us, the impact assessment is a very important one. i’m responsible for that and there will be no important legislative proposals without a proper impact assessment being done – because we know that the impact assessment offers very often the best answers to the proper argumentation and the debates we would have, especially with those who are opposing our proposals. to make sure that we will respect full transparency, we are going to establish the interinstitutional evidence register by the end of this year – just to make sure that we will share this information with all of you. when it comes to the issue of poverty, which was raised by several colleagues, we are going to address it through the social roadmap, through the framework for minimum wage setting, as i said, and we are going to work on the children guarantee, which several of you referred to as a very important measure. i hope that with your help and with proper funding, we will restart a renovation wave across the european union. this would not only help us to tackle greenhouse gas emissions but increase the quality of life, especially for all those who are living in social housing, and that through this measure, thanks to energy efficiency, we would reduce the bills they have to pay electricity at the end of every month for heating, cooling or simply using. to mr belka, i would like to say that we are very serious about tax evasion and we will be working very closely with our organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) partners and, if there will be a deal within the oecd, we will do all necessary and take all necessary steps to implement it. however, i also would like to assure you that in the absence of such agreement on the global level by 2020, the eu shall act alone. we just simply will not have more patience to wait for the continuation of avoiding paying proper taxes on the european territories. i know, mr president, that time is limited, but to ms fritzon i would like to say that we will consult very thoroughly with the social partners and respect all prerogatives of this social dialogue because this is how we know we will get the best results. on enlargement, i think that we have been very clear on making sure that we will come with a new methodology. we will have a very important summit in zagreb, organised thanks to the croatian presidency, where we want to bring a new impetus, new energy into this process and our commitment to northern macedonia and albania is very clear, and that’s a priority for this european commission. on the transition fund and the multiannual financial framework (mff), to conclude, mr president, that was the point made by ms bonafè, by mr hajšel and many others, i want to assure you that when you are talking about eur 7.5 billion for the just transition fund, we are talking about fresh money. this is how the european commission presented its proposal. it’s on top of the mff proposals which you already tabled and with which you are so familiar and for which the commission is ready to battle with the council to make sure that we have proper financing for all the ambitious items which we have in our programme. of course, it would be on all of us to make sure that we would use the just transition money where it’s most needed, for the people who need to be retrained, where we need to find new jobs for coal miners, for the people working in energy—intensive industries, to make sure that this transition is fair and that nobody is left behind, whether a person or a city, or a region. i cannot agree more with all of you who’ve been highlighting the importance of an ambitious multiannual financial perspective. mr olbrycht, ms dalli, mr lópez aguilar, ms niebler, all of you have been referring to the importance to have a proper multiannual financial perspective. as you know, we will have an extraordinary summit where this would be the item on the agenda, so let’s hope and let’s make strong arguments towards our heads of state and government that we need an agreement, we need it very soon – because every month that we are late with the mff, we are already putting our programmes in serious danger. once again, mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for all your points. i’m sure that now in the way of structured dialogues with your committees, you will have even more chance to debate all the programmes and all the items in greater detail, and we are very much looking forward to it.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, you have forgotten to answer any of my questions: one on energy interconnections with the iberian peninsula to reduce dependence on russian gas and the other on the cohesion funds. since i have asked two questions and you have not answered any of them, it must have been a matter of time, if you have time, perhaps you would like to say something to the european parliament.
the commission will certainly not fail to answer the questions put. the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the commission has presented a work programme for 2020. the promotion of a social europe must be reflected in future initiatives. it is very important to strengthen initiatives for young people and i am very pleased to see that the commission will present an even stronger youth guarantee to enable as many young people as possible to find work, to study, to improve their skills. only by bringing young people into the labour market can we hope to ensure the long-term sustainability of employment and social protection systems. it is good that the commission has launched a public consultation on the minimum wage in the member states. indeed, this proposal is eagerly awaited by our citizens, especially those who are increasingly disadvantaged and at risk of poverty, even in employment. this is not the way europe should be. we are also looking forward to the gender equality strategy we have been asking for five years, so it is very encouraging to see the new commission taking the difficult and time-consuming decisions.
in writing. we welcome the european commission's ambitious work programme for 2020 on the basis of the political guidelines of president von der leyen. the programme aims to address the intergenerational challenges we face today, such as climate change, digitalisation and migration. we are particularly pleased with the commitment to implement the european green deal and to improve opportunities for europe's citizens and businesses in the digital transformation.
in writing. – i welcome the commission work programme for 2020. while very dense, it provides us with meaningful inputs we – as co-legislators – need to take into account. much has already been said on the european green deal, whose concrete implementation will start this year. it is definitely our new growth strategy. nevertheless, i believe that it will not work if it fails to entail a strong social dimension. its delivery must go hand in hand with a full implementation of the european pillar of social rights. no european citizen, no european region should be left behind. the fight against energy poverty and the upskilling of workers will be certainly helpful to make the transition towards a clean europe a just one. through its work programme for 2020, the european commission has also pledged to present a gender equality strategy. women are indeed facing crucial challenges and i am ready to stand with the commission to go forward and promote an effective gender dimension throughout all the european policies.
mr president, the small and mediumsized enterprises you mention are in fact some of the more dynamic small and mediumsized enterprises that you are really interested in, not including the selfemployed 'without staff or with one or two staff' whom you regard as a 'structural problem'. over time, it has been shown that any funds left over from the largescale corporations' largesse and given to self-employed people are not able to reverse the impasse of redundancy, wild taxation, debts to the tax authorities, banks and insurance funds. they do not overturn the law that says 'the big fish eat the small fish', and even more so that the liberalization of services and working hours and the regulations of the european union are reinforcing the tendency for the big ones to concentrate. the moderate tax cuts of the new democracy government do not overturn the picture in greece, which shows that the little ones will fight for survival. the only way out is the struggle of self-employed and small professionals, not only for immediate relief from the anti-people policy of the european union and governments, but also for social alliance with the working class and small and medium farmers in order to overthrow their monopolies and power.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we already feel that smes are very important in the commission. vice-president šefčovič, commissioner for industry and internal market breton, commissioner for research and innovation gabriel all feel a commitment to business, and this commitment almost always involves money: horizon, structural funds, venture capital, capital markets union. thank you for the many good suggestions for smis. but i have also learned today - and i would like to thank mr breton for that - that promotion is not everything, financing is not everything, smes need a framework. we need a single market without barriers, we need legislation with little red tape, we need a digital economy with fair and secure access to data as a raw material, we need a green deal with a carbon leakage process and impact assessments, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. sme policy is therefore much more than financial support. two points to conclude: firstly, we want a commission which thinks more in terms of smes. mr. breton, thank you very much, but we don't need you to have it. we want it to be mrs von der leyen, it must be a staff position directly with the president of the commission; otherwise it remains fragmentation. and secondly, we want to redefine what smes are. owner-managed midcaps in particular are the backbone of the european economy. but there is no staff department like in big corporations; mid caps need deregulation too. this is another issue for the commission, not just linking smes to subsidies. the framework conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises are much more important.
mr president, you will agree with me that to keep our industry competitive we need to adapt. a new strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises will determine europe's role in the global market. if we want our companies to compete we must accelerate the digital core by first seeing that laws reflect the economic and technological context. we see that smes have access to finance and to public procurement, also by strengthening the dialogue with the market and speeding up processes. empower companies by improving their tool against discriminatory and unfair rules in different member states. above all, we need to improve the knowledge of enterprises on these tools. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy. two thirds of the jobs created are in smes. they have such social value in our communities! we have a duty, therefore, to support them and to ensure that education systems are equipped with the best talent.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a social europe in a digital world: it is astonishing that everyone here has decided not to talk simply about a social europe before tackling the digital world. does this social europe exist? i know this because all my colleagues from the committee on employment and social affairs are here. we know, for example, that the coordination of social security systems is particularly difficult and i know that some here believe that digitising our data would be the panacea. i would say that there are indeed risks associated with artificial intelligence and robotics and that a regulatory framework is absolutely necessary. but i would like to warn you against such plans which would seriously undermine our national sovereignty. such projects where data protection is all the less assured because the european union has ignored digital sovereignty and has made us totally vulnerable to china and the united states. i would add that the principle of consent to the collection of data on our workers, social security holders or pensioners is seriously called into question. this could lead to systematic policing, commercial data trafficking or worse. so yes, we must work and move towards cooperation between states and digitisation and make efforts in this direction, but my dear colleagues, we are facing today much more immediate and deeper challenges, such as social dumping, fiscal dumping or the drift of globalism. first of all, let's settle the main points, that's what our compatriots expect.
madam president, yes, digital technologies have changed every aspect of our life, including the existing working and business models and the way we communicate with each other. there are no physical boundaries in the digital world, but there are also no clear rules. a few big companies are setting the new digital values and ethics, shaking up existing rules, raising questions of equal conditions, responsibility, safety and protection of employees. it’s time that we delivered a strong social dimension and a safe online environment for our citizens. what is not allowed offline should not be allowed online, especially if it is done to the detriment of the people. new working models in the digital age must not become a synonym for exploitation and surveillance of workers’ performance. one way to address this is through the digital right to disconnect. just like the eight-hour working day, workers and employees should have a mandatory minimum level of digitally disconnected time per day. the commission must also examine the new digital risks and consequences for the wellbeing of workers, including the issues of additional working hours.
i have to say, madam president, when we talk about the social aspects of digitalisation, we often think in this context of the question: is the internet a public democratic space? other but it is not just the question of freedom on the internet that is at stake, but also the rights of workers. social justice on the internet is, for me, first and foremost about protecting digital fundamental rights. and there are a few things we can do together: we need to strengthen the digital time sovereignty of working people, give more time to families; that's what digitalization can do. we need to take digital platforms into our duty; they can't just sit back and pretend they don't have a responsibility to the people who work for them. and we need to network the unions across europe; and that's much better done through digital channels. a digital europe is a social europe when we strengthen the collective bargaining parties in the european union and not just maximize the profits of the big corporations, and that is where we now have the opportunity to work together in this period in all committees - from the committee on employment and social affairs to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to the legal affairs committee.
i have to say, madam president, digitalisation offers many new opportunities. the elderly person who falls on the bathroom floor can be helped by the floor calling for help. or if we are driving in a car and there is a queue, our car can get out of the queue. or we'll have the opportunity to access public services at 3:00 a.m. it's very nice, but there are challenges. we know that many workers are not sufficiently qualified for this and, moreover, do not have sufficient rights, especially if they are platform workers. we're gonna have to do something about that. we also need to ensure that citizens' privacy is not invaded as we generate ever more data. and then, incidentally, we have to make sure that consumers understand what is behind the consumer choices they face online. there's a lot to do, but basically, it's about designing our digital society to meet people's needs. it's not people who have to conform to digital.
madam president, commissioner, the initial question is: what is a social europe? the social europe is essentially a europe in which everyone has the capacity to develop professionally and personally, and in which no one is excluded. that's the gist of it. digital technologies, precisely, what they offer is the possibility for everyone to be able to achieve those goals. what is the key to this? there is only one answer, one concept, one idea: digital training. digital training is needed throughout the training value chain. from the beginning, the children, the young people, those in university, those who are working, those who are not working and the elderly. what's the point? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: this is going to be decisive, mr. commissioner.
i have to say, madam president, the digital revolution has rapidly crept into every corner of our lives. two per cent of the european population now derive the majority of their income from working on digital platforms, and the number is growing. the transition from analogue to digital forms of work challenges our traditional labour market legislation, for example in minimum wages, but also in collective agreements and organisation. the salaries on the platforms are not determined by contracts but by secret algorithms. if we are to prevent uber or deliveroo from being the ones to decide the pay conditions of europe's workers in the future, we must ensure that the authorities have access to the platforms' algorithms. this is imperative to ensure that europe becomes not only a digital europe but also a social europe.
madam president, the digital world offers people a wonderful opportunity now, both in terms of their leisure and work lives. i have seen in my own country towns like skibbereen developing digital hubs where people can work from, rather than commuting long distances to cities and so forth, and this is a wonderful opportunity. to do that, and also to work from home, you of course need high-speed broadband and that’s a priority right across europe, which i’m pleased our government at home has prioritised. working from home or working close to home means that you are cutting down the time you’re commuting, you’re also cutting down co2 emissions and you have a better work—life balance. all that’s very positive, but it has been pointed out by psychologists that there can be a negative side, where people can suffer psychologically. i think that has to be addressed, particularly in line with the oecd recommendations for the classification of work and also, i think very importantly, for the development of skills. one think that has emerged is that in europe, at this minute, there a million jobs lying idle because we don’t have the it skills. a big challenge for us.
madam president, we will witness an historical moment soon. the commission will present three digital strategies next week, therefore 2020 could very well be the year that gives birth to the digital counter-revolution. we must decide what digital dignity means in the future. do we let companies break into our private lives through targeted personalised ads or will we make the brave decision to kill this business model? we must decide how we use data for us, in the public interest. in the netherlands, google software is used in 70% of all primary schools. do we want google to determine how our children learn or do we want to use data to learn about our children’s learning ourselves? in short, we must decide how to defend or to promote the european way of life in a digital era. let’s work on that.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to your debates, i can see that there is a very broad consensus among you, both on the need to continue developing the digital economy, because there is really no alternative for europe to this development, and on the need to attach great importance to the different aspects, the different risks involved in this economy, this new economy social risks, risks in terms of social protection, risks of a few companies controlling data. there is no fatality between, on the one hand, the promotion of the digital economy and, on the other hand, rights, social protections, data protection. we must not simply suffer the advances of technology. we have to shape them. after listening to your debates, i believe that the commission is strongly called upon to work on both of these aspects. it is true that we will present both this digital agenda and, at the same time, launch work on the protection and guarantee of rights. i announced that the commission was going to convene a major conference on the work on the platforms. i hope that parliament will participate in this and i am sure that parliament will participate in this so that the european model for digital technologies can indeed be an example. we have already given an example with data protection. well, we can also set an example in terms of social protection, social rights, to both promote this economy and make it work for everyone.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the principles of equality in the labour market, the role of social partners, the improvement of the health and safety of workers and fair working conditions have been time and again reaffirmed in numerous council conclusions, parliament resolutions and in legislation we adopt together. i am, therefore, confident that the eu is on the right track. what we might be lacking are dedicated strategies to set the framework for addressing digital developments but i understand from the commission that these proposals will be soon on our table. i look forward to the commission’s proposals and i’m confident that we will continue to have a fruitful and good cooperation with the european parliament on these important matters.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – the digital revolution we are witnessing entails an endless number of opportunities. i believe that everyone should be able to reap the benefits of this new way to conceive our society, our economy and our daily routine: there is still a long way to go and we need to fight to achieve this result. a still relevant portion of the european population still lacks the basic skills to face this digital challenge; women choosing careers in science and technology are still few; many areas of europe have not yet bridged the digital divide that reduces their economic potential. we need to be vigilant so that inequalities will not increase. the smart use of data enabling ai applications can be either an ally to improve many aspects of our daily life or a setback in the reduction of disparities. no discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation, disability, ethnic or social background should be allowed. the european parliament is ready to contribute to the upcoming european data strategy and to the future ai legislation, but it will be vocal as nobody should be left behind.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you all for your interventions. i take from this debate that the respect for the fundamental rights, including the principle of non—refoulement of all people, is a priority, independently of their status and whether they are inside or outside the eu. i agree with you that there should be no physical violence against migrants and refugees – i guess this is an understatement here – and we should ensure that adequate measures are in place to address the needs of the most vulnerable, notably the children, at all steps of the migratory routes. border guards and police should carry out their duties in full respect of fundamental rights – that goes without saying. we have revised our legislation to ensure that safeguards are in place in case of alleged violation of fundamental rights. it is important that these mechanisms play their role. on our side, the commission will continue to monitor the compliance of the situation at the borders with eu law. we will continue engaging with our partners and neighbouring countries, notably in the western balkans, to provide assistance to migrants in third countries to avoid them falling into the hands of unscrupulous smuggling networks. regarding the question posed by you, mr azmani, the commission also considers that the core challenges at our external border are inherently linked with those of the situations member states have inside the eu. so therefore, these challenges should be addressed jointly. many of the issues you raised tonight, such as secondary movement, border controls and cooperation with third countries – and, of course, also the humanitarian situation at our border – are key issues that will be addressed in the new pact on migration. migration is among the most significant challenges the european union has faced in recent years. we cannot stay idle to the suffering of the migrants at our borders. we need to find a common understanding on how we collectively shape and manage the realities of migration. we need to work together to address this phenomenon that is here to stay, in full respect of the dignity of the persons involved. we count on your support.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, let me thank you for this debate. there is no doubt that the situation at our external borders must be addressed in an effective and timely manner. as i have already stressed, we are committed to improving reception conditions for migrants, especially those of vulnerable groups. on a broader note, i would like to reiterate that the croatian presidency intends to continue focusing on implementation with regard to the comprehensive approach to migration. we will do our part to ensure coherent action at eu level in terms of more effective control of the eu external borders and increased external action, as well as to address internal aspects. regarding the alleged push-backs and the situation at the croatian-bosnian border, as you’re all aware, i’m here today in my capacity as the presidency of the eu council, not nationally. however, i would like to comment on this, because i feel that croatia has been unjustly portrayed regarding alleged mistreatment of illegal migrants. i can assure you that there is zero tolerance for violence in croatia. this is strongly underlined by my government in all areas. we take all allegations of police violence against migrants very seriously. therefore, there is especially no tolerance for unlawful use of coercive measures by the croatian police against any population, as well as for non-prosecution of any crime or misdemeanour committed by police officers. every single complaint is carefully investigated by the croatian ministry of the interior. i can assure you that croatian police respect the fundamental rights, safety and dignity in the treatment of migrants in full compliance with international, eu and national law. croatia as an eu member has the task, in accordance with the schengen border code and national legislation, of protecting the state border and preventing illegal migration. regarding the common european asylum system reform, it remains our common priority to tackle the key issue from a broader perspective and to search for a comprehensive solution to the challenges. extensive work has been done by the previous presidencies, and it is our intention to continue building on the foundations they set with the new commission. we will continue working towards the approach with balanced responsibility and solidarity, in line with the european council’s new strategic agenda. the croatian presidency hopes this issue will be adequately addressed in the new pact on migration and asylum, and we look forward to its presentation. regarding the situation in greece, it is a positive development that the new greek government has adopted a new legislative framework for asylum and related issues like return and reception facilities. it entered into force on 1 january 2020. we look forward to its speedy implementation. an efficient asylum system is key to managing migration flows, as well as for the implementation of the eu-turkey statement, notably on readmissions.
member of the commission. – madam president, our debate today cannot be more topical, as yesterday we celebrated the safer internet day across europe and the world for the 17th time since its launch in 2004. we want to ensure children and young people grow up to become confident adults, skilled and respected both online and offline. making the internet safe for children remains a priority. children are one third of internet users and an estimated 800 million of them use social media. let me also recall that one of this commission’s top six political priorities is to build a europe fit for the digital age, allowing everyone in europe, including children, to benefit from technology within safe and ethical boundaries. the commission has been very active on this issue over the years, with actions ranging from funding and coordination with member states to hard law. the european strategy for a better internet for children – the big strategy – is our framework for making the internet a trusted place for children and young people. it has been in place since 2012 and has successfully brought together the european commission, member states, the ict industry and civil society to deliver solutions for a better internet for children through coordination, self-regulation and funding. our policy is rooted in the un convention on the rights of the child, to which all eu member states are party. a strong concern with child safety online cuts across eu legislation. the e-commerce directive, the directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the audiovisual media services directive and the general data protection regulation all contain provisions to protect minors online. as to future plans, the commission will first of all be working on a comprehensive new strategy on the rights of the child, including their rights online. the strategy should include actions to protect vulnerable children, protect their rights online, foster child-friendly justice and prevent and fight violence. we will also strengthen and modernise rules applicable to digital services in the whole eu through the digital services act. we will start with a broad consultation to make sure we get the balance right and propose measures. we will also work with member states for the full transposition of the revised audiovisual media services directive, which includes a new obligation on member states to ensure that video-sharing platforms put in place specific measures to protect minors from harmful content online. these include mechanisms allowing users to report, flag or rate harmful content, age verification or parental control systems and transparent easy-to-use and effective complaint-handling procedures. the revised directive also ensures that children’s data collected by audiovisual media providers are not process for commercial use, including for profiling and behaviourally-targeted advertising. furthermore, we will present a revised digital education action plan to equip children with the skills and competences needed to thrive in this digital age. through the current digital education action plan, the commission is supporting outreach to schools in order to improve online safety, media literacy and digital skills. for example, the safer internet for eu campaign reached 30 million europeans in 2018, and in 2019 the eu code week involved 4.2 million people, with 92% of the 72 000 activities taking place in schools. the commission plans to update the plan, focusing on digital literacy and aiming at equipping young people and adults with the skills they need for life and work in the digital age. as regards the european strategy for a better internet for children, the commission has informally consulted the main stakeholders to assess its relevance and role. these stakeholders include the safer internet centres, industry and civil society and member states. the preliminary feedback is positive. the strategy’s four pillars and its holistic approach are still relevant, despite emerging risks such as disinformation, cyberbullying, online hate speech, live streaming of illegal content, and new ways for children to use technology. any possible update of the strategy will have to be flexible enough to be future-proof as the digital ecosystem continues to evolve, with children and young people among the most ardent and avant-garde users of technology. any commission decision on next steps will take into account the results of the latest big policy map, a study on how the strategy is implemented in member states, the results of a new european parliament pilot project supporting cooperation between industry hotlines and member states’ authorities for the swift removal of child sexual abuse material online, and, of course, the work on the new strategy on the rights of the child. what we can already anticipate is that work in this area will continue to keep a fair balance between protection and empowerment measures for children and young people in formal and informal education. i thank you and i look forward to your comments on this.
on behalf of the s&d group. other when i was doing a television journalism program with my team, we were investigating child safety online. one of the team members pretended to be 14 years old and joined a public chat group online, and in a few hours was contacted by no less than thirty men of all ages. many of them asked her to meet them. the oldest was sixty-eight years old. after she responded, eight of them sent her their personal information and where to meet them, and five of them showed up to meet a fourteen-year-old girl, but ran away as soon as they saw the cameras. they obviously fled because they knew what they were doing was wrong. but i'm mentioning this case because our children can easily end up in these traps without realizing it. and we heard today; children have a natural inclination to the internet. but while online they are capable of more than their elders, in reality they are exposed to many, many more risks. and i know how important it is to design 'policies' and campaigns with the different 'service providers', whether they are telephone companies or even large digital companies. the best interests of the child shall be the concern of everyone; of their parents, the private sector and even governments and even the european commission, because only together can we really work to make sure that we have a safer internet for children. because just as we want our children to be safe on the road and at school, we need to make sure that our children are safe online as well.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, when this debate was announced, i immediately expressed my interest in taking part in it. during the previous legislation, i was the rapporteur on education in the digital era and also shadow on the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd). so i went to do my homework. i was disappointed when i found out that the last time the commission addressed the issue was in 2011, and since then we have just forgotten the approach which was agreed. let me give you an example. ten years ago, we were against the fragmentation of the market, but, two years ago, we adopted the avms with the famous moral development of children to be defined by member states. the good news is that, in 2019, the commission announced the creation of a new expert group on safer internet for children. so we took only eight years to take the first coordinated steps. since then, the group has had three meetings, but we’re still far from a solution. why? i believe we have to take into account at least two important things. first, children grow fast and we have to act accordingly. ten years for a political decision means one generation at school. second, we cannot solve systematic problems by projects, but this is exactly what we are doing. we have of course adopted some good directives, which we have already mentioned: combating sexual abuse, xenophobia, hate speech, gdpr, and so on, but this is not enough. what we need is a comprehensive european approach to the digital education of children, not on a project basis but in each and every school, compulsory, with good teachers, a clear curriculum, an agreed set of criteria and assessment system. but what do we have in practice? some member states where 60% of schools do not have an internet connection. what digital education can we speak about? i strongly believe that we have to act, but act quickly and invest proper funds, not just in the meetings or working groups, but in the schools. otherwise eight years later, it will be the same.
madam president, commissioner dalli, i am sure you are aware that half of the 11 to 16-year-olds in europe have been exposed to one of the main risks of the internet: cyberbullying, online sexting, grooming or fake news. as an ambassador for a safe internet for all, i hold student information events in greece and ask them to show us how they protect themselves when they go online. the results are spectacular, our kids are suspect. but they need help, and the help has to come from us, and it has to come through the recruitment of technology. all the studies show that companies that operate in web applications, whether they are games or whether they are social media, have the technological ability to identify problematic material on the web that is directed at children, to identify harassment and to stop it. i think that is where we should focus and that is where we should put the emphasis in terms of funding. at the same time, we must emphasise the information of teachers, parents and, finally, children. we need to protect the digital citizens of tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the online environment is an important part of life for the younger generation. it can also be a space for participation and emancipation, as demonstrated by the "fridays for future" initiative. however, we need to create the conditions to make the online world safe for children. some phenomena are on the rise: the use of the internet for the purpose of exploitation, including the use of the internet for the purpose of exploitation, we are faced with serious violations of the rights of children, which cause very serious trauma. we must step up our efforts to combat these phenomena. we can improve prevention tools, digital literacy, education on the responsible use of the internet, the production of quality content for entertainment purposes. we can strengthen the tools for detecting and removing specific material from the network and those for active countermeasures. in the last parliamentary term we introduced, right here in strasbourg, a bill that was passed in italy on cyberbullying, which i think is still extremely relevant. we therefore need to exchange best practice, and we need a strong partnership between lawmakers, industry and civil society. a specific focus is needed on empowering everyone to take responsibility for combating abuse. we cannot afford to have another challenge where reality is one step ahead of the legislator. a safe online environment must be our immediate action priority.
while the internet offers various opportunities, it also poses a number of risks especially for the most vulnerable people in our society especially children. in the digital world, children can be, and often are, exposed to illegal material, dangerous content, behaviour such as cyber-bullying, sexual harassment, child pornography and violence. today's children live in a digital world and realities play a very important role in their lives, realities such as recreating themselves, playing, talking to their peers and even taking an educational training. we already have tools to help our children face risks in realities outside the digital world. but i ask, do we have the necessary tools, protection, knowledge and safeguards so that children are safe online as well? we all have a moral responsibility to provide a safer digital world for our children. we therefore want the commission, as a matter of urgency, to respond efficiently and effectively to these digital realities so that the online world is a safer one for our children.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i come from italy, a country that has been particularly affected by this coronavirus crisis. we are trying to deal with this as well as we can in my region. i think it is good that we are here today to discuss european measures to deal with this crisis and i hope that they will be adopted, because this crisis needs a european response. i think that people have felt this european response too little until now. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. unfortunately, at the beginning, the best thing that the states could do was to tighten up the borders and pretend that this virus would stop at internal borders, just as we said a few years ago that refugees and migrants would stop at internal borders. that wasn't the case either. unfortunately, this virus is now hitting those regions and parts of the european union which have suffered so much from the economic crisis and later also from the migration crisis. these are also parts of the union which, even then, very rarely felt european solidarity. i think we also have to think about how people in these regions - in spain, in italy, in the mediterranean - are now experiencing a union without solidarity. so if they don't see the union acting now, they're going to turn their backs on the union. this is ultimately existential for the union itself. so it's also an existential political question. that's why we have to act. we need a commission that acts, we need a civil protection that acts. we can put off to autumn things that are not urgently needed now, and i also believe that we do not necessarily need a green deal now, we do not necessarily need a farm-to-table strategy now, we do not necessarily need a biodiversity strategy now. the union will not fail to do this if we do it in the autumn, we can do it then. but the important decisions that need to be made now, we have to make them now. i think this is a very special time, and it needs very special answers, and we should be providing them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus pandemic is a human tragedy of potentially biblical proportions. after many years of peace, progress and social well-being, europe is experiencing a new and dangerous phenomenon with dramatic consequences. the coronavirus knows no borders, no social classes: it strikes poverty and nobility alike, and no one will emerge stronger than the other, no one will save himself alone. we are at war, and war requires collective mobilization, and that is why it is urgent today to reform europe so that it can truly become the united states of europe, as the founding fathers intended. we can no longer tolerate the selfishness of some; we will only emerge from this crisis if we are united and united and if europe is the leader of the strategies to be adopted. italy was the first european country to face the emergency and i know you can understand my excitement to speak in this house today: i am proud to speak of my country, which has become, despite itself, a model for all other states. i say this with the death toll, which is growing every day, imprinted on my heart and mind. and so we cannot but thank the doctors, the nurses, the health workers, the law enforcement and all the workers in the essential supply chains, who continue to commute to work; the road hauliers, who deliver goods amidst a thousand difficulties and obstacles. this damned virus has shown in all its power the fragility of a europe of nationalisms, where all governments, more or less, over the last forty years have cut resources in strategic sectors such as research and health, and are now unable to guarantee the safety of doctors in the corridor. a europe that has failed to create a consortium for vaccine research. then it's time to make amends for the mistakes we've made. it is no coincidence that mario draghi, a great italian and a great european, warned the european states yesterday, on the eve of this important day, with these words: "in this crisis, a change of mindset is needed, as in wartime. the shock we are facing is not cyclical, the loss of income is not the fault of any of those who suffer from it. the cost of hesitation can be irreversible! do not hesitate, states draghi tells us because an exceptional crisis requires exceptional and immediate measures, a lot of resources and a lot of liquidity to be mobilized, avoiding bureaucratic delays. because it is our political and moral duty to save businesses, jobs and families: this must be our obsession, colleagues! the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. i conclude by saying that this is the time for courage, not timidity and hypocrisy, for all national governments, for majorities and oppositions: all of them!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my sympathy and solidarity with all the people across europe who are directly or indirectly affected by this virus. i think the message from parliament today, mr president, is clear: we are thinking of these people. it is a sad moment that unites us here, and we know of many colleagues who would have liked to have been there but were unable to do so under the present circumstances. and that is why it is a message from all of us that today is about showing real solidarity and not falling back on old demands that we have raised in the past in other situations. genuine solidarity - as my colleagues esteban gonzález pons and caspary have already pointed out - means that we are now focusing on those who are receiving people from other countries in their hospitals. i am extremely grateful that my constituency is receiving a large number of patients from france and italy. and real solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, means that each and every one of us must now take responsibility for dealing with this crisis. that means keeping your distance. but it also means that, for the distribution of responsibilities in europe, each country, each region, the european commission and each citizen must take responsibility for their own actions and not shift the blame to others. if we succeed, i believe that this crisis is also an opportunity for europe.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me start also by expressing clear solidarity with all families, all europeans, who are going through this terrible ordeal. i would also like to express my gratitude to the heroes of the day: the doctors, medical personnel – first and foremost – but also the police, soldiers, shopkeepers and people working in critical areas so that we can actually telework from home. i would like to thank the european parliament, all of you who are here, and also those who are looking at us through their teleworking stations and are participating in our work by this new way of remote voting. i think it’s extremely important to send the signal to european citizens that the institutions are working, that we have found a way to operate under these difficult conditions and that we can, and know how to, adopt the decisions which are so crucial for our citizens. i really would like also to thank mr gonzáles pons, mr moreno sánchez, ms de lange and mr benifei – who realise that we are in a completely new set—up and that we in the european commission are really doing our utmost, in close cooperation with you, to find the best responses to this unprecedented situation. to mr bay and mr dzhambazki, i would say that the whole world was not prepared – just look at how we are all struggling. but i think that we really mobilised very quickly and we found a way how best to share our responsibilities, because you know what the treaty says about responsibility for the health sector. i mean this is not a blame—game. this is not about shifting responsibilities. we simply have to work together. i’m very pleased also that the predominant tone in the discussion today was how we can do this better. i’m very glad that we are hearing the same echoes coming from our member states. i would like to reassure mr botenga that our model for acting under these difficult circumstances is ‘let’s do whatever it takes’ to tackle the crisis and to emerge from this traumatic situation stronger. we are working on the very concrete measures that madame ries, madame aubry, and mr mureșan were asking for, because we are fully realising that through concrete measures we can show that we are operational, we can deliver, and that cooperation at european level brings much better results than individual actions by member states. the president of the commission has highlighted a few of the measures, but to give you more concrete figures from yesterday’s college discussions: first, what we needed to do is actually to map out how much of this medical equipment we need. how many masks? how many respirators do we need for our operations? to give you the preliminary conclusions of these analyses: we need 200 million masks, we need 30 million respirators, weekly, for at least 3 months. the good news is that this joint procurement has worked and we will be able to have them for a reasonable price and we will be able to distribute them to the member states very soon. the same goes for the ventilators. we need at least 15 000 for the next three months. unfortunately, we have something like half of that. but again, yesterday, we had very thorough discussions with the producers, exporters and importers of this equipment and we are pretty sure that very soon we will be able to help our member states also with this crucial technology. the first lesson we learned from this crisis was that our civic mechanism is not working if none of our member states is in a position to help because of limited stockpiles. i think that we need to learn from that and therefore we are establishing the strategic reserve for this medical equipment, which will be open within days – we already have medical supplies worth eur 10 million – and which would be under our jurisdiction, so it would not mean a request to the member state that supplies the equipment, but it will be our decision to supply those member states, those sectors, which would need it the most. i think that this idea, as ms in ‘t veld was suggesting, should be developed further as we need these strategic reserves for all sensitive equipment for the future, for when we need it. on top of this current situation, we are working on two strands. the first is of course all the measures which we need to tackle the health aspects of the crisis, but at the same time we are also working on the economic aspect, which i think will be with us for quite a few months to come. first and foremost, we want to make sure that all this sensitive medical equipment will be manufactured predominantly here in europe so we will not be so dependent on imports from third countries. we talked to the industry and we have been encouraged by the positive response. we believe that within three to four months we should be able to produce this sensitive equipment here in europe so we can be much more autonomous in our decision taking. then, of course, we need to take care of the macroeconomic situation. here our focus is on making sure that it would provide enough liquidity for our financial systems. to respond to mr wallace, this is not for banks, but for businesses, for smes, so they can keep their operations open, and to protect jobs because we are fully aware that once a job is lost it is very difficult to recreate it. so we are working on making sure that as few people as possible will lose their jobs because of the coronavirus crisis. several of you mentioned the bazooka from the european central bank. i would just add that in addition to the eur 750 million there are another eur 2 billion euros and some other programmes offered by the ecb, so all together the response just from the ecb is in the area of eur 1 trillion. we are working very closely with the eib, and thanks to our financial contribution the eib is developing a programme worth eur 200 billion in loans especially aimed at smes because we know that they are the main employer in the european union. we are also, of course, looking into ways to help big industries as well. if i may, i will use this opportunity to call on the governments in central and eastern europe to talk to the european commission, to develop their crisis schemes, just as other countries in western and southern europe already have done, which we – in an express manner, thanks to the great work of vice—president vestager – approved as legal state aid. we discussed yesterday how we can help them to develop these programmes, these schemes. we are ready to do that in the european commission. i hope that also the governments from these countries will come to us so that we can together develop recovery plans, which are needed for every single member state. concerning vaccines and concerning coronavirus response systems, we have already allocated some quite substantial sums of money and we are working very closely – in a very special advisory group working with our president – to see where the leading epidemiologists and virologists are to develop the vaccine. we are also ready to make sure that we protect our critical industries in these times of a stock exchange rollercoaster, were they to be faced with hostile takeovers. we simply won’t let this happen, and i believe that the european parliament will help us in that effort. when i was here a few weeks ago, my last intervention in this chamber was on the multiannual financial perspective. i agree totally with mr eppink that now is the time to decide. we need the budget. we need seven years’ financial perspective so we can plan the recovery of europe and we can tackle better the emergencies of today. i would just remind the general public in the european union that we are in the last year of the seven—year budget and we are very much limited by financial constraints as to how much we can do. so i hope that the video conference of the leaders this afternoon, which should be very much focused, naturally, on tackling the coronavirus, will also be tackling the issue of how we are going to tackle this virus from the economic and financial point of view. for that we need the mff, and i hope that this crisis will make it crystal clear to our leaders that we need good progress at that level. to conclude, mr president, i would finish on the point made by ms in ‘t veld. i think that history teaches us that the best responses to post—crisis development have been prepared during crises. of course, now we have to focus on the daily management, on how to tackle this crisis and how to make this nightmare go away as quickly and with as few victims as possible. but at the same time we need to start reflecting on what will be next – how the world will change, how europe will change, what our position will be on this new global map and how we will make sure that europe emerges stronger via a strong recovery plan, by more technological autonomy, by greater strategic sovereignty. as you know, i’m responsible for foresight in the european commission, and i would like to assure you that these are exactly the ideas we are working on. once we have something more concrete it will be my pleasure to share it with this house as well. thank you very much, mr president, and thank you all for coming here or for supporting us from your teleworking stations. thanks to the interpreters and to all the staff from protocol and to the technical operators who have made our session today possible.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – the covid-19 pandemic hit europe and the rest of the world like a devastating tornado - quickly, unpredictably and in a deadly manner. covid-19 is a litmus test for europe to show that it can rise up to the challenges ahead. but, to do that we need a comprehensive european strategy that will coordinate actions with the eu institutions, also with authorities at national, regional and local levels, as well as cooperation with our global partners. the strategy needs to set short, mid and long term measures to protect people’s health, jobs, and well-being, and prepare for a different - sustainable and resilient - future for all. we need more and quicker tests available for everyone. covid-19 does not discriminate between rich and poor, famous and powerful and so neither should we discriminate in our testing and treatment. we need to address and solve the shortage of medical and protective equipment, especially for hospitals, doctors and people at the frontline in fighting this pandemic. we also need clear measures from european institutions and member states on how to proceed after lockdowns are lifted and on tackling different socio-economic challenges and to communicate clear and real solutions for all european citizens.
in writing. – a diverging approach between member states would not be the right response to the covid-19 crisis. therefore, i strongly urge the member states to follow the commission’s guidelines for border management measures and to apply internal border controls in a justified and proportionate manner, to facilitate the provision of professional services, especially in the healthcare, childcare or elderly care sectors in cross-border regions. also in order to prevent the shortage of essential goods, including food, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and personal protection equipment all across europe, the commission should ensure the effectiveness of the monitoring mechanisms. i welcome the efforts to launch joint procurement for specific medical supplies needed as well as flexibility to allow fast-track purchases of medical equipment and devices. i also find crucial that the commission and national authorities should proactively monitor the market during the crisis and to share information about malpractices. i also strongly support the idea of eurobonds as a financial tool to counter any economic downturn the virus might cause. i would also urge member states guaranteeing social protection (such as access to health care at affordable cost / preserve decent wage for workers) for all the european families particularly affected by the crisis.
in writing. the eu is facing its biggest crisis since its creation. every day, on time, we europeans, we go out every afternoon, to applaud our health professionals. professionals who are on the front lines of defense, to whom we will be eternally grateful for facing this pandemic in extreme conditions. that said, i'd like to refer to "the other heroes". i am referring to those who go to their jobs every day: security forces, cashiers, pharmacists, transporters and truck drivers, among others. our hauliers and truck drivers are the ones who ensure the supply and the functioning of the single market. they deserve to be assured of adequate health protection, of being able to meet their basic needs on the road in a dignified manner and of having access to the necessary facilities. i would also like to stress the importance of saving transport companies: we must think especially about their protection. the day this crisis ends, these companies must continue to operate if we want a speedy recovery. it's time to work together over our differences. we must show that the european project is useful to each and every one of us, and we must all row in the same direction without leaving anyone behind.
in writing. – first of all, my thoughts are with all families who lost their loved ones due to covid-19 all over the world. i would also like to praise the efforts of health workers fighting the virus. today we are voting on three urgent legislative proposals aimed at tackling the effects of the pandemic. it will support smes, national short-term employment schemes and reinforce coronavirus-related health expenditure within member states. i would like to welcome the emergency package. we need to guarantee measures that will protect our society and our economy. i would also like to underline the importance of speeding up the legislative process so that funds can be channelled as soon as possible to diminish the social and economic impact. fast reactions are crucial to deal with the consequences of the crisis, to maintain jobs, to guarantee safety and security. coordination at eu level is vital to ensure a unified response to the crisis and to able member states to take all the appropriate measures in this challenging context.
in writing. beyond the tragedy, the major health crisis we are experiencing has thrown a spotlight on the shortcomings of the european union. what if italy or france were to rely on china, the source of this health drama, for the supply of masks - it is true, in a fair return of things? moreover, is not unbridled free trade, at the heart of the european model, the fundamental cause of this crisis? the measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises must be fully supported. for example, we are being asked to amend the rules for allocating the structural funds, in particular the erdf and the emff, in order to allow the states to finance certain urgent expenditure for enterprises, for a total financial commitment of €37 billion but only €8 billion in cash. this amount seems all the more paltry when compared with the sums committed by the member states individually. this excessively low level of support is further evidence of the inadequacy of a european union that is unable to rise to the challenge. and instead of being a combination of strengths, it is a combination of weaknesses.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic demonstrates, in its dramatic nature, that in a globalised context, health emergencies do not stop at national borders. the eu and its member states must therefore adopt a common and coordinated response. although some countries are more affected than others, we must not be under the illusion that the problem is confined to the former. the health of the citizens must be protected by ensuring the best possible care and preventing further infections as far as possible. the measures that italy (the first country affected by the epidemic) was forced to adopt represent a model, as also highlighted by the who. the eu must therefore set up a common centre for the purchase and distribution of medicines and protective equipment and invest in research into treatments and vaccines for the new virus. financial interventions are also needed in the short and long term to curb the economic and employment impact by supporting all categories of workers and enterprises, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as investment in social policies: every available tool must be used and adapted to the current situation. it is time to put the solidarity of article 2 of the teu into practice, because, as the president of the commission has said, no member state can get out of this crisis on its own.
in writing. – we are facing a public health crisis unprecedented in recent history. we have taken strong measures, unnatural to us, limiting to the strictest levels, the movement of people. despite its noble intentions, this is a direct blow to the whole tourism ecosystem and to the aviation industry. big players in the market but especially smaller national airlines have been dealt a serious blow and had to resort to emergency actions to safeguard employment. these amendments to the slots regulation are necessary to help airlines weather the crisis with the least possible impact. they are also timely and crucial to prevent unnecessary pollution caused by the operation of ghost flights. it is not yet clear when restrictions on travel will be eased, however we all know it will take time for airlines to be able to return to their full capacity even in the aftermath of covid-19. for this reason, whilst i reiterate the need for a rescue plan for the tourism industry, in the interest of all workers in the aviation industry, their families and the sustainability of the european aviation industry, we should be prepared for the applicability of such temporary amendments to be extended after october 24th.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic is the most serious and dramatic crisis europe has faced since the second world war, with its very high human, economic and social costs. the european union has taken and must continue to take strong, immediate and concrete initiatives to ensure coordinated and effective action in countering the pandemic and its consequences. this is necessary not only to ensure immediate care and assistance for citizens, but also to reduce the impact on the economic and social fabric of the member states, and to prevent the crisis from turning into a criminal issue. as with any crisis, this one may present an opportunity for criminal organisations, which are adept at exploiting social discomfort and economic difficulties. we must prevent organised criminal groups from using their vast resources and liquidity to take over companies and businesses in crisis, or from entering the business of protective devices by exploiting the shortage of supply. for these reasons too, it is necessary for the european union to use all the room for manoeuvre to ensure that member states are able to provide concrete support to workers and businesses and to set up a coordinated and effective system for the purchase and distribution of essential goods in the fight against the coronavirus.
in writing. the eu and european citizens are experiencing an unprecedented crisis because of the coronavirus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the budget. the eu must intervene immediately and decisively to deal with the coming economic crisis. we have stressed from the outset the importance of the issue of eurobonds as the most appropriate financial instrument to deal with the coming recession in the european economy. the eu must rise to the occasion, demonstrate in action that we are a truly united europe, with solidarity and common objectives. if the eu is not responsive to the expectations of its citizens in these critical times, it will not only lose a battle, it may even jeopardise the very fabric of europe.
in writing. the eu's expedited response to covid-19 is essential. we put people's health first and started to prepare to alleviate the burden of the social and economic impact that we were already feeling. we have shown regulatory flexibility and are protecting workers in the various sectors. it is a fact that the virus has faced several challenges. meanwhile, other decisions at european level are needed to encourage sensible solutions in different markets, which, while asserting consumer rights, secure a future for important sectors and the workers and families who depend on them. when it comes to migration in the mediterranean, we have been calling for a long-term solution for years and we have not succeeded. to leave a country, small or large, facing a humanitarian crisis, in the midst of a public health crisis that has already cost lives, without finding behind it a union willing to coordinate a collective and effective contribution to saving lives, raises questions rather than provides answers; it certainly does not represent the european solidarity that i believe in. the public health emergency is putting pressure on the resources of each country. in this situation, a risk to one member is a risk to all members. in this light, i hope that the solidarity that the eu is showing in the distribution of essential goods and medical care will be reflected in the responsibility for people crossing the mediterranean to europe. this is the hour of trial for the eu, which determines its values by facts.
mr president, the economic recovery plan which the european commission is going to present must be able to pass two fundamental tests: the test of credibility and the test of solidarity. the credibility test, because it cannot be based on financial illusionism alone. it must have the resources to be able to cope with this unprecedented crisis. secondly, the solidarity test, because it must mobilise investment where it is needed without plunging the member states into a new sovereign debt crisis. and this is only possible with debt securities issued by the commission, guaranteed by the european budget and transferred to the states more through grants than loans. a credible and supportive plan. this is what it takes. the european parliament does not ask for more than is necessary. it doesn't ask for more, but it doesn't ask for less.
mr president, i would like to just make one additional remark after having listened to this debate for nearly two hours with great interest. this pandemic knows no borders; neither should the eu’s response. that is why the chairs of the committees in this parliament who deal with external policies have issued a joint statement. we have called for close cooperation with our neighbours and partners, both in the fight against the pandemic as an imminent health issue and against its serious future consequences. in the past few weeks, we have seen remarkable efforts of cooperation and acts of goodwill, but we have also had to witness increased isolationism, harsh competition between nations for medicines and equipment, intense propaganda and disinformation by third countries, and a sharp rise in cyber—attacks. this shows this pandemic has a global meaning. it’s a global challenge. the multiannual financial framework (mff) will be the main instrument to tackle this challenge we face within the european union, but also to support our partners not only, but foremost, in our immediate neighbourhood. this has to be covered in the future mff.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i would like to thank everyone for this debate. there was a lot of passion. there was a lot of ambition in your statements. what i think i saw most across all the interventions today is that there is a clear push for making sure that the eu, our union, our europe, will emerge from this crisis stronger, more modern, more sustainable and more resilient. i think these have been the calls presented by the leaders – ms garcía pérez, mr cioloş and mr lamberts. i cannot tell you how much we in the commission appreciate the close cooperation with this house, especially over the last few weeks, where your quick decision—making helped us to be able to deliver to our citizens what was needed the most. we all had to focus on how to save as many lives as possible at the beginning, then on how to preserve as many jobs as possible, and now we are discussing together how we are going to relaunch the european economy and how we are going to recover from this dramatic crisis. i would really like to thank you for that because, with that cooperation, we have already been able to deliver, over the last few weeks, more than 200 measures, some of the very important legislative proposals adopted by you, which really went in the direction of how to help people on the ground concretely to overcome this unprecedented crisis. thanks to the heroic efforts of our health professionals and thanks to the discipline of our citizens, we are finally seeing that the terrible numbers of corona crisis victims are slowly going down. we all know that this was a very difficult period, but the biggest test is still ahead of us: how to recover from this crisis, how to relaunch and restart our economy, and how to get back to normal. this could indeed be, as mr weber described, the schuman moment of our generation. therefore, i very much appreciate this debate because, as mr silva pereira said, we need to be ambitious and bold to meet this challenge, this test, of european solidarity and credibility. how do we want to achieve that? just let me quickly recap some of the major features of the proposals we are currently working on. we want to base our response on a powerful future long—term budget, a multiannual framework with a strong recovery instrument which would dramatically boost the financial firepower of the eu. i would definitely call this an unprecedented ambition. so here i would beg to differ with mr verhofstadt that this is ‘business as usual’. i was personally involved in the negotiations on the last three financial perspectives and what we are proposing right now has never been done before. it’s very bold and very ambitious. i believe that, with your support, we can deliver on this challenge which is ahead of all of us. i would like to reassure you that we want to reinforce all the policies which work and which are, i would say, battle—tested. we would like to make sure that we will top up the cohesion funds and focus the top—up especially on those who have suffered the most during the crisis. we want to use and improve the work of investeu and of horizon, which is so important for supporting our scientists. and we would never forget the very important social aspect of our work for the european union. we need to tackle poverty, we need to make sure that the just transition fund works efficiently, and of course we cannot forget about women, parents and all the issues related to gender balance, which will be so important for our recovery. on top of that, we are bringing to the table a new solvency instrument to prevent bankruptcies caused by this crisis, and we also want to develop a new health programme that would prepare us better for the future. so, once again, i repeat, this is definitely not ‘business as usual’. this is a very ambitious response to the current crisis. i would like also to respond to the calls of mr lamberts, mr eickhout and mr ertug by saying we definitely want to use this new financial firepower to bounce our economy forward. we want to make it greener and more sustainable. i think that this crisis has taught us the lesson that we have to be more resilient through strategic autonomy and technological sovereignty. these are the areas where we need to be much more active than before, and this is our goal. to all those colleagues who have been highlighting the importance of own resources, i would like to reassure you that we are very actively working with all options. most of these have already been mentioned here in this debate. we are going to present proposals which we believe will be acceptable to all and which could be approved by your votes and by the member states. it’s very clear that, if we have to deliver on this challenge, we can deliver only with your full involvement and with clear oversight and scrutiny from the european parliament. if you allow me, mr president, before concluding, i will make just two quick remarks on issues which are not related to the main theme, but have been raised in this house. as they are so important, i just want briefly to react to them, these being the questions from mr olivier and mr omarjee concerning the german constitutional court’s recent ruling. here i would like to say that, despite the fact that we are studying the ruling of the german constitutional court in great detail, i think our president has made it very clear. she clearly said that, when it comes to the primacy in europe of eu law and the independence of the european central bank, these are basic principles which we are ready to safeguard and defend if necessary, even using the option of infringement proceedings. so we are clearly working on it. to ms yoncheva, i would like to reassure her that we are working on the report on the rule of law, where we will study all the known issues, but also on how our governments have been using special powers during this difficult period and how to make sure that we will, as quickly as possible, bounce back to normally—functioning democratic systems. all this will be brought to your attention and to your table at the latest in september. once again, mr president, thank you very much to everyone for this debate, for the ideas, for the encouragement and for the ambition i have felt in this house.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, i’m happy to address you again in person. let me also thank you for this very useful debate. we will convey your views to my colleagues and to the president of the european council and his team. we face extraordinary circumstances, but the situation only strengthens our resolve to work harder for the benefit of our citizens and our economies. as president michel told you, our shared objective is to build at eu level a long-term response to the dramatic consequences of the covid-19 crisis. this will complement the rapid and wide eu support already deployed with your help these last weeks. today, the president of the commission gave us an outline of the modified mff and an ambitious recovery instrument. we are yet to receive details of the commission’s proposal, and you will understand, therefore, that i am not in a position to comment on the substance today. the proposals will have to be analysed in the appropriate fora, and guidance from the european council will be needed for the council to form its position on the text. our next mff should be the cornerstone of the recovery of the european economy, of the rebuilding and the re-establishment of the functioning of the single market in the post-covid period to ensure the massive public and private investments needed. it should have greater investment potential, especially in the initial years of the new financial perspective. the post-crisis european union economy should become resilient and more self-sufficient, and for the recovery to be swift and successful, cohesion, convergence as well as solidarity will be of utmost importance. continuous cooperation between our institutions will be an essential part of all of this process. the presidency is firmly committed to maintaining the existing good working relations that we have established in our response to the crisis. we will therefore continue to be attentive to parliament’s views on these very important files. in this spirit, i have taken good note of the legislative initiative report and of the resolution you are preparing. these are useful reminders of where the european parliament stands in the context of crisis. good interinstitutional cooperation will also be essential for our sectorial work. we will need to work together to ensure a timely adoption of sectorial programmes and we will look forward to working with you on them. i look forward to the continued cooperation between our two institutions to prepare the ground for an ambitious, forward-looking mff and to provide a strong response to our current and future challenges.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the resolution on the subject 'new mff, own resources and plan for economic reconstruction' will take place on thursday 14 may 2020 and friday 15 may 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i feel that the negotiations on the new seven-year budget of the european union have been too focused on the size of the budget. we talk too much about massive packages and own resources. the 1% of national income allocated to the eu budget will not be able to compensate for the 7.4% economic downturn forecast for this year. instead of focusing on the size of the budget, we should therefore focus on how to use the scarce budgetary resources most effectively. we should pay more attention to the european pastureland, the digital agenda and how to ensure european sovereignty in strategic sectors. in the crisis, we are making extensive use of teleworking and distance learning and e-government. these possibilities vary widely from one member state to another. remote voting is a hot topic in all member states. a strong digital identity is the foundation of a truly reliable remote voting system. unfortunately, europeans also use google, facebook or apple solutions for identification in the context of single sign on services. where are the european solutions? the voting system used in the european parliament is also based on the logic of a fax machine. it's so yesterday! we need to ensure that citizens of all eu member states have a strong, government-guaranteed digital identity. the next multiannual budget must be much more focused on digital developments.
in writing. – i would like to welcome the joint resolution, which calls for a strong recovery package with an adjusted mff at its core. this massive recovery package should provide an investment impulse to transform our economies and strengthen their resilience through the pooling of strategic investments to support smes. it should also increase job opportunities to mitigate the impact of the crisis on workers and consumers. furthermore, smes, which are the backbone of our economy, need reduced bureaucracy and more fit—for—purpose regulations. the issue of new and increasing state aid disparities between member states should be addressed, as this creates damage to our single market. i welcome the statement of the european commission president that the european parliament will be involved in the scrutiny process of the overall recovery plan. even if urgent, it should indeed still follow the democratic process. let us not forget about people. european citizens must be at the heart of the longer-term vision of our recovery strategy, as crises go together with increasing poverty and socio—economic instability. for all these reasons, i urge that the recovery package become operational this year to address social and economic inequalities as soon as possible.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis has the greatest impact on vulnerable groups, leading to increased inequalities, poverty, unemployment and social disparities, as well as threats to social and employment standards in europe. we need to have the right response and the right tools. the crisis has shown the need to review the multiannual financial perspective and adapt it to the challenges that have arisen. we need an ambitious mff that meets the expectations of eu citizens, with the necessary funding for the political commitments and ambitions envisaged by the eu, with a strong social dimension and in line with the objectives of the european pillar of social rights, the united nations sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the gender equality objective, to ensure that economic recovery strengthens territorial cohesion and competitiveness and that it takes into account social and economic inequalities and the needs of those most affected by the crisis, such as women, minorities and people living at or below the poverty line. the mff must mobilise funds for sustainable social policies aimed at reducing poverty and social exclusion, in particular in relation to child poverty and the european child guarantee and other measures to reduce it.
in writing. europe is currently experiencing an unprecedented crisis due to the covid-19 outbreak. the european citizens and their well-being must be at the heart of the recovery strategy. we stress our position for a strong recovery package, focused on the needs of citizens and further budgetary growth. a strong €2 trillion plan is needed to support the economies, society and citizens of eu countries tested by the pandemic. it is very important to stress that the recovery plan must accompany the next multiannual financial framework, without negatively affecting existing and future european programmes.
in writing. this parliament must ask the european commission to propose a contingency plan for the 2021-2027 financial framework as soon as possible, because, although the debate may continue, there are programmes for financing education and research, support for small enterprises and cohesion funds, among others, which no region, large or small, can afford to ignore. i believe we all understand the need, that while what was necessary before remains necessary now, the european financial framework must most effectively mitigate the economic impact on workers and families, and reduce the social consequences of an unprecedented pandemic, by providing more flexibility and by strengthening financial support. beyond the regular budget, europe needs a robust economic recovery plan that prioritises the areas worst affected by the effects of the pandemic, such as tourism and the various sectors dependent on it; air and sea travel. a serious recovery plan should use grants to help those sectors most affected cope with the lack of liquidity. today, with the understanding that economic success is measured by the standard of living of families, we know well that economic stimulus must continue to provide sufficient resources to protect work and maintain public services including health, education and the safety of our communities.
in writing. the joint resolution adopted by the european parliament proposes concrete measures to the european commission to address the recovery of the tourism and transport sectors and to get out of the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic. these two sectors are among the most affected and a swift and coordinated response by the european institutions is essential. the health and economic confidence and legal certainty are what give the tourism and transport sector the confidence to revive its activity. in this context, the joint resolution includes several proposals from the spanish delegation of the pp in the european parliament, such as the development of a european certification seal guaranteeing the highest hygiene protocols in infrastructure and means of transport, in order to generate confidence among tourists, the implementation of measures for the recovery of tourism in island regions and in the outermost regions (orr), or the need for a budget line dedicated to sustainable tourism within the next multiannual financial framework (2021-2027). it also includes, at our request, the need to develop a long-term strategy for tourism that lays the foundations for the sector to be prepared for possible future crises.
in writing. tourism has been the most affected area by the pandemic. from here on out, the aim is to make sure that it is not the one who lasts the longest who feels the impact. this is in the interests of the economic stability of the member states, as well as the well-being of the millions of european workers whose livelihoods depend on tourism. the resolution is a good one, as it takes account of the major difficulties experienced by the european tourism sector in recent months, but it does not stop there. it looks at how the sector can strengthen and become more resilient to potential crises in the future. the sector will certainly not emerge from the crisis if we end up in a public health emergency again in the short term. europe therefore needs more coordination of rules, particularly as regards vouchers and refunds for cancelled trips, dissemination of information and criteria for examining the medical condition that determines whether a person is allowed to cross a border. while this parliament is calling for a comprehensive european strategy, the tourism sector in the member countries needs to benefit from more flexibility in national government spending to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. it is time to immediately implement the crisis management mechanism (cmm) that has been discussed for months. under european coordination and implemented by the public authorities of the member countries, this mechanism should provide the necessary guarantees to consumers, including in the event of the bankruptcy of tourism and travel companies. timely actions now can only strengthen the public's confidence in travel.
in writing. in her speech, ursula von der leyen, president of the european commission, said that in the previous crisis many young people had to leave their homes and inequalities between member states had increased, this time we will do things differently and better. i do not agree with the argument that the european union as a whole acted wrongly or badly in the last crisis. i think the casino measures in the last crisis were justified. the current european commission is built on the shoulders of josé manuel barroso and jean-claude juncker. if the casino measures had not been implemented in the previous crisis, we would not be able to implement in the current crisis the economic stimulus measures comparable to those of the united states and china. i welcome the agreement reached in the general council on the multiannual budget and the economic recovery. to emerge victorious from the global competitive crisis, negotiations with the european parliament must be concluded as soon as possible. the negotiations should increase investment in research, health and climate objectives. the negotiations should aim at the establishment of a common digital tax and a carbon cap.
in writing. this stimulus plan is a scam for france, which is still paying a heavy price for the rebates granted to the so-called "frugal" states: €7.6 billion a year from which the netherlands, sweden, austria, denmark and germany will benefit, this total rebate having historically been financed by france at 30%. france, already the second largest net contributor to the eu budget, would thus receive €40 billion of the €390 billion in direct subsidies. a fraud market, since it will actually have to repay around 66 billion euros. unless, of course, the famous 'european tax' is introduced by then, which is neither desirable nor realistic: the 'digital tax' is particularly difficult for the irish opposition. the failure of france to defend its interests can only be blamed on its leaders. the european and international press, unfortunately, was right to declare the dutch prime minister, who was very opinionated, the winner of these bitter negotiations. but this debacle is only the first manifestation of the insoluble financial difficulties that the european union faces following the departure of the united kingdom, and which an illusory european federalism will only precipitate.
in writing. indeed, the member states have managed to reach a complex and difficult agreement, showing that despite the difficulties, europe is able to come together and to seek compromises. for the first time in history, europe has agreed to a joint effort to share the financial burden. emergency challenges require emergency solutions, and the single debt mechanism is an expression of european solidarity, where the obligation to repay the debt will be based on the eu's own resources system, rather than resting on the shoulders of our citizens. however, there remain concerns about the multiannual financial perspective, which is of paramount importance, especially in these difficult times. the multiannual financial perspective must be geared towards overall eu recovery and growth. we cannot justify budget cuts in the social field and significant funding cuts in programmes such as 'horizon', 'erasmus+', 'esf+', 'digital europe' and others that are vital for long-term and sustainable growth in the eu. as our group chairman has said, europe is not only about shared solidarity but also about shared responsibilities, and we must ensure that the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights are guaranteed in the member states in order for the eu as a whole to move forward in unity, respecting and safeguarding the fundamental values.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic, with its dramatic cost in human, economic and social lives, imposes a collective duty of solidarity on the eu and its member states. the european council has finally reached an historic agreement, accepting a recovery fund to get the economy back on track as requested by the european parliament, and accepting the principle of a joint debt. however, further work is needed to ensure that the 2021-2027 mff is truly aligned with european objectives. parliament must be immediately and fully involved in the pursuit of this result in order to improve the council's agreement. in particular, a new system of the union's own resources is needed, the only instrument capable of safeguarding the eu budget and relieving pressure on national finances and european citizens. in addition, the eu budget must be protected against fraud and corruption by enhancing transparency and controls, and against systematic violations of the principles enshrined in article 2 teu, through an effective european mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in tackling an unprecedented crisis, the institutions must put people first, combining the economic, social and environmental aspects of every action, so that no european citizen is left behind.
in writing. it is a good omen for europe; a historic agreement was reached between european leaders, enabling europe as a whole to tackle the challenges it faces, including environmental ones, while giving it the chance to grow economically. after lengthy talks, this political agreement was essential to ensure that the funds would start to be invested where needed from next january. as the institution elected by the citizens, parliament's role in the negotiations is fundamental to ensuring that the needs of families and businesses spread across all european regions and across sectors are given the attention they need, leaving no one behind. i firmly believe that it is time to strengthen rather than limit our focus on digital transformation alongside environmental transformation, and that it is therefore wise to invest heavily in research and innovation to remain competitive with the rest of the global giants. the recovery fund agreed in the council is a monumental step for europe, not because it is perfect but because it shows how the european union has stood with its people and member countries in the hour of trial. following the unprecedented decisions taken at the height of the pandemic, a recovery fund focused on the most affected sectors, built on solidarity between member states, that meets immediate needs without abandoning our european priorities, was next. this europe of solidarity, which looks to the future but at the same time has a social conscience felt by citizens in practice, is filled with optimism for the future.
in writing. it is a beautiful sign that we have received at this historic address. it is a very positive feeling to see the european commission empathize with those citizens who have suffered the most in recent months in this unprecedented situation and with those citizens whose duties have required even more courage. a positive feeling has also been generated by the vision, but above all the will, that we are seeing to meet the tough targets that have been set for us to modernise and digitise industry and the economy, to make them cleaner, better for our health and for our own world. but when i look around i see places of the union that are in a different state from others. i see deaths occurring regularly in the seas around us. i see criminal circles using the same system that this union has defended for so many years. i do not see any solidarity in tackling this common challenge, as the president calls it, jointly. we know that it is a european challenge and we have known it for a long time. it's been too long to wait for solidarity. too many lives were lost. citizens in border countries can no longer wait for their fellow europeans to whip up their conscience. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's migration policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's migration policy.
a civilized society celebrates children and provides them with a safe environment in which to grow and learn. a society that allows the exploitation and abuse of its children is a sick society. digital media has put children at greater risk. reports of abuse have exploded in recent years and the majority are internet-related. the future and the mental state of an entire generation is threatened because evil people use the tools we have created to improve our lives, to take advantage of innocent people on the other side of the screen. this strategy should increase protection and ensure that every space is safe for our children: both physical and digital. enforcement is crucial. national authorities must have all the resources at their disposal to act and act quickly. but the responsibility also falls on the digital platforms themselves to see that there are strategies to protect, share information and make it easy for victims to report. we 're all responsible . . of .. of the (the president withdrew the floor to the speakers)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the women on board policy is like a cough syrup for a society that is out of balance. she's out of balance, we all know that. this cough syrup is supposed to help bring balance to what's currently out of balance. the fact that men always choose men when filling positions is based on the principle of similarity. but that's not going to get us anywhere as a society. i would like to point out, quite deliberately, as a german speaker, the elephant in the room which i have not yet been able to identify: it is also germany, it is also my country, which is blocking the women on board directive. i would like to make it quite clear: it is angela merkel who is blocking them. i wish - and i hope she hears the speech tomorrow, she hears it after - i wish for angela merkel to take her foot off the brake pedal of the women on board directive. i hope that she will go ahead and make it clear as the current head of the council presidency: it is a sign of respect to give women the participation in any place. it's a sign of respect. we earned it.
mr president, 25 years ago in china, the world made a promise: equal rights for men and women and equality for all women and girls on the planet. equal opportunities for men and women are also at the very heart of our european union: they are a true reflection of who we are. it is also reflected in the charter of fundamental rights of the union; the united nations itself has encouraged, in order to achieve a balance in decision-making, to take initiatives and to adopt temporary measures in order to accelerate this process. there is also the strategy for gender equality 2020-2025. and the sec also revised the code of conduct to be able to accelerate that balance in decision-making positions. not having women on the non-executive boards of publicly traded companies is to lose economic growth, is to lose prosperity and is to lose competitiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. there is no doubt that in that world all the diversity, all the talents and all the abilities of all men and women must be harnessed. we need inclusive leadership for the new challenges, not just demographic. the new challenges need inclusiveness, innovation, sustainability. we are leaders in gender equality in the european union because, of the 20 leading countries, 14 are member states, but none has yet had full inclusion. i therefore encourage the commission to co-educate, to break down stereotypes, to encourage women to be entrepreneurs and to achieve a fairer world.
mr. chairman, please! i think it's a shame that the directive has been stuck in the commission for a few years. it's a shame that in the 21st century, there are politicians who believe that a woman's place is in the home. it's a shame that women who have achieved success -- often with the support of other women -- are forgotten today. research shows that companies with at least 30% women on their boards have better financial performance and are less vulnerable to crisis. and we all know and we all see that many women, although they are better than men, are often denied the opportunity to take leadership positions because of the traditional perception of women's roles and because there is still a part of society that thinks that leadership should be taken by men. covid-19 has revolutionized the way we work, and remote work has in many cases challenged that male leadership. what matters in business today is holistic management, relationship building, communication, and also understanding and empathy. i think women are champions of this kind of leadership, and i believe that together, commissioner, in this term, we can break through that glass ceiling. and we're going to break through that glass ceiling with the support of men, smart men, and with the support of all the strong, responsible women. and that is what i wish for us and for all european women.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we're writing the year 2020. but sometimes it can feel as if we are still living in the early 20th century. the proportion of women on the boards of the largest european listed companies is now 28%, and many boards have no women at all. this also applies to publicly owned enterprises. what if it was the other way around? the competent women are out there, and there are many of them, but they're not in play. it's a waste of talent. it's not just fair that there's equality at the top - studies also show that it's good for the bottom line of companies. we already have quotas because there are employee representatives on the boards of public limited companies. so we know. i would therefore like to urge the commission and the council, as a member of the s&d group, to continue to work towards some firm targets, a minimum of 40% of each sex on the boards of europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you so much for your continuous support in our efforts towards a fair gender balance at decision—making levels. with regards to the legal basis, clarification on the legal basis will always be provided, and we continuously engage with member states. so this is a question of will. do we want equality for all at the european level or don’t we? this is what council has to decide. if we believe we are a union of equality, then the answer is natural: we need an eu directive. and yes, you are right: yes, we do need more men to support this, and this is not something about women only. it’s about better decision—making, because there is more diversity and there is strength in that diversity. we’ve been hearing how companies which have a diversified management, or at board level, make more profit, and this is data which we have. this is not a hunch that we have, this is scientific data which we have. so having qualified men and women at the decision—making levels means that there is the perspective of both halves of the population, and we are not wasting a lot of talent which is available. this is human capital we are talking about here, but we are wasting so much. there’s so much research: ilo, oecd, and they all point in the same direction. but this will not happen on its own. that is why i say we need the directive. we have waited and waited, and it didn’t happen. it will not happen naturally, unless we want to wait another hundred years – and i don’t think that is what we want, and so that is why we need to introduce mechanisms to make it happen. and when it happens, we won’t need the mechanism any more. this is not something forever. this is for some years, until we get that gender balance, and then we will not need the mechanism any more. i reiterate: diversity is a strength, and we are wasting that strength by not using the full potential of the many qualified women which we have. it’s really a shame, and i really can’t understand. i’ve tried to understand. i’ve listened to all the arguments here, and it’s not about wanting to be in the boardroom. it’s about making use of all this potential and working together, and making use of this strength in diversity. so really, i think that people who want to understand this can understand it. i will keep on working with the member states who have yet to be convinced that this is the right way forward. but equality will not be achieved unless we act decisively. we’ve been tottering on this for far too long: too many years. i want to use this platform which you have given me today to urge council to act now. women have waited long enough.
the president of the council. the commission is not i would also like to thank you again for pointing out that i speak for the council and not just for my government. i am extremely grateful to the honourable member for raising an important point once again. if we see gender equality and equal rights as a women's issue, then we will all fail. it is about men and women living up to their responsibilities. that is why i am as pleased as you are about every man who is taking part in this debate today. i also have the impression that there is a broad consensus - at least among large sections of the european parliament, but also among the council and, of course, the commission - to make the european union a union of equality. the council is admittedly still debating controversial legal provisions. i have the impression that this has been expressed here in the european parliament, but i have also highlighted some positive examples. i would like to remind you that we also made a big step forward last year with the directive on work-life balance. because we all know - and not just women - how difficult it is to reconcile work and family in everyday life. this is particularly evident in this crisis. if you ask me what concrete steps the presidency intends to take in the coming weeks, i would first of all like to remind you that on 13 october - unfortunately in a videoconference - the ministers for employment and social affairs will debate the issue of equality between women and men in the labour market, and that in an informal council meeting in november the issue of gender equality will be discussed again with the relevant ministers. we really want to - and i therefore see this debate as a back wind to the council's commitment - to take this issue forward in our presidency. i would also like to mention another project which is very close to my heart, because the initiative was also developed from within the council. it is something that we do not know in my country and in most other countries, namely gender mainstreaming. we have introduced this for the multiannual financial framework. this is at least part of our negotiating mandate, that all european union spending should be checked to see if it benefits men and women equally. this is a major paradigm shift, which also makes one thing clear: we must not underestimate one of europe's values, namely the value of learning from and with one another, of moving forward without prejudice and of allowing the strengths of others to become the strengths of each other. thank you for this inspiring debate and thank you for letting me be here today.
in writing. with the policies and laws we have introduced in the past years, i believe we have seen a leap forward in the recognition of gender equality despite the regressive sentiment that is unfortunately rising in some parts of this union. although there have been changes, the old social structures that place women at a disadvantage take time to address. to see tangible change we need a directive like the one under discussion, which has been stuck in the council for a long time, and which establishes a minimum of women who want to be around the decision-making table, both in the private and public sectors, to be implemented and in the shortest possible time. i've wasted enough female talent. we've waited too long for society to catch up. today studies and experience show us how more women around the table can bring more women. as more diverse contributions are made to shaping our future, our future will be better able to respond to the needs and realities of everyone. we haven't solved everything yet. we also need transparency and equality in pay and a better sharing of parenting and home responsibilities. but to achieve the profound changes and equality we believe in, it is important to take this step first. no one believes that a woman should be at the table just because she is a woman, but because she is a woman capable of making a full contribution. with such a law we can give a chance and bring about positive change.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, like many more i’m very concerned about the various reports of inadequate and inhumane conditions at the detention centres in saudi arabia for ethiopian migrants. the migrants from ethiopia and other countries, who had been working in northern yemen but were forced out by the houthi rebels, now face unimaginable cruelty, including being chained together in pairs and using their cell floors as toilets. saudi arabia has also been cracking down on illegal migrants, with at least 10 000 ethiopians on average being deported each month. but earlier this year ethiopian officials requested a moratorium because of the coronavirus pandemic, the news agency afp reports. the eu should work with the ethiopian authorities to help create enough space and quarantine facilities to welcome people back, to ensure they are not bringing coronavirus with them and that if individuals are repatriated to their home countries, it should be done in a dignified way. so therefore, we are calling on saudi arabia to fulfil its promise to launch an investigation into the allegations of cruelty in the detention centre.
madam president, the saudi government has spent billions of dollars as part of a communication strategy to improve its image in the international community. but let us not misunderstand, saudi arabia's human rights record is deplorable. the brutal murder of jamal khashoggi by saudi agents has not led to any high-level accountability being called into question. while prince mohammed bin salman is trying to redeem his coat of arms through communication efforts, saudi authorities are ordering waves of arbitrary arrests of dissidents, activists, intellectuals, members of the royal family. it is no wonder that the conditions of migrants, mainly ethiopians, are dramatic in this country, which, after all, does not know what human rights mean. no, it will not be enough to invite stars of culture or sport, or to host the g20 to hide atrocities and human rights violations in saudi arabia. but by participating in this strategy, we europeans are complicit, which is why we are asking for the european union's participation in the g20 to be downgraded and for clear political messages to be sent to saudi arabia in all our relations with that country to make the issue of human rights a priority.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, there are hundreds of them: men, pregnant women and children, locked in a single prison cell in a pestilent filth breathing death and disease. those who try to escape are sometimes tortured and summarily executed. this is what 16,000 ethiopian migrants, proud descendants of the queen of sheba, are reduced to in saudi jails. beyond the ego, let us admit that we in the west are aware of the often deplorable treatment of migrants by some arab-muslims whose atrocities are extreme cases. is it not hypocritical to speak out against kafala today, when in 2010 the 2022 fifa world cup was awarded to qatar, whose use of this form of quasi-slavery was widely known at the time? the tragedy of ethiopian migrants illustrates the double standard that governs the global migration crisis. on the one hand, europe is being asked to open its doors wide to a tide of people from africa and the middle east, and on the other hand, the inhumanity and cynicism of the gulf states, which reject their own fellow believers, especially syrians, and expel military personnel, at the rate of 10,000 a month, in the case of ethiopian nationals. this tragedy demonstrates the impasse in the development of so many sub-saharan african states, caught between the population explosion and the lack of economic opportunities. in ethiopia, at the end of 2018, there were 2.9 million internally displaced people, with no sustainable solution being found. in desperation, many will join the ranks of those seeking exile, sometimes at the cost of their lives and freedom.
madam president, the situation of ethiopian migrants in saudi arabian prison is just the last episode of a long list of human rights violations in the country. since march, over 30 000 people, including pregnant women and children, have been arbitrarily detained in unthinkable sanitary conditions. we are all aware of the importance of saudi arabia as a partner for the european union and for the stability in the middle east. however, this cannot be an excuse for the eu to ignore those violations. we all remember jamal khashoggi, raif badawi, loujain al-hathloul and the woman activists, and also prince salman bin abdul aziz and the princess basmah, arbitrarily detained for years. the eu cannot remain silent or use double standards. the sharing of our fundamental values and the respect of human rights must be an essential condition in our relations with third countries. for this reason, with this resolution we strongly urge president von der leyen and charles michel to reconsider, or downgrade, the eu participation in the g20 summit in november. and finally, this would be an opportunity for the eu to show coherence with its values and not to legitimise impunity for the crimes committed in saudi arabia.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, my colleagues high representative borrell and commissioner lenarčič are travelling to addis ababa with the last eu humanitarian air bridge flight. this humanitarian air bridge flight is very specific in its nature as it aims at bringing support to the african union and the africa centres for disease control and prevention to be further distributed in african countries. it will be the third and last shipment to addis, the most significant one, and also the last humanitarian air bridge flight organised by the european union jointly with germany. besides the covid—19 component, the joint visit to addis is extremely timely. regarding the african union, it will be an opportunity to keep the momentum of a strengthened european union-african union partnership despite the postponement of the summit. with ethiopian partners, it will be an opportunity to express our concerns over the political situation in the run—up to the elections. we have seen the shocking reports about african migrants, mainly ethiopians, reportedly held under dreadful conditions in detention centres in saudi arabia. we also understand that earlier this week, eight ethiopians died and 12 went missing off the coast of djibouti after failing to reach yemen. we knew already that the conflict in yemen has created the world’s gravest humanitarian crisis. however, what we are discussing today shows that it also makes the situation of many migrants in the region close to unbearable. despite the conflict, migration continues. the conflict in yemen provides a fertile breeding ground for trafficking and smuggling networks, which profit from desperate african citizens looking for a better life in the gulf. we are taking this situation seriously, and are following up and helping where we can. the eu delegation in riyadh has raised the conditions in detention centres with the saudi ministry of foreign affairs. labour rights and migration management are indeed issues we want to discuss more regularly with our saudi interlocutors. there are indeed things to be said. last week, high representative borrell received the saudi foreign minister and reaffirmed the european union’s interest in a structured human rights dialogue in which migration features prominently. we hope to launch this dialogue soon. we are also reinforcing our engagement with the countries of origin in the horn of africa. today, the high representative and commissioner lenarčič are in ethiopia. they will visit an international organization for migration transit centre where ethiopian deportees, including from the gulf, are quarantined upon arrival. we have recently provided eur 60 million to the horn of africa intergovernmental authority (igad) to address the impact of covid—19. this aid will also benefit migrants. we are eager to encourage a region—to—region dialogue on migration management between the horn and the gulf, as proposed by the intergovernmental authority on development. we also hope that the soon—to—be—launched red sea council can provide a platform for this. more broadly, in our external action we are committed to, and indeed an advocate for, the protection of the human rights of all migrants. the recently adopted eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2020—2024 calls for the protection of migrants, refugees and internally displaced persons. it also calls for support measures to improve integration and access to basic services. in our times of covid—19 this is, of course, even more important. in third countries we strive to have migrants and forcibly displaced persons benefit from healthcare systems and include these groups in strategies related to covid—19.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
ladies and gentlemen, samuel paty, a history and geography teacher in yvelines, france, was brutally murdered on friday by an islamist terrorist because he believed in freedom of expression, because he wanted to teach his students freedom of thought, openness and the values of living together. five years after the charlie hebdo attack, showing a cartoon of muhammad in class is killing. fanaticism and intolerance kill. our thoughts are with the family and loved ones of samuel paty and all the teaching staff in france and elsewhere. terror is fought with education, with the teaching that samuel paty believed in and practiced. a benevolent and critical education, open to society, to the other, advocating dialogue and knowledge. this is a daily battle. it is committed by millions of teachers, who carry out their mission with courage and determination, and who need our support, the support of a society for which freedom of expression is a fundamental value and a major principle. it is with great emotion that i propose that you observe a minute's silence in tribute to samuel paty, to all the victims of terrorism and to all those who fight it every day by their work, their commitment and their example. (the house adopted the resolution)
and now, to the order of business. the final draft was distributed as approved by the conference of presidents on 15 october under rule 157. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda. friday: the second round of voting will be open from 1.15 to 2.30 p.m. and the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5 p.m. a third round of voting will be added, which will be open from 6 p.m. to 7.15 p.m. and the results of the third round will be announced at 9.30 p.m. are there any objections? there are no objections. this amendment is approved. i should also like to inform you that, depending on the number of amendments tabled, the votes scheduled for the various rounds have been redistributed. information on the distribution of votes is available on parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. i would also remind you that this redistribution may be subject to further changes, depending on the final number of amendments and the number of requests for separate and distinct votes. the order of business is so fixed. we will begin the first debate and i will hand over the presidency to mrs dobrev. i would remind everyone that we are in a state of emergency, but you know this, that the pandemic situation is still plaguing our countries, that it is growing, and it is natural for us to have taken and adopted measures to contain the contagion, but at the same time to keep the activity of our parliament alive. it is with great regret that we have not been able to move our plenary session to strasbourg this time, but we have had to limit our presence and take extraordinary measures, also because of the conditions in belgium and brussels. you know that colleagues in the member states will be able to use the national offices of the european parliament to take part in the debate. this is the first time this has happened, but it felt right. i therefore thank all the political groups for adopting a measure which enables us to keep european democracy alive.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all, may i remark that it is very symbolic today that the first discussion being undertaken by this parliament by digital means, to give access to all our members to participate, will be held on the digital services act (dsa). after months of negotiations, more than 1 000 amendments in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and a lot of hard work, this committee agreed on a progressive and robust report on the digital services act. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs working with me on the imco report for their transparency and also for their cooperation. i do not think that we would have been able to achieve this tangible positive result without all the support, which i hope you can confirm in tomorrow’s vote in the same way that you did during the negotiations and the vote in the committee on the internal market and consumer affairs. today we are discussing all three dsa reports. despite the fact that they are interlinked, they all have different scopes. the imco report is the one that deals with the comprehensive revision of the 20-year-old e-commerce directive and the first—ever internal market ex—ante instrument in the digital sector. the e—commerce directive is one of the most essential pieces of union legislation and the foundation of the digital single market as we know it today. digital transformation has profoundly changed the functioning of the global economy and of our societies, which requires an update to improve the situation in several areas. the digital services act will be this first update to the legal framework on online services after 20 years. the report therefore sets the internal market and consumer protection priorities on how digital services, including online platforms and marketplaces, should be – and must be – regulated in the future. the committee recommendations touch upon a range of issues. however, some of the fundamental points and measures that the commission must, and should, introduce in the dsa are as follows. first of all, introduce the principle that what is illegal offline should also be illegal online, together with consumer protection and also user—safety principles. the second point is to extend the scope of the dsa to companies established outside europe, mainly the ones targeting our european market, our european consumers and our european citizens. the third point is that the online harmful business models’ manipulation and discriminatory practices, designed to maximise user attention dedicated to the platform based on illegal or sensationalist content, must be addressed through privacy and accountability measures such as the ‘know your business customer’ principle. the ‘know your business customer’ is a new obligation on platforms to check and stop fraudulent companies from using their services. such a measure would reduce the number of illegitimate traders and illegal activities online. the commission must promote transparent advertising practices that do not track our consumers and users through the net. to this end, the dsa should include stricter measures on harmful advertising practices, digital nudging, microtargeting, recommended systems for advertisement, and also preferential treatment. another essential element in my report is targeted measures on online marketplaces and here we have dedicated a whole chapter in our report targeting online marketplaces such as amazon and alibaba. consumers should be equally safe when shopping online or in stores and the commission must, and should, address and reinforce liability for online marketplaces. the report also deals with the e-commerce directive’s fundamental parts, dealing with the liability regime when removing illegal content online. finally, we are also proposing, for the first time in the digital sector, ex—ante rules to tackle the digital players’ uncompetitive practice. the commission must, and should, introduce this as a separate instrument from competition policy. i would like to conclude by saying that i am hopeful that we can get your support for the imco report in tomorrow’s vote and that this institution will send a strong message to the commission on the measures to be included in the dsa.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr garcia del blanco, for his excellent report, which i am sure will be very useful to the house. the framework of ethical principles for artificial intelligence is the first legislative initiative report in the package on artificial intelligence, drawn up in parliament. the position of the european parliament which we shall adopt this week will undoubtedly be essential in the future european legislation. the report is the result of long and complex negotiations between all the political groups, which started from very different positions, and also of the work done with the seven parliamentary committees which have issued opinions. on behalf of the rapporteur, mr ibán garcía del blanco, i would like to thank everyone for their work and commitment to achieving a completely new set of rules, which puts europe at the forefront of creating a set of rules that will allow technological advances to be transformed into benefits for all. the legislative report contains a proposal for a resolution with recommendations to the commission and a proposal for a european regulation laying down the ethical principles applicable to the development, deployment and use of artificial intelligence, robotics and related technologies in the union. artificial intelligence is presented to us as a technology with the potential to change the world as we know it, offering great opportunities and carrying great risks. our proposal is a balance between ensuring citizens' confidence and security in new technologies and supporting innovation in europe. it is a proposal that respects technological neutrality and provides a suitable future framework to respond with solvency and responsibility to the rapidity of change. our report is based on the creation of a regulatory framework of ethical principles that is binding for software, algorithms and data in artificial intelligence, robotics and related technologies that are developed, implemented or used in the european union. all technologies operating in europe must respect this anthropocentric perspective. the human dignity, autonomy and security of citizens cannot be called into question, and we must also ensure that fundamental rights are respected and that the union is legal. technologies that involve a breach of these principles will not be allowed to operate in europe, regardless of where they are produced, whether they are supported or in the cloud. secondly, we have agreed on a risk-based approach. technologies that may have a significant risk of causing harm or damage to 'both citizens and society as a whole', breaching fundamental rights or breaking union law shall be considered to be high risk. to assess these risks, we have established objective criteria, taking account of the sector, the uses or purposes and the severity of the damage or harm they may cause. this definition is intended to avoid legal loopholes. a comprehensive list of sectors and uses considered to be high risk is also included, such as education, health, employment and recruitment of workers, finance and credit, automated vehicle transport, public administration decisions or environmental issues. where an application or technology is considered to be high risk, it should ensure compliance with a number of legal requirements and obligations: ensuring human control, strict security standards, transparency, explainability and accountability, data reliability, non-discrimination and elimination of bias in algorithms and automated decision results, with very strict privacy safeguards in the case of remote sensing with biometric data and the requirement to apply the most rigorous governance standards. in parliament we also want to ensure that artificial intelligence is environmentally sustainable and socially responsible, because an ethical artificial intelligence is democratic, egalitarian, respects workers and intellectual property, cultural diversity and the right to digital illustration. and that is why we call on the member states and the union to direct investment in research to projects which offer a social or environmental benefit. to ensure the democratic development of technologies, both european and national authorities will need to maintain a dialogue with stakeholders, including civil society, trade unions, establish governance parameters and standards, and provide support to smes and start-ups. in addition to setting the principles, we must monitor compliance with these obligations. our model strengthens european coordination and lists the tasks to be carried out, including establishing mandatory guidelines for the assessment of compliance with ethical principles. when they have been tested, a european certificate of conformity with the ethical principles is issued. this guarantee or quality seal will be voluntary for those technologies which are not high risk. each member state shall designate an independent authority responsible for applying these guidelines, issuing the european certificate and carrying out continuous monitoring of compliance with the ethical principles, and shall provide it with sufficient means and resources. the commission should assess which existing or future bodies and agencies can fulfil these tasks. with the rapporteur, my group believes that a european agency for artificial intelligence will be an added value in achieving a common objective, shared by all the members of this house: to make the european union the world leader in ethical artificial intelligence, which puts the human being at the centre of its development and which guarantees our principles and values.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, my report is now on liability and artificial intelligence, and i would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs very warmly because we have had a very cooperative spirit here which has brought us further forward, but which ultimately also sends a strong signal, both to the commission and to the member states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and has also been involved in the development of the european information society. artificial intelligence is of particular importance and challenge in this context and is of strategic relevance for our overall economic development. we will only be able to compete effectively if we actually have a digital single market, because otherwise we are simply too fragmented compared to other regions of the world. and that is why i think that the member states must also go within themselves and go beyond their own powers and say that it is in everyone's interest if we also talk about civil liability. you can't just block it and then say that's our area of expertise. no, this is about a digital single market, about all of our progress. we are therefore also basically calling for a regulation on this, and we are really serious about this, particularly with regard to the digital single market. what made us do this? we want the individual to receive compensation as per the normal national criminal law. but we also want him to not have to explain whether it was the software, the hardware, the wrong operation or the wrong algorithms. we just want him to be compensated. we also want to comply with existing liability regulations from the member states. we do not want to be hampered by artificial intelligence and its systems, and we want to move forward. why do we think this is important? we're in the middle of developing that. we therefore need a clear vision of things, legal certainty, legal clarity, a fully harmonised framework, not fragmentation, to exclude here the different applications in the internal market. we also want clarity - not by the supreme courts after five to eight years - and we want to fill legal gaps. but that is why there is no over-regulation in the end, that is why the whole thing is not a revolution, but merely the connection of corresponding high-risk artificial intelligence systems to what already exists, and this connection to the existing law we also consider reasonable. we must therefore keep in mind that we as the legal affairs committee cannot provide a coherent system at the moment because we simply cannot take account of certain things because of internal regulations. the aim here is to limit ourselves to high-risk applications, because we think that's the only thing that makes sense, to provide it with the appropriate liability. other risk-based ai systems are subject to the normal legal consequences of liability in any event. we want to have a clear list of ai systems for legal clarity, and we want to be flexible as legislators so that we can also quickly point out rapid changes by delegating to the commission. in addition, the question of non-material damage is also raised, and we ask the commission to consider whether there is a need for harmonisation here too.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, the internet is a vital part of our lives and our economy. because of this, we all should want an internet that reflects our european values, while being a fair single market for businesses to compete in. this is what the renew europe group wants and this is what is in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) report, and for this, i thank the rapporteur. renew europe wants any future european regulation to respect what makes the internet great, which is the freedom to speak your mind, to upload your creations and to, at the click of a button, share new innovations and new business models which change the world. we don’t want to over-regulate. the reason why we have this internet we love is because we set down very basic rules in europe and then got out of the way. we let the internet grow organically. we let innovation and start-ups run free, and here we are 20 years later. governments should not get in the way of a global system that is working well. governments should especially not get in the way of the freedom of speech online. this must be equally true for the eu as a whole. at the same time, a lot of things in the digital world have changed in 20 years – just look at where this debate is happening. one of these changes is the growth of internet giants. the renew europe group is not against such companies that millions of users use and trust. nevertheless, we must make sure they play fairly with other companies and take a greater role in social responsibility. we, however, don’t want to force actions where they are not needed – regulation for the sake of regulation. artificial barriers to foreign companies and the creation of false european champions are not the answer to a strong digital single market in europe. this is why we call on the commission to keep this balanced approach as we work on the digital services act and the digital market act.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. we have spoken a lot in recent months about how europe wants to achieve technological autonomy. the report under discussion today is an important step in this direction. the global market dominated by the giants is costing small european companies while hurting consumers. recognising the digital nature of platforms requires increasing the responsibilities they have to bear. to better protect the consumer, digital platforms should be expected to verify the identity of their service providers. not only that, but we need a clear protocol for platforms to take action on illegal content in their spaces. tourists and passengers deserve good treatment. this means a transparent service and that the consumer is sufficiently informed to make the best choices for him. we only have a fair market if everyone enjoys the data we generate all the time. these are the elements we need for a less fragmented and more consolidated market that protects the most vulnerable and safeguards rights.
president, commissioner, this particular subject shows that the market does not wait for the legislator. artificial intelligence offers opportunities, but it also brings with it threats. a lot has been said. i will not go into the substance of that as a former lawyer. a minute and a half is far too short for that. but i call on the commission to ensure that we do not become dependent on chinese or american companies. i call on the commission to ensure that european data does indeed remain in europe. we can now make the rules that give us a head start on the rest of the world. we have to think about the content of that. artificial intelligence and data are the oil of the future. if we take the lead in this, europe will also have much to offer. it is very important to us that artificial intelligence and the legislation proposed for it should remain human-centred. after all, we make the laws, not the artificial intelligence. artificial intelligence should help to enable active ageing and reintegrate older people into our society. 50% of the european population is 50 years or older. so half of them are older in the eyes of young people. but young people are eager to reach their 50's. so we speak for everyone in that regard. good legislation is important for everyone. i therefore welcome the commission's proposals.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all my thanks to all the colleagues who participated in this very interesting discussion. i want to start my last intervention by quoting, as my colleague tiemo did, the social dilemma: if you are not paying for it then you are the product. and this is the idea that we are fighting throughout our report, by increasing transparency, by increasing consumer protection – we must never treat our citizens just as simple products. today we are living in a world where digital services and platforms are essential in our social and economic lives. just imagine the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic on our lives without digital infrastructure and without digital industries. these digital services basically helped us to continue with our commercial and social lives. but online platforms and digital services have largely evolved during the past 20 years and therefore, as eu legislators, we need to catch up. the ideas that we are moving forward in our reports are aiming at this target. therefore we are directly asking the commission to be ambitious, as we were in our reports, by introducing in its proposal these concepts: know your business customer principle, and know your business customer principle not only for online marketplaces but for all digital service providers; ex ante rules for digital sectors; special responsibilities for online marketplaces to guarantee consumer safety; stricter controls on targeted advertising and the ai mechanism; and a scope that will encompass companies established outside the eu which are targeting us and targeting our consumers. i want also to reply to a comment made by one of our colleagues and make it totally clear that our proposal is stating explicitly that what we are proposing is without prejudice to the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd), to copyright law and to specific legislation. i hope that the report will gain your support in tomorrow’s vote.
mr president, commissioner, the problem of selling passports, the so-called golden visas, is certainly important for the union, but much more important is the problem of replacing the european population by bringing migrants from africa and the middle east, called refugees for political correctness here. you, colleagues on the left, have supported and continue to support the import of people into europe. during the biggest migration push, hundreds, maybe thousands of isis fighters came out of europe. today they live here and await the moment when your extreme marxism and liberal bolshevism will lead to the collapse of the european nation states and they will see in this collapse a chance to establish their so-called caliphate. i remind you of the nationality of the chechen islamist who beheaded the french professor. he was a legal immigrant, a refugee. people applying for citizenship are educated, have professions and come from poorer countries to seek opportunities offered by each eu member state. remember, to obtain a passport, a person must undergo a series of checks. the process is many times more complex and restrictive than that of an illegal refugee obtaining a residence document and crossing freely the union's borders. the biggest and most serious problem is not a few cases of bought passports each of them can be traced and investigated. the biggest problem is that there are thousands of criminals, fighters of terrorist organizations, who are untraceable and come here disguised as migrants and refugees. and it's your fault.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for sharing your views and concerns with this house. the commission shares most of the comments made, at least on the specific subject of passports and investment visas. the commission has raised these concerns on a number of occasions, including in this parliament. some of you may have wished the commission to have launched infringement proceedings earlier. the commission first tried to find a political solution on the basis of a dialogue with the member states concerned, as i recalled. i have been in contact with the countries concerned since last december to ask them to withdraw from these programmes. the continuation of the programmes in question now requires us to initiate infringement proceedings. the opening of infringement proceedings is the last step in efforts that have been ongoing for several years to address the concerns raised by monetary schemes that result in the acquisition of eu citizenship. the commission encourages both cyprus and malta to continue their screening of successful applications that was launched following the recent scandals. i know that there are many questions about the citizenship that cyprus and malta have already granted. in accordance with the applicable rules and respecting due processes, naturalisation should be revoked wherever necessary. the question concerning retroactivities needs to be carefully assessed and it is premature to take a position on this now. we have not even gone to the court of justice and are even further away from a judgment, but we need to continue to have discussions about such issues. there were also some remarks about the necessity to finance the different budgets in the different member states. fostering investment is of course a legitimate goal for any country to pursue, in particular during these difficult times. however, this should not be done at any cost. eu citizenship is a collection of shared rights that all member states provide in solidarity. schemes that result in the selling of citizenship for the sole benefit of an individual member state could be seen as exploiting this common achievement. as you know, we have proposed a recovery plan of unprecedented size to protect lives and livelihoods, repair the single market and build a lasting and prosperous recovery. this is proof of strong european solidarity in the face of the enormous challenge our economies face. it would send the wrong signal if one member state were seen to take economic measures that go against this solidarity among all member states. ladies and gentlemen, the commission will continue to defend the values and rights of citizenship of the union. you can count on his full commitment and my personal commitment to defending a common european citizenship, based on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. these values are not for sale and the commission takes its responsibility to prevent them from being. we will continue our actions with regard to both passports and investment visas issued in the european union, in the candidate countries and in other third countries. residence schemes, as i said in my introductory remarks, are different from citizenship schemes in terms of rights granted, but entail similar risks. they are governed by national law but interact with eu law. the commission will continue to monitor the situation closely, in particular to ensure that the necessary border and security checks are carried out. and i would like to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking you not only for your attention but above all for your support for the actions undertaken and to be undertaken in this field.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. other i have respect for the european institutions and their work, including our members of parliament, to uphold the treaties that define european identity and values. according to those treaties themselves, citizenship is a national duty. there should therefore be no interference that would undermine the rights of a sovereign country. i believe that such initiatives should not be politicised. several member countries offer citizenship and residence schemes. each programme is different from the others. allegations on one programme, however well founded, should not cast a shadow on all programmes, when they include the most rigid standard of verification. the european union may recommend a number of elements it expects to be included in a residence or citizenship programme offered by a member country. we have to agree on the knowledge and qualifications that a licensed professional must have to sell such schemes. it must intervene to stop the social, educational and medical investment made in a number of countries by such programmes. disapproval by member countries is not a sufficient reason to set up citizenship and residence schemes in other countries. our disapproval of certain industries that fuel our close conflicts, has never offered these strategic industries to certain members. we can improve these programmes without destroying them.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. in 2010, the hungarians, of their own free will, overthrew the corrupt left that was bringing the country to the brink of bankruptcy and trampling on people's basic rights, and decided to give fidesz and the kdnp a two-thirds parliamentary majority. immediately after the democratic decision, the left began to incite hatred, a series of violent attacks, which were summarized in the tavares report of the european parliament accusing hungary of dozens of lies. already in this left-wing political pamphlet, there was all the lies and slander that had been constantly being uttered since then, from the bloodguilt of anti-semitism, corruption, the stigma of populism, the alleged death of press freedom, to the lies about attacks on the institutions of the rule of law. in 2014, despite attacks from the left, hungarians again voted for fidesz by a two-thirds majority. the hungarian and european left already considered the decision of the hungarians as a direct provocation and even more vehemently insulted hungary. especially after 2015, when the pro-immigration majority in the ep came together against the anti-immigration hungary. these indecent attacks have also been summarised in the european parliament. the sargentini report was voted on with great skill and the article 7 procedure was opened against hungary. in 2018, the left was already slandering it with a slit throat, but the hungarians again supported fidesz with a two-thirds majority. the left came to the conclusion that the hungarians did not understand the threats of the past, so the period of systematic and ruthless punishment came. well, this criminal action is called, with the historical absurdity of the left, the rule of law mechanism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important debate. the 2021 budget. one of the few powers the european parliament has is precisely the time of the budget. and so we must, on the one hand, find the courage to dare and, on the other hand, find the courage not to continue to make mistakes, because the next budget that is put forward for someone is worth +15 billion, that is, 15 billion more are being asked from the taxpayers. and then you have to figure out where you want to find the courage to find those 15 billion. and i say, let's ask the chinese government! we ask those who created a global epidemic to compensate our families, our companies and our economy. europe has this great opportunity: we are expecting an entry in the european budget as compensation from the chinese government. we cannot imagine once again that this money will be found in the pockets of the italian people and the pockets of the european people. it is equally important to make a budget which looks to help our businesses, to help our bars, our merchants, our handicrafts and our manufacturing industries, which are in serious crisis; the same jobs, in italy but also in europe, are in serious crisis. so on the one hand we find the resources by asking the chinese government, which created the drama of this epidemic, on the other hand we also cut the waste, we cut the strasbourg headquarters: we have seen that it is not necessary, that you can operate from milan with what i would call unique efficiency, without having to move and have a location in strasbourg with the associated costs. we also cut agencies, the agencies in the seychelles or agencies like that, the last one i read, on gender equality, on parent one and parent two... we're gonna be doing the water agency or the seven-and-a-half agency or the butterfly agency... i don't know what we're gonna be wasting money on. i am of course opposed to a budget like this, which still provides money for libya, money for turkey, money for the integration of the roma, money for reception. i say that this budget should also have the courage to zero in on the share of vat that goes into the pockets of the european union. italian citizens pay 2 billion in vat to the european union every year. so the european union with this budget gives up 2 billion and leaves those 2 billion in the pockets of the italian citizens, who really need it.
member of the commission. the commission is not i would like to thank parliament for this very detailed and engaging debate. there was a wealth of suggestions which will certainly be the subject of intensive discussions in the coming weeks. i am not sure that all the suggestions can be implemented because it is possible that a deal with china on the reimbursement of damages or compensation will not be possible until the beginning of january. but we will still try to provide the money - namely the money for the citizens who really need it now, also to keep their businesses afloat, so to speak, the money to ensure that the jobs remain secure. we have the sure instrument. we had another very successful auction yesterday to provide the funds so that funds could be made available, especially in those countries which have not yet seen this instrument, during the short working time phase. we will then, when the relevant decisions are made, have react-eu, an instrument that will retroactively - as the name suggests - allow, in the middle of early february this year, the costs incurred by the covid crisis to be recovered. so there's a whole host of possibilities. i would also like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that the council is not the only one to be involved in the negotiations. because budgeting is one thing, but taking advantage of opportunities is another. and at the european level, this is essentially done on the basis of sectoral legislation, which is the basis for how these funds can be spent. and even then, on top of that, there is still a need for appropriate programming, which must also be carried out in order to actually make sure that the funds arrive where they are needed, namely with the citizens, with the entrepreneurs, with the researchers, with the creatives of this country. that means that we made a big move yesterday with the multiannual budget. but now it's about getting things done - that's the key - and there's no time to lose and therefore full attention to the 2021 budget. the negotiations will begin next week and must be completed in three weeks.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 november 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. after lengthy negotiations, the european parliament and the council reached a preliminary agreement on the eu budget for 2021-2027. the european institutions have shown responsibility and care for today's and tomorrow's generations by developing new programmes such as next generation eu, designed to stimulate economic recovery after the covid-19 pandemic. romania, through negotiations in the council, is the fourth country in terms of budget allocation after poland, spain and italy, with a significant increase compared to the allocations in the previous budget. reducing economic, social and territorial disparities will be possible through the money dedicated to cohesion policy, while romanian agriculture and rural areas will benefit from increased budgets under the common agricultural policy. the new budget also comes with significant increases for the eu as a whole through: the european health programme, erasmus, research and security of the external borders. even if some states want to veto the eu's multiannual budget, the successful conditionality of eu funds to the rule of law is a real victory for democracy and the values of the european union. it is time for member states to show vision and create future projects to attract european money into sustainable investment projects.
in writing. – as i look forward, i want to be positive. the year 2021 can be the first year of the post-covid recovery. if we want to recover, we need a strong eu budget that allows us to recover. for this reason, the budget 2021 has my support. the parliament is sending a strong message to eu citizens and businesses that says - we are ready to support you, we will stand by you! i would like to highlight the positive provisions in terms of social cohesion, support to smes, gender equality and sustainable tourism. the hardly hit tourism sector needs robust assistance to recover sustainably. islands will also be given specific attention through the connecting europe facility. eu funds must be dedicated to recovery. the leitmotif of the recovery must be resilience. we must build a resilient economy that defends citizens, families and businesses. an economy ready to sustain future shocks, ensuring for europe the place it deserves in the global arena.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, since the last term, i have had citizens reporting that as soon as their product warranty expires, the device breaks down. they're convinced it's an internal malfunction that's forcing them to buy a new device. recent research has shown that devices today actually last less than the ones our mothers or grandmothers bought. it is estimated that this adds up to a financial burden per household member of as much as eur 110 per month. industry claims that consumers buy new because they want, maybe, a new design -- that might be true of shoes, but they certainly don't buy a new freezer or stove because a new model is out. i call on all colleagues to support a strong ban on embedded defects on the unfair business practices directive blacklist. it's something our citizens want and nothing less than a ban like that will bring about real change in the market. we all know how frustrating it is when you want to fix a piece of equipment that you've spent a good chunk of your household budget on, but you can't because the spare part is too expensive or it's not on the market at all. we used to be able to replace the battery on our cell phone very cheaply by ourselves, but today it's buried deep inside the device. we've gotten to the point where the cost of replacing a cell phone battery is prohibitive compared to the cost of a new device. up to 80% of such failures can be easily remedied in the design phase. this report lays the foundations for the introduction of the right to repair, calls for better availability and reasonable prices of spare parts, and strengthens the repair sector and second-hand markets. in fact, studies have shown that reuse and recycling create more new jobs than throwing away or even recycling. to truly change the buy-take-throw model that our economy is based on, it's crucial to inform consumers! our citizens have a right to know what they're spending their money on. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'recycled' to cover the use of waste water. studies have shown that consumers are even willing to pay more for a product that lasts longer and can be repaired more easily. our job is to give them a choice. but we have to do everything in our power to make a sustainable lifestyle not just the privilege of the rich, but of all those who care about the environment. the economic crisis as a consequence of the health crisis is forcing us to think outside the box and to think about how to create new jobs, save citizens' money, and at the same time achieve the ambitious goal of making europe a climate-neutral continent by 2050. this report links all these objectives and i call on all colleagues to show during the vote that the green new deal is not an empty promise but an opportunity for economic growth, environmental protection and consumer rights!
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a choice to be spearheads of the ecological transition. we did it together and we saw our weaknesses and our blind spots. today we must prove that we are able to adapt and emerge victorious from the crisis. this is also true of the great european achievement of the single market. today, it is our duty to create a circular economy with more sustainable production and consumption, to make our european industry more resilient and self-sufficient. to do this, it is imperative to review our entire ecosystem, including the single market. every area must be studied, targeted, nothing must be forgotten. several european countries have already begun to regulate in this area. i recall the french experience in 2018 with the anti-waste law brought by brune poirson. it is up to us at european level to affirm our ambition and make this fight the norm within the european union. sustainable consumption must become our default choice. today we are proposing a strategy based on the principles of sustainability, consumer protection, competitiveness and fair competition. we call for the establishment of a right to repair of products because, as has been said, we are all consumers and we all want to see our rights strengthened , to fight against the practices of planned obsolescence which are a reality , to better inform consumers, to guarantee an effective right of appeal, to introduce sustainability criteria in public tenders and reciprocity with third countries to make public procurement greener and more innovative. so far we have done a very difficult job and i want to thank mr cormand, all the other fictitious rapporteurs and all the colleagues on the committee on the internal market. it is hard work, but it is very constructive work. but to succeed we must overcome our individuality in the plenary and we must overcome our political divisions, because the greater our commitment and the more united we are in the european parliament, the stronger our influence will be. every citizen must be able to enjoy genuine freedom of choice, but to be free, one must be informed and have appropriate and dignified protection. let's develop that ambition and take action. there are risks and costs involved, but they are far less than those of uncomfortable inaction. change is the law of life and those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future. we hope that our voice will be heard and that, thanks to your proposals, we will make europe a pioneer in sustainable innovation and growth.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr cormand is a combination of a few good observations with a lot of wishful thinking and unrealistic demands. does the single market have its drawbacks? of course i did. competition between producers, who compete primarily on price, has an effect on the durability of some products. but is this reason to believe that shortening the life cycle of a product is a deliberate and widespread action, as the rapporteur suggests? in the opinion of the ecr group, this report does not provide evidence to support this claim, and yet it suggests many new and costly administrative requirements for businesses. any new bureaucratic burden introduced hastily, without proper market analysis and research, will significantly affect prices and reduce the competitiveness of european companies. in times of economic crisis, that's a fatal prospect. the centralist approach, whereby the uninformed consumer must be led by the hand like a child, and every product should be essentially identical, is reminiscent of a reality that we remember all too well in the countries of real socialism. i can tell congressman corman with a clear conscience that this economic model didn't work then and it won't work now. consumers make conscious choices, they look for more durable and environmentally friendly products, if that is what they want to buy. entrepreneurs also want to be seen as more responsible and sustainable. whether or not they are credible in these endeavors is also part of the market competition. we should not interfere too much with it by means of prohibitions and injunctions, which will be another insurmountable barrier for many businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones. i hope that the commission will show more responsibility than the rapporteur and base its legislative proposals on sound data. instead of centralism and bureaucracy, we need pilot projects, consultancy, incentive systems for entrepreneurs and reliable information for consumers.
mr president, as we have so many people on our planet, it is essential to adapt our ways of producing and consuming in order to tackle environmental issues. new technologies can enable this. businesses should inform consumers correctly. consumers have the means and are willing to share their views on consumer platforms. this is the new digital way of effective and efficient supervision. however, this proposal is an example of the old way of working. to bring legal guarantees into line with the estimated lifetimes of products is unwise. a legal guarantee is a kind of insurance. if the duration goes up, the price will go up. a guarantee does not stimulate consumers to be careful with their products. it will lead to more legal procedures and higher consumer prices. it will probably be beneficial for large corporations while diminishing the smaller ones. it will have a negative effect on innovation. it is the responsibility of national governments to think of ways to discourage over-consumption, and i hope they will.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i think we are all in agreement here, and we do not want to debate this for long. we want more sustainability in the european single market, especially for consumer products, and we also know that we can promote this sustainability through political and legal measures. but as the epp, we have opposed a whole series of proposals from the outset because they are contrary to the market-based approach we want to retain in europe - democracy without a planned economy. we have spoken out against exceptions to intellectual property rights, we have spoken out against the idea of introducing psychological obsolescence, and we have also spoken out against an eu advertising tax: we believe, and rightly so, because market principles - and the speakers before me have already mentioned this - help the supplier to win in competition who offers the best offer to the consumer, and it will be the most sustainable offer in the long term. i would like to make two or three points which are important because they do not need to be reinvented in this parliament. first of all, we need some legal certainty for manufacturers of consumer products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the directive on the sale of goods was renegotiated only in the last parliamentary term - the commissioner will have noted this - and the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and we have agreed together on a guarantee period which businesses and consumers must and can abide by. secondly, we need to have reliability in consumer information. consumers must be able to review the information that is attached to a product in order to make sustainable choices. the wealth of product information already available to consumers today is often unfortunately not clear. now, printing another mandatory consumer information on products, which ultimately only contains the estimated lifetime of a product, does not add value to the consumer. finally, there is the question of what is known as premature obsolescence, which means that technical products have a limited shelf life. of course it is not acceptable. but the proposal to declare unlawful even unplanned but premature obsolescence is as useless as what has been said by my colleagues before. because there is no way to predict exactly how long a product will last - it also depends very much on its use. we therefore believe, mr president, commissioner, that the commission should put forward proposals for improvement in the interests of consumers, but always with an impact assessment and taking account of market economy aspects.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr cormand for a very good report. let me make this clear right away: we will not achieve the goal of the green transition by simply setting binding targets for co2 reductions. we will only succeed if we have the courage and the courage to make a transformation of our entire society. and with this report we come from the committee on the internal market with some very concrete proposals on how we can ensure a greener, more sustainable internal market for the benefit of both consumers and businesses and our planet. the objective is clear: we must change the way we produce and consume, or we cannot protect our planet. we also need to ensure a way to have sustainable economic growth. this requires us to get the circular economy going, to promote the recycling sector and to ensure that the bill is not left to those who already have the least. in short, a sustainable green transition must go hand in hand with a fair green transition, and that is why i support our report. i think it's good. it launches a range of initiatives that not only enable consumers to participate in the green transition, but also ensure effective consumer protection along the way. let me highlight a few of the initiatives which i think are really important: a lot of europeans want to buy sustainably, but they do not have the necessary information, and that is why i think it is important that we have a labelling system which clearly and clearly informs consumers about the expected life of a product. that way, it's easier to buy something more durable. secondly, consumers must also have the right to have easier access to repair of their products. a large majority of eu citizens would rather have their products repaired than replaced. it is therefore a good thing that we are also proposing or actually demanding a 'right to repair', that is to say a right to have your product repaired. this should make it both attractive and cost-effective to opt for repair. and thirdly, we must stop certain companies from choosing to use planned obsolescence in their products. i think products should be able to last as long as they can, instead of someone wanting them to stop doing that to you before they're actually finished. we must change this, and that is why we must ban planned obsolescence. we have a lot of initiatives in this report. i also know that rome wasn't built in a day. we will not solve the climate problems in one day, but with this report we are making a number of good suggestions on how we can do that, how we can get started on securing a green and sustainable internal market.
mr president, we all want to be more sustainable but this goal should not come at a cost to the european smes and the access of consumers to low-cost options and a wide choice of products. as for labelling, consumers are already overwhelmed by the information. adding just another list of strange symbols or other marks to packaging that means nothing to the average consumer will not help. instead we should focus on controlling the voluntary labels and the green-washing which often misleads consumers to think something is more sustainable than it is. the problem is not too little information, but misinformation. if we must work on better sustainable labelling, let’s work on making the existing eco-design directive better, not just adding another number from 1 to 10 to every label without any context. and let us remember that reparability doesn’t mean a better product. a product might be easy to repair, but if it breaks every week, how is that better than a non-repairable one that lasts forever? a poor quality product can be repairable. it might get a score of 10 for reparability but a d on energy consumption. this is misleading for consumers. mr president, there must be a cost-benefit analysis and impact assessment for any proposed measures. if the costs are higher, while the environmental benefits are low, we should seek other solutions. instead this report seeks to throw everything at the wall and see what sticks. it is a pathway to over—regulation. this is the path to further weighing down our companies with red tape, and a pathway to higher prices for our consumers. in the middle of a crisis, where millions are out of work, instead of lifting burdens we as a union want to create more. i cannot understand this approach. let’s be more sustainable, but let’s not destroy the single market in the attempt to be so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had a printer that was only two and a half years old and it didn't hold the paper in. i looked around and saw a small plastic wheel had broken. i tried to get it fixed, but i couldn't because the case was welded tight, and even if it had opened, i couldn't have fixed it because there would have been no spare part. we hear these stories from thousands of citizens, over and over again. we therefore say quite clearly: this cannot go on. sustainability is a different story. sustainability is that you actually have a right to repair, that you're not forced to throw away something that's otherwise of good quality and buy something new. we want to protect the resources of this world, we want to make sure that less waste is generated. and also - and this is very sad - we have to stop so many of the products that are bought, returned or not sold being simply destroyed on the big platforms. why are they being destroyed? because it's cheaper to destroy them than to send them back to the manufacturer. it can't be. we must ensure that information and good quality are put back on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what can i say? what italian consumers, european consumers need right now, was already needed before the pandemic, before this emergency, is even more so today. you need to be able to buy your own needs, your own necessities, and be able to buy them at mile zero, be able to buy them at measured quality, that is, be able to see what you're buying. unfortunately, however, european policies and the policies envisaged by this measure, which europe intends to pursue, are directed towards the interests of the globalised world and not towards the real interests and needs of the consumer, who would like to buy at the right price but products from our territory. today, however, this pandemic is also, alas, causing great difficulties for our producers and consumers, and those who benefit are those who, on the one hand, are complicit in this pandemic - we think of the chinese, of chinese products which are currently stealing other market shares - and, on the other hand, the big giants who do not pay taxes either in europe or in italy. so outside these palaces, even outside the palace in milan, people ask you: why is europe not reacting? why does europe not find a way of making these giants pay the taxes they really do, who are exploiting the european and italian markets to the detriment of our producers? why does europe not protect us in selling products of similar quality in europe and in italy? think of the rice from cambodia, the oranges from morocco, the oil from tunisia, the products that come to our tables. why has europe, which was supposed to be the instrument for winning against the other continents, today brought us into worse situations than when italy was alone? the european continent had to win the challenge against america, it had to win the challenge against china, it had to win the challenge against russia and the other giants. today, however, europe has brought the member states and italy, producers and consumers, to their knees in the face of this continuous invasion of low-quality products at very high cost to our taxpayers. today, in order to be able to consume and to be able to give the possibility of consuming, we must offer jobs in italy and in europe. we need to increase our production, and to do that we need a tool: reduction of taxation pressure. europe cannot act to increase the tax burden but must act to reduce it. i have already said this a few weeks ago and i will say it again: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that's two billion euros. if those 2 billion euros could stay in the pockets of italian citizens to buy italian products, to buy european products, we would create inducted today. the taxation of chinese products, for example, which are unfairly competing in our territory is another extremely important instrument. i invite the commission and i invite parliament to consider these proposals.
mr president, in order to combat the climate crisis and meet the ambitious targets for the green transition and the european green deal, both production and consumption patterns need to be fully sustainable. the value of sustainability must be enhanced at every step in the supply chain to ensure durable products and services - durable not only in the final product, but at all stages of manufacturing, including the extraction of raw materials. consumer attitudes and choices play a crucial role. a sustainable common market must be affordable. the repair of products should be based on a realistic price, and therefore a financially sensible alternative. we must give consumers the necessary tools and guidance when making their choices, inter alia: 1. to by abolishing practices whose sole purpose is to shorten the life of products by means of manufacturing methods which are intended only to be discarded after a short period of time. 2. to regular software updates of digital products to enable them to continue to be used in a world where advances in this field are very fast. 3. to information on packaging on durability and repair which shall also include access and prices of spare parts. in order to make the best choices, consumers should have full information. 4. to common standards are also needed, and here i am referring to a common european charger. a decade ago, a european charger for mobile phones and small electronic products was discussed. if we want change we cannot continue to allow consumers to be misled.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic that should have united us and made us more sensitive has instead exacerbated the internal divisions in our society. violence based on hatred of others is commonplace, and discrimination against those who are still considered different is more entrenched than ever. equality and the universal recognition of fundamental rights are still a long way off even here in the european union. the lgbt community in particular, women and adolescents see their rights trampled on every day, victims of blackmail and exploitation. we live in a world where people are still sold as slaves, where prostitution is not exploitation if it brings profit to the country, where hate is running rampant on the internet and often called freedom of expression. we have become so used to looking the other way that we no longer see the right way forward, and millions of european citizens are paying the price for this. we need a decisive change of course, and the strategy for lgbt equality could be the beginning of a wider transformation, based on the pillars of anti-discrimination, security and equality, with the aim of creating an inclusive society. i ask the commission and this house to be courageous at this juncture, because it is a moral and civilized duty to fight against violence and discrimination.
madam president, six out of ten lgbtiq people avoid holding hands on the street, two out of five have experienced harassment over the past year, one out of five has experienced harassment at work and one out of three has experienced discrimination when socializing. many lgbtiq people have to live in the dark because they are suffering, in today's europe, discrimination. with covid, with the covid pandemic, they've become even more vulnerable. the commission's first strategy for lgbtiq equality is therefore very welcome. it is very welcome because it is a shared responsibility to protect human rights. we are talking about human rights, the right to liberty, the right to physical integrity, fundamental rights. it's important to ensure the safety of this group. it's important that there is no discrimination, that we are an example of inclusivity, that we respect diversity and that we are pioneers in leading equality around the world. but, for that we have to preach by example. the commission, parliament, civil society, each of us with our actions. because if we accept discrimination, we are accepting the strengthening of intolerance to diversity. we'll be accepting an attack on human dignity. we will be accepting the normalization of inequality and we will be accepting the cancer of democracy. so i welcome this strategy and let us all fight together for a europe of equality, where everyone can love whoever he wants and not be discriminated against for it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. all people must be able to love and live as they wish, and it is the task of politics to create the conditions for a happy life. the european union's lgbtiq equality strategy is therefore an important step in the right direction, and especially at this time - at a time when we need it most urgently. governments all over europe are trying to destroy our diverse society. it is clear that where democracy and fundamental rights are threatened, lgbtiq people are among the first to be affected. in poland, the inhuman lgbtiq-free zones. in hungary: the discrimination against homosexuality and transgenderism is to be elevated to constitutional status. and you could continue there. in the european union, 53% of lgbtiq people are affected by hostility. what are these horrible numbers? violence against the lgbtiq community is rising particularly fast where policies are still fueling hatred and discrimination. this cannot happen in our europe! no one should live in secrecy and fear violence because of sexual orientation and gender identity. europe must guarantee the protection of human rights and the right of citizens to live their lives as they wish. we all deserve a life free of discrimination, a life free of violence, in our european union.
madam president, my family, with two mothers, we are a family every day, from the morning when i wake my kids up – my daughter prefers music, so that’s what i try to use – until we put them to bed at night and kiss them goodnight. but, legally speaking, our family ceases to be a family if we move to certain countries in this union. so how do you explain that to a child? well, i’ll tell you, you don’t, because it is unacceptable. so what do you do? you wake up and you fight for your family and for all other rainbow families, as well as for same-gender partners. and that’s why i welcome the fact that the commission is finally taking action to ensure that i will not have to explain this to my kids. i also welcome other parts of the strategy: the fight against hate crimes, hate speech, the way we’re going to support education that’s inclusive. finally, this strategy, as has been said here, comes at a very important moment where we see lgbti people in poland, hungary and elsewhere being harassed and persecuted. we cannot have it anymore. it has to stop! (applause)
madam president, "the pursuit of happiness" is a book that i have read many times. let me quote these words from jefferson because i believe that the least that governments can do, in any state across the european union and elsewhere, is to allow their citizens women, men, and even those who don't put their gender in any particular box to live life to its fullest for their full satisfaction. wherever i live in the european union, as a gay man and my family, i should have the same rights, the same freedoms and the same protection as every other citizen and every other family in the european union. in this my first speech in this parliament, allow me to address my lgbtiq brothers in poland and hungary and in every other country around the world that denies fundamental rights to its citizens. we here in the european parliament know what you are going through, we are with you and we will not leave you alone. we will not stop working until we see that you too have your fundamental rights protected and can live life to the fullest. i would like to congratulate commissioner dalli and her team for the strategy they have put forward here today. we, the people of malta, are so proud of this strategy that we have succeeded in setting an example for the rest of the countries of the european union, of where we can go, "from zero to hero". as we have done in our own country, we can also have a european union that goes from zero to hero and where every child, every child, who is born in the european union, whatever their identity, knows that in our european union they can achieve their full happiness.
i congratulate you on your first speech!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a member of the lgbtiq intergroup, i very much welcome the strategy. the equality of all people, regardless of their gender identity, appearance or sexual orientation, should be a matter of course in a united europe. it is shocking that almost half of all lgbtiq people report direct discrimination experiences and there are even so-called lgbtiq-free zones. this is unacceptable in europe. the commission's strategy is therefore very timely, but it is not enough. one is strategy, the other is decisive action and implementation. i think that now all member states are also called upon, supported by the commission, to build an lgbtiq-friendly society. we need to act urgently and legislate, because lgbtiq rights are human rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, again if i were to sum up your comments here in a few words, what we are saying here is that lgbti persons’ rights are human rights and there is no place for second-class citizens in the european union. and yes, i look forward to living in a europe which is humanity-welcoming, without humanity-free zones. i want to refer to a particular question which was put with regard to migrants and refugees, and yes, the lgbtiq equality strategy contains a whole section on the upholding of rights of lgbtiq applicants for international protection, and here we have specific actions in that regard, namely that we will ensure appropriate protection of vulnerable applicants in the context of the common european asylum system and its reforms, and also that we will ensure support for lgbtiq equality in action under the asylum and migration pact. honourable members, dear friends, i really thank you for your contributions and for your support, for your commitment to lgbtiq equality. combating discrimination in the eu is a shared responsibility and deserves a collective european effort. we will continue with our cooperation towards this goal. i thank you heartily for your support now and your support before the strategy, during the writing of the strategy and, of course, most importantly, now in the implementation phases of the strategy. thank you for making this possible. (applause)
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. – it was high time the european commission issued it is first-ever eu strategy for lbtigq equality. in an era of governments establishing ‘lgbti free zones’, here, within our union, a strategy for mainstreaming the rights of this community is of utmost importance. the european union is a place of openness and respect, respect for all people, no matter their origin, religion or sexual orientation. i am proud to see that the commission has committed to put forward initiatives to combat discrimination, ensure individual safety, and open a dialogue to ban entirely the abhorrent practice of ‘conversion therapy’. the eu must promote the rights of all families, including lgbtiq families. a system of mutual recognition of parenthood and same-gender partnerships between member states would ensure that everyone’s rights are respected across the eu. this would also truly mean upholding the right to freedom of movement. no matter our shortcomings, the eu remains one of the most progressive regions in the world. we must continue our fight by promoting lgbtiq rights and non-discrimination, both within our union and beyond.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the members who took the floor in this debate and for the support they have shown for our initiative, the european year of rail. this shows that the debate has started and it’s so important. i’m looking forward to what we are going to discuss next year. i can assure you that we have big plans. we presented some of them in our strategy for sustainable and smart mobility. we have a good action working programme for next year, which includes a lot of initiatives on rail. many topics were raised here. you are all right that we need infrastructure, more focus, ticketing and passengers’ rights. we need everything to work in a very integrated way if we want to achieve a result in our work towards making rail more attractive in europe. it is needed as an alternative way and for an alternative sustainable mode, but it’s also a business. it is a competitive sector in our economy and we have great people working in the sector. so we are looking at it with hope and with all our determination to help improve it. coming back to the proposal, i would very much like to ask you to have this important decision adopted and entered into force before the end of the year. on our side, we have already started the preparatory work. we have had many contacts with the rail sector and other stakeholders, who are very enthusiastic about the actions ahead of us. we need a legal base in place to boost our preparation for the european year of rail. last but not least, we will need you all to reach as many citizens as possible, and we will need your ideas and your enthusiasm next year to make rail a success in 2021.
in writing. the agreement between the european parliament and the european council has established 2021 as the european year of railways. in order to raise awareness of the benefits of rail transport, a budget of over eur 8 million has been allocated to events and actions to increase the use of rail transport. the epp's vision, shared by the rest of the group, focuses on the practical side of the programme, namely more efficient spending of funds and implementation of the rules in force. the european year of railways 2021 will also target the directing of funds from the recovery and resilience fund towards the ten-t railway corridors. we follow the implementation of the rail legislative package 4 on opening the market for services to european passengers, reducing costs and administrative burden for eu railway undertakings and providing the european railway agency with additional tasks aimed at reducing technical barriers. calls for greater cooperation between infrastructure managers, as well as the promotion of digital passenger information actions, such as the provision of real-time information on travel offers, fares and timetables, including from independent providers, are other measures that will increase the efficiency of the european year of rail 2021.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it’s a pleasure for me to be part of this debate. of course we agree with you that small and medium-sized companies are the motor of the european economy and the foundation of europe’s societal welfare. they make up the majority of companies in all 14 strategic industrial ecosystems and many of them are great innovators. smes are front-runners in terms of transition and innovation but depend on an environment in which they can thrive. however, they are less equipped in terms of financial and human resources than large companies, and thus face additional challenges in complying with rules and accessing information, markets and finance. we agree that smes have been hit particularly hard by the covid crisis. a recent study by a smeunited indicates that more than 90% of smes have reported a decrease in turnover as a result of covid and about two thirds have reported delayed investment decisions or downsized investments. this can have devastating effects on employment. as you know, the eu institutions have not been silent observers to the crisis. on the contrary, the commission took decisive steps immediately and addressed liquidity problems of smes, provided practical advice and information via support services such as the enterprise europe network and supported governments to exchange best practices via the sme envoy network. moving now from initial short-term relief to economic recovery, the sme strategy becomes the reference tool of support. a eurobarometer survey released on 23 september confirmed the relevance of the three pillars of the strategy: capacity-building and support for the twin transition; reducing red tape and improving market access to the single market and beyond; and last but not least, improving access to finance. adopted just before the pandemic hit the eu with full force, the sme strategy is flexible enough to adapt to the new reality. implementation of most actions has started and many have been adjusted. furthermore, the commission is pushing the effectiveness of the late payment directive to improve smes’ liquidity. activities will focus in the short to medium term on particularly affected ecosystems such as tourism. under the enterprise europe network the commission is helping smes respond to the crisis by creating partnerships among them. it is also providing information to smes and supporting innovation, including through the european innovation council. the enterprise europe network will be enhanced to provide advice on sustainability to smes and it will work closely with digital innovation hubs to provide a seamless service of advice to smes at local and regional level. our commitment to smes does not end with the sme strategy. small businesses are mainstreamed into most eu policies – for example the green deal, the industrial strategy, the single market action plan – and will specifically consider smes’ needs when updating the industrial strategy. they are also firmly anchored in our better regulation agenda. we systematically screen our legislative proposals for their impact on smes. such analysis is mandatory and carried out in a proportionate way for every new proposal. a similar systematic approach to reviewing the impact of amendments to legislative proposals on smes might be considered by the co-legislators. the eu’s crisis response and the sme strategy support european smes in a complementary way. this is why it is imperative that the recovery package and the sme strategy go hand in hand. smes must benefit from investment and reforms funded under the recovery and resilience facility, which is why the commission is working with member states to address their needs in their national recovery and resilience plans. the upcoming investeu programme will provide crucial recovery-support to all types of companies, including traditional smes. it will place a strong focus on key policy priorities such as the green deal objectives and digitalisation. the overarching idea of investeu is to simplify today’s diverse landscape of financial instruments and to streamline operations. we agree that smes would benefit from a single digital entry point for all enquiries on eu financing opportunities for them. the access-to-finance.eu website already offers such a service. we recognise the essential role of banks in financing the european economy, notably small and medium-size enterprises. we have seen how banks have been part of the solution during the covid crisis and we are building and reinforcing the various pillars of the banking union. at the same time, improving the possibilities for smes to tap into capital markets is also essential. the capital markets union initiative aims at widening smes’ access to alternative channels of funding such as equity. the commission is also setting up the sme initial public offerings fund that will in particular seek to support smes’ access to public markets for financing. we welcome the capital markets union recovery package as an important step to increase smes’ visibility towards investors. we share the call for more female entrepreneurship: investeu will help stimulate investment in female-led companies and funds to increase the talent pool and innovation. global markets are already an important source of growth for smes. small businesses represent 88% of all eu exporters, they account for one third of all eu exports supporting more than 30 million jobs. we will continue to focus on supporting smes in the recovery phase. the launch of the new access2markets portal is an important step forward to help them. in the medium term, the portal will work in synergy with other information portals and databases for businesses, notably the matchmaking portal of the enterprise europe network and the single digital gateway which will provide integrated information sources and support for european businesses. thank you for listening to me. i’m looking forward to listening to you.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture, i should like to focus on the situation facing our small and mediumsized farms at the moment, but also on their needs in general. so the priorities right now are clear, and they are to ensure stability and continuity in the agri-food chain, which has been hit so hard and so severely in some of its sectors by this pandemic. but the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises and farms go beyond the particular situation we are experiencing. and the european strategy will then be crucial to ensuring their productivity. in particular, european support should serve to improve their capacity to stay on the market, to open up to exports, but also to diversify their products and services, in the light of the new strategy 'from producer to consumer', which, i stress, must not become an additional excessive administrative burden for our farmers. i also believe that it is particularly important in the agricultural sector that the strategy focuses on promoting young people and women, who unfortunately are not very present in the small and mediumsized farming enterprises.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on culture and education. mr president, smes represent 99% of european companies and generate more than half of the union's gross domestic product. they provide 75 million jobs, but the pandemic is making it increasingly difficult for them to do so. saving european smes from bankruptcy requires bureaucratization, digitisation, entrepreneurial education, easier access to finance, both from european funds and private development finance. more attention needs to be paid to the cultural and creative industries: smes in the youth, media and sports sectors, but also local producers, neighbourhood shops and family businesses, which have suffered greatly during this period. i mention two projects included in the cult commission's rapporteur's opinion and supported by the romanian business community: the development of a single european sme advisory office and the establishment of an initiative to create over one million new european start-ups. the european sme strategy will define the future of the european economy and that is why it is important that the european economic recovery plan actually supports smes and in particular that we have this 2% allocation for the cultural and creative sector.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr paulo borchia, and the shadow rapporteurs for their very good cooperation. small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of our economy, and we have a broad consensus on this. i think we need to follow our words with action. for example, in the area of red tape reduction, we call on the commission to designate a binding red tape reduction target by 30 june 2021. we need a binding, improved sme test: all legislative proposals must be checked for the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. a key issue has already been raised: the sme envoy, the sme commissioner. honestly, we've been waiting here too long; we've been waiting for this contact for 13 months. the economy needs this contact person, and it cannot be a toothless tiger. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. we will spend €1.8 trillion in the coming years. we will only succeed if we set the right framework for smes. we will succeed with a successful medium-sized enterprise, not with bureaucracy, not with regulation. we must make it possible for entrepreneurs to do business, and our report contains some very good proposals. let us get to work and get this done quickly.
on behalf of the s&d group. this report on the european strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises is an important milestone in helping these businesses to cope with the economic crisis they are facing due to the pandemic. and to take them forward to the opportunities offered by the digital and environmental transition. smes, micro-enterprises, often family businesses, are an example of the positive values in our society. perseverance, risk-taking, a strong sense of collaboration are the hallmarks of the european project. however, the structural challenges faced by our enterprises in recent months are still with us and we need to solve them. these months of hard work on this strategy gave us the opportunity to listen closely to the business community, trade unions and the various actors in malta and in brussels. today more than ever i am aware of their anxieties as well as their desires. i would point out, for example, that access to finance for businesses has become an urgent need for liquidity during the period. i think of our smes working in the tourism and hospitality sector, which has practically hit the charts not only in our country but across the union. i also refer to the lack of information that many smes suffer when it comes to the opportunities of european funds. i therefore welcome the progressive measures contained in this strategy. these measures also represent an important political achievement for my political family. the focus on recovery from the pandemic, workers' rights and the focus on the skills needed to move forward in the digital and environmental heartlands. i am glad that there is a strong reference to also addressing the missing entrepreneurs including women. much remains to be done to overcome the gender gap in enterprises and the labour market. we always say that smes are the backbone of our economy but we often stop there without much action. today i hope that this report, which i consider ambitious, will start to change this trend and therefore i insist that it be implemented as effectively as possible.
in writing. – the agreement on the next mff 2021-2027 by the european parliament and the council is crucial to the immediate start of our economy’s recovery phase, while taking into account the long-term perspective of the environmental and the digital transition. the amounts earmarked to cohesion policy as well as the financial resources for research, innovation and digital priorities will ensure, on the one side, the enhancement of the economic competitiveness of europe in the global arena and, on the other side, the strengthening of the social dimension. the new mff and the initiatives under the recovery instrument next generation europe will be beneficial to workers and smes all over europe, not least in malta and gozo. many crucial sectors of our economy, including tourism and hospitality, need to heal from the wounds of the covid19 crisis and to look forward towards taking the full potential of upcoming opportunities.
