on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i am often asked what europe actually does for us, what europe means. these are sometimes big, life-size abstract issues, like ensuring our freedom and security, or creating a single market for 500 million people. but sometimes it's also in something as practical and simple as a single uniform charger, the so-called common charger. one common charger for all mobile phones, cameras and tablets means less cost, less waste and more convenience for consumers. we will no longer need a separate charger for each device, which we then throw away when we buy a new phone from another brand. this case has been going on for a decade now, so it's about time. although some manufacturers still claim that you cannot compare apples to pears, i don't think this has to be so complicated. so manufacturers have already made big strides, and we've gone from 30 different chargers to three different types of chargers in the last 10 years. that's nice, but we're not there yet. it seems that more than encouragement is needed. for example, the current legislation still assumes a voluntary basis for manufacturers, whereas now you see that this does not work sufficiently in the end. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. i would therefore ask the commission to come up with a plan for a single universal charger, one that is good for consumers, that reduces waste and that leaves room for innovation.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that achieving financial equality between women and men is imperative. being financially independent will make a person free, and too many women today are less free because of the gender pay gap, which stands at 16% in the eu and has barely changed over the last decade. at the current snail’s pace, we risk moving backwards and this will continue to harm women and it will cost the eu over eur 200 billion in the next decade according to parliament’s own research. if we are to be serious about our european values, the commission must make freedom and independence for women its priority – from equal pay to active participation in an inclusive labour market. we need to go from minding the gap to understanding the gap to closing the gap, so large listed companies and governments must be transparent on how they pay their employees and we must know what is causing the gap.
mr president, currently everywhere in europe, the housing crisis is becoming more visible. the number of tenants’ movements is rising and local governments are starting to take more radical action to safeguard affordable rents, but the doubling of homelessness during the last decade in the european union hasn’t gotten the same amount of attention. the increase in homelessness shows the dramatic human costs of failed policies of austerity, precariousness and financialisation. the most vulnerable people in society are the ones that are hit first and hardest, with increased rent, energy prices and scarcity of houses resulting in them losing their home. but tonight we are discussing solutions for homelessness, which i hope to see implemented quickly. first, let’s all agree that criminalising homelessness is definitely not a solution and this horrible practice has to stop. second, let’s make sure that combating homelessness is part of the child guarantee to break the poverty cycle. and third, let’s make sure that more eu funds become available for housing first programmes. providing a roof over people’s heads gives them space to stop surviving and, with assistance, to be able to start living.
madam president, i would like to welcome the croatian presidency to the european parliament and wish it all the very best in achieving its goals. one of the goals of the new commission is to find an agreement on the new pact on asylum, based on the principles of solidarity and the right to asylum. the adoption of this new legislation may take years but, fortunately, we already have a lot of rules in place, which, if they were implemented correctly, would already harmonise our system. i would like to know what the presidency will do to promote compliance with the current asylum acquis by all the member states. you know, one of the core violations taking place at the moment is push—backs, allegedly taking place at many borders of the eu member states. i investigated these practices as a rapporteur for the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and, in that regard, i also visited the croatian border with bosnia. i was really overwhelmed by the number of well—documented cases and complaints about the brutal violence taking place and also the structural denial of access to an asylum procedure. do you admit that this is taking place and what steps does the croatian government intend to take in order to achieve a complete ban of these practices and combat these practices in all other member states as well? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i have to ask you. welcome home, andrei. i'm going to the hospital. the fact that the youngest member state of the union is holding this presidency is an example of the fact that enlargement is the only way forward for the european union. the ambiguous messages about enlargement have to stop. they confuse our friends and allies, reduce our credibility and open the door for other powers with shady interests to take our place. the day europe closes the door to the balkans will be the beginning of the deconstruction of the european union. i like the plan presented for the conference on the future of europe. after the pain that brexit will cause us, it is true, we must point the finger at the enemies of europe, we must point the finger at the nationalists, the separatists and the separatists. nationalism is the enemy of peace. and yes, it is true - as you have said andrej - we must defend the rule of law with all our strength. we must respect the independence of judges and courts. we must heed and respect the decisions of judges and courts. and this parliament has to accept the decisions of judges and courts, and if it wants to be recognised as respecting the rule of law it has to heed the requests of judges and courts. i hope that under your presidency brexit will be the last time it happens; that brexit will be the last divorce of europe; that brexit will be the last victory of nationalism.
mr president, first of all, it is a great pleasure to be in this chamber to discuss the first croatian presidency of the council of the european union. i am particularly pleased that the programme of the croatian presidency includes islands, as they have, for example, shown that they can be leaders in europe's energy transition. i ask you how croatia as a country with over 1000 islands plans to strengthen this process? the renewal of the enlargement policy and the holding of the summit in zagreb, for which i am obliged to write recommendations on behalf of the european parliament, are also welcome priorities. the recent refusal to open negotiations with north macedonia and albania has brought this issue back into the focus of the european institutions. suggestion: i think it would be good to include the countries of the western balkans in the work of the conference on the future of europe. croatia, as the youngest member, has the most recent experience of membership negotiations. we know how complex this process is, especially in the case of blockades by member states. paris is hinting at some positive developments. i ask you, are there similar signals coming from other members who share france's views?
madam president, mr prime minister, welcome back to your home, the european parliament. i would like to congratulate the croatian presidency on its ambitious programme, particularly in the western balkans area. the new year started ambitiously for mrs von der leyen, who said in zagreb that there was a green light, or there should be a green light, for the republic of north macedonia and the republic of albania. but it is precisely because of this, because of this ambition, that i want to recall the lessons of the past year. and they are: first and foremost, we should not make promises that we cannot or cannot deliver. secondly, today's global realities are such that we can no longer afford to keep the western balkan countries in europe's backyard. they must be an integral part of the european union. there are many important initiatives in the coming weeks. the first is to prepare and present the new methodology for the accession of the countries of the region to the european union. we need to consult with them. otherwise, we condemn the process to failure from the very beginning. the second thing mr pizzula is talking about is a conference on the future of europe. any country that becomes a candidate for membership of the european union must have a role and a place in the conference on the future of europe.
madam president, mr prime minister, in the transport, telecommunications and energy chapter of your presidency's agenda you mentioned, among other things, the climate-neutral eu and the related implementation of the energy union. i would ask you to pay more attention to the application of the objectives already set, which are complicated both technically and economically. i'm afraid that as soon as we've given the industry the signal with the target values, it's on the agenda to raise them. i believe that at this point we should focus our efforts primarily on strengthening horizon europe. such a large topic cannot be solved without the adequate contribution of new scientific knowledge and without disproportionate economic costs. i hope that, thanks to the croatian presidency, we will be able to agree and increase funding for horizon europe. mr prime minister, i wish you every success in the croatian presidency.
madam president, prime minister, it’s a pleasure to welcome the croatian presidency of the european union, a state that gained its independence recently, but has shown it has been a reliable member of the european union. i thank prime minister plenković for endorsing dialogue between catalonia and spain. catalonia is today a european internal affair and will be present during the croatian presidency. therefore, a political solution must be found, through dialogue and negotiation. the eu must advance to find a common democratic mechanism for self—determination. repression cannot be an acceptable solution. now it’s time for european politicians to speak up and show to the world that it is the better way: that the right of self-determination is the best and the most democratic way to solve territorial conflicts, not only in europe, but all around the world. (the speaker declined to take two blue-card questions from luis garicano and dolors montserrat)
madam president, i would like to welcome back prime minister plenković to the european parliament. it’s great to see croatia leading the european union for six months. you are now a model for the whole western balkans region. under the leadership of prime minister plenković, croatia has reached economic stability. you aim to join the euro area in the foreseeable future and croatia fulfils all the conditions for joining the schengen area. croatia can be a model for the whole western balkans. we need two things. firstly, we need other western balkan countries to deliver on reforms, and secondly, we, the european union, need to respect our promises to the western balkans. we need to say loud and clear to western balkan countries, ‘you are part of europe, you belong to the european union, and we want to help you on your way to the european union’. any contribution that the croatian presidency can make in this direction will be of historic importance. prime minister plenković, you know the european parliament very well and you will have an opportunity to show this in the negotiations that we will have on the european budget, and the philosophy of the european parliament for the budget negotiation is the following: we want to finance properly old priorities and new priorities. old priorities have been priorities for decades because they are important, not because they are outdated, and we agree together that we need to do more on new priorities: border protection, combating climate change and protecting the environment. so please stand with parliament and tell your colleagues in the european council that fresh priorities require fresh funding. tell your colleagues in the european council to put their money where their statements are, and please assure them that we are doing a lot to make sure that the eu budget is well spent. thank you very much. good luck for your presidency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are tired. we are tired of the empty talk and the false promises of this europe: we have war on our doorstep in libya, and europe is asleep. there are and will be waves of illegal immigrants ready to land in italy in the coming months, and europe is ignoring this. we have islamic terrorists and foreign powers threatening our security, and europe is giving billions of euros to the islamic dictator erdogan's turkey. it sounds like a science fiction film, but it is all so damn true, with a lot of applause for merkel, macron and also for you, president von der leyen. what else needs to happen? what are you waiting for? why are you sitting around waiting for the boat called europa to sink? you must wake up or this europe will be the end of the titanic.
president. - the european union wants to phase out fossil fuels because it sees co2 as a problem. we can't do that with solar and wind power alone. nuclear energy is then needed in the energy mix. in a dutch newspaper of 9 january last, commissioner timmermans said that nuclear energy was too expensive and unsustainable. that's nonsense, because wind turbines and solar panels are the ones that will be producing a mountain of waste in 20 years that we have no solution for. france has a share of more than 70% in nuclear energy. the price of a kwh is almost half that of germany, which has already invested €200 billion in renewable energy. wind turbines and solar farms are destroying nature because of space requirements, they cannot be without fossil back-up and the integration into the electricity grid is very complex. our investments must be economically sound and energy must be affordable to keep up with the competition from the united states and china, otherwise we will lose jobs. i urge the croatian presidency to put nuclear energy on the agenda.
madam president, yes, recent events in iraq and iran show us how fragile the stability in the world is, and an escalation is never far away. moreover, we have to realise that the eu must combine its strengths to protect our global interest. we need to speak more with one voice, backed up with serious military capacities. it’s good that the eu wants to keep the nuclear deal alive, but we also have to warn iran: the iranian demonstrators are not to be harmed. as the eu we have to be firm to protect the universal rights of demonstration by iranian people. and i call upon the high representative to redouble her efforts in initiating a dialogue between the us and iran. that’s the only way forward out of this hazardous situation.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, once again i have to thank the european parliament for its continued monitoring of the human rights and democracy situation around the world and today i have to welcome your comprehensive annual report on human rights and democracy in the world, which provides many useful recommendations. thank you to the rapporteur, ms isabel wiseler—lima, for her work. i have to start by saying that human rights and democracy are and must remain at the heart of our work. it’s part of our dna. at the very first foreign affairs council meeting i chaired in december, we discussed with all eu foreign ministers our collective efforts to protect and promote human rights and democracy, taking into account the worrying trends, including shrinking space for civil society and increasing attacks on human rights defenders. the ministers agreed on the political appropriateness of establishing an eu global human rights sanction regime, and work on this is being taken forward in the council and we hope to move forward as quickly as possible. this global human rights sanction regime is one of the targets, one of the purposes, objectives that we, all together, have to try to achieve as soon as possible. on my second day in office, i engaged with grassroots environmental human rights defenders from around the world at the human rights forum, focusing on how to build a fair environment for the future. many of the issues that you address in your annual report on human rights and democracy, which was adopted in may last year, were already addressed in this report. and we delivered and streamlined a report using concrete country—specific examples. we are fully aware of the strong interlinkages between the two reports and for the next eu annual report, covering 2019, we are aiming for a timely adoption this spring. your report calls for a more effective eu human rights foreign policy. it’s a welcome contribution to the ongoing work on the new action plan on human rights and democracy. this will be a roadmap setting the eu level of ambition and priorities for the next five years and it will reflect the transition to a digital world and the changing geopolitical dynamics. human rights and democracy are and should continue to be at the centre of our relations with third countries. the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) is the largest financial instrument in the world dedicated specifically to human rights and democracy and payments for eur 135 million were made under this flagship in 2018. let me give some examples: the 2018 global call for proposal led to the selection of five projects on lgbti rights and there was eur 70 million to spend on that. they cover such difficult countries on this subject like russia, malawi, zimbabwe, guatemala, salvador, honduras, nicaragua, colombia and peru. this project supported capacity—building of specialised ngos and offered legal aid to victims of lgbti—related human rights violations and to human rights defenders. beyond development cooperation, your report correctly points out that trade and economic policies should be linked to political dialogue and that human rights violations should be fully taken into consideration in any action that the european union is undertaking. you are very well aware of our human rights guidelines, the regular dialogues and a strong public diplomacy. we have a special representative for human rights that has reached out to governments and civil society globally and his leadership has already raised considerably the profile of the european union human rights policy. in particular, the european union has contributed to moving forward on rights of the child and, together with a group of latin american and caribbean countries, we have been tabling three resolutions on the right of the child. two were presented during the march session of the human rights council. one concerned the 30th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child and the second focused on empowering children with disabilities so that they can enjoy their human rights, including the right to inclusive education. your report also correctly draws attention to the rising backlash against women’s rights worldwide. the eu remains strongly committed to the full enjoyment of human rights by all. our broad commitment to gender equality and women’s empowerment is demonstrated, in particular, by our spotlight initiative on ending violence against women and girls, signed in september 2017 in new york. this initiative is backed by a substantive eur 500 million investment over the period 2018—2024. two pillars were implemented: the latin american pillar against the gender—motivated killing of women and the sub—saharan pillar to prevent and eliminate sexual and gender—based violence and harmful practices. these need to remain at the forefront of our efforts, particularly in view of the 25th anniversary of the world conference on women and the beijing declaration. also, your report welcomes the council conclusions on democracy of last october and highlights the significance of transparent, inclusive and credible elections. this requires me to thank the member states – and also the members of this parliament – who have joined our election observation missions. this election observation mission structure is a good example of how our institutions are working efficiently together. i don’t want to read the whole list of those missions, but i just want to point out some of them: salvador, kosovo, malawi, mozambique, nigeria, senegal, sri lanka and tunisia. i am sorry that we were not in the last elections in bolivia. we are going to mend that and will continue to do such important work in order to defend the basis of the human rights, which is an efficient democracy. let me say that this exchange of views was very useful. in the end, i will say i am sure that when i heard you, ms rapporteur, i found in your works the same aim that motivates the service i have responsibility for in order to work together on this issue. thank you very much for your work. i am sure that now i can have more information about what you ask the external action service to do to defend human rights all over the world because you, european parliamentarians, and us, people working on our missions all over the world, are trying to fight for the same purpose.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. as has already been mentioned, the vote and approval are delayed: more than a year and a half late. the joint work we have done has allowed us to focus on many subjects, and the speakers from the socialist group will point out the new features of the report. i would like to draw attention to one particular theme: the fact that we have placed a great deal of emphasis on how we make european policy more effective in defending and safeguarding human rights in the world. and here the issue of impunity is a crucial, decisive issue, which we have tried to put at the center, to address a more fundamental issue: the european union is facing the challenge of safeguarding human rights and defending human rights, how to combat impunity also through new tools, new powers, capable of reducing the spread of impunity. this is our commitment and our responsibility, and it will be the task of the next reports to go further into the matter, to make this a crucial issue of our identity, without if and without but, to really win the challenge in the world on human rights, also making strong choices - i imagine at the next g20 in riyadh - to condition our participation in that meeting to raise the issue of human rights even in a large country like saudi arabia.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the annual discussion we have on the human rights report carries the risk of routine in our debates when they concern respect for human rights in the world. there is a risk of making the same observations, of using formulae which are similar from one year to the next and of renewing the same hopes. today is different. that worry is quickly swept away. we have before us a well-thought-out, well-structured report, as accurate as possible. the report presented by mrs wiseler-lima is an essential reference for the discussion of human rights in the weeks, months and perhaps years to come. it covers virtually every subject without going into too much detail. it also addresses the major trends affecting respect for human rights in the world, and among these major trends, it of course regrets the decline in multilateralism. to say that multilateralism is being pushed back is to betray a proven method and to abandon an established record of respect for human rights. it is clear that some countries in the european union, the council of europe and the atlantic alliance have been led into this drift. it is particularly regrettable to find among them members of the european union itself. finally, as i have little time, i would like to ask the commission what action it intends to take on our proposals. last year i presented a report on the prohibition of forced and child marriages and we as the european parliament voted by a majority to make the prohibition of child and forced marriages a conditionality in our approach to external relations. i hope that the last word on this matter has not yet been said.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. for two-thirds of your speech, our monitors were reporting that you were speaking in a debate on iran and iraq. i'm glad that the information is up to date, even though i've already been getting signals on my cell phone about this. this is a rather strange situation. i will put it this way: i am very pleased that we in the european parliament feel that we are the institution that shows what democratic standards are all over the world. we want to maintain those standards. that's good! i've been an election observer in over 20 different countries, and i know that these missions we're doing make sense. but the truth is, we have to take care of some democratic standards ourselves. i don't understand the situation. i just got word that i only have eight seconds. madam chairman, i have pointed out an error that has occurred. i don't want this to be seen as a revenge on your part, madam president, so i'll stop. i cannot understand why the european parliament refused to debate yesterday what was happening in paris.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, 2018 was a year marked by the rise of intolerance, hatred and discrimination. it was the year of the rise of political violence against women human rights and environmental defenders, who, like marielle franco, were murdered. we still demand justice today. but it was also the year that women, in the face of the advance of the far right, took to the streets en masse to remind us that the revolution will be feminist or it will not be. and yet again this report on human rights refuses to look at europe, where human rights are also being violated. and if not, look at our borders, at refugee camps like moria, at the 'european guantanamo' detention centres, or at the rampant inequality that is rampant in our streets. let us stop hypocritically demanding that other countries guarantee human rights while we, or our multinationals, continue to violate them. we have to change this policy. we must stop violating human rights. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be voting on the 2018 annual report on human rights and democracy. it is extremely important that in this first report of the legislature, once again and even more assertively, the importance of those fundamental values on which the very existence of the union is based be confirmed: the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt. only by remembering who we are can we ensure that our actions are consistent with these principles and do not lose our way. i would like to thank the rapporteur, isabel wiseler-lima, for the outstanding work she has done in bringing together the different views within the various committees involved. this strategic document reflects the deep shared concern about the deterioration of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. 2019 was a year in which increasingly alarming authoritarian tendencies emerged and an increasingly decreased use of multilateral international forums for the resolution of disputes between states. it is now more urgent than ever that the union should set an example for the international community. i therefore consider it a priority to focus in this parliament on putting the advancement of human rights at the heart of any action by the european union, dear high representative, and to demand that all our allies fully respect the shared rules.
i am waiting for a moment, mr president, because i see that mr borrell is very busy with his telephone and it might be a good idea for him to put on his headphones. the report we are now debating unfortunately calls for attention to be paid to freedom of religion and belief in the world. after all, for billions on this earth, their faith is of the utmost importance. they want to be able to confess and speak freely. sadly, many are oppressed, systematically bullied, or even killed for their faith, not only by other people but also by governments. i think that the repression and the murder of people in countries like iran, india, nepal, nigeria, saudi arabia and somalia, and i hope that mr borrell will put that on his phone by now. european policy is ambiguous. on the one hand, the high representative condemns almost every week all such attacks, and rightly so. on the other hand, the european union continues to trade with countries like this without any concrete action. beautiful words without concrete actions sound like hollow barrels. please take action against such countries.
madam president, i want to highlight the strong call by this parliament for a legislation on human rights due diligence for european enterprises, because of course enterprises must take their share of addressing global challenges. it’s wonderful to see that more and more responsible companies call for mandatory due diligence legislation, especially at the european level, because they want a level playing field and they don’t want to be competed out from the market by irresponsible companies. so we have to make sure that we encourage responsibility and not irresponsibility. it is very important to guarantee access to remedy for victims of cooperate misconduct, and may i just remind you that this is the so-called third pillar of the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. and the eu has done very, very little, if anything, on this one. so 2020 must be the year of action, and when the eu acts the impact reaches far beyond the eu’s borders.
mr president, this report shows that human rights are still being trampled on in many countries. the european union must therefore continue to place human rights at the forefront of its foreign policy. i am thinking of the protection of the rights of the child and of persons with disabilities. i am thinking of stopping the persecution and violence against people for whatever reason: whether it's because of religion, because of ethnicity, because of sexual orientation. meanwhile, christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world. hence the question: what is the position of the eu special envoy for religious freedom in this regard? it needs to be reset and amplified. i would therefore like to know, and this is a specific question to the high representative, what the status of the mandate of this eu envoy for religious freedom is.
blue-card question. – i’m just enjoying the way this debate is going at the moment, really. i’m enjoying the blue cards because for the first time, i feel like we’re having an actual debate here (applause) and i think that’s very, very necessary when we’re talking about the future of europe. i just thought i would take the opportunity to give some of my time back to my colleague from the s&d who, very importantly, talked about the involvement of citizens and of ngos in the future of europe, and the conference on that. that’s a really important topic, so i thought that by doing this, i can give him a little bit more time to talk about that.
mr president, last weekend judges from over 20 european countries gathered in warsaw to support their polish colleagues in their fight to protect the independence of the judiciary, and they were supported by many polish citizens who demand european action. we applaud the commission’s call to the court of justice to impose an interim measure on the polish government to stop the disciplinary chamber. yet as we know, this procedure covers only one of the many threats to the polish rule of law. while judges from all over europe speak out against these dangerous reforms and violations, our government leaders remain silent. there are no recommendations to the polish government, no regular hearings and no legal steps taken, such as interstate complaints. these are all measures that the council can take without unanimity. my question to the council, and through the council to the other member states, is a simple one. how far does the polish government need to go before you will start actively defending our european values? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – i can’t reply to this question, because it’s completely arbitrary. what we are discussing here is the threat to the rule of law in poland. a real democracy recognises the separation of powers and the checks and balances that we need in order to respect not only the majority, but also the minorities, and the rights of everyone in a country. now this is under threat, and i would really hope that the polish people – and especially polish politicians – really look into the facts and look at the rule of law and the rules of the european union to see where they are falling short.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in november, over 200 000 people took to the streets in a demonstration against prime minister babiš in prague, and afterwards mr babiš insisted that that demonstration – as well as the investigation by the european commission – are all part of an undemocratic plot against him. i disagree with that ridiculous conspiracy theory. the commission is doing its democratic and its legal duty, and more particularly, its duty towards the czech citizens that are demanding justice. the leaked commission audit of december is dry and factual, and it establishes that mr babiš is in a clear conflict of interests, as he’s using taxpayer money to enrich himself. the millions in question have to be paid back, and we need that new rule of law mechanism that’s been proposed to ensure the independence of the national bodies that the eu has to rely on. let’s stand up for czech citizens today, and let’s make the eu budget autocrat—proof.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 could be a year of great change for burundi: finally, on may 20, presidential and political elections are due to be held, after a terrible season that began with the disputed april 2015 elections. in the meantime, however, burundi continues to suffer from serious human rights violations. president nkurunziza has committed heinous crimes to maintain power against the will of the people, including a bloody crackdown on demonstrations, which has seen massacres and extrajudicial executions of opponents and members of civil society. since 1 may 2019, in particular, a long season of political assassinations and threats by the regime against independent pollsters and political opponents has begun. the space for civil society and media has become increasingly narrow, and many activists and independent journalists face intimidation, arbitrary detention and summary trials. i would like to express my deep concern at these developments, which presage the violent and undemocratic nature of the forthcoming elections. how can fair and fair electoral competition for opposition parties be guaranteed in the face of increased repression of independent media? burundi needs a lasting political solution but its current government refuses to respect international treaties, the arusha agreement of 2000 and the burundian constitution itself, undermining any initiative for reconciliation, peace and justice. that is why we need to make the voice of the european union heard more than ever, demanding respect for international treaties and the human rights clause of the cotonou agreements. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for this important question. first of all let me say that it is true: it is not the only country, but that’s why it is even more important than ever that we will respect of the human rights clause in the cotonou agreement. it has never been effectively applied, and above all we must look into not only suspending our cooperation funds, but also eventually implementing targeted sanctions against those responsible for these atrocities. we are speaking in burundi of a covert genocide because still there is a conflict between the hutu and tutsi in the country as happened in rwanda. and of course let me say that we must try to use our leverage and to ensure a united position of the european countries. we cannot allow some of our member states to negotiate behind our back, not respecting the official position of the high representative and, of course, the official position of the eu.
madam president, i have listened very carefully to the whole debate and i agree with all my colleagues. the situation in burundi is indeed very critical and i thank the editors of this newspaper for presenting such a report. especially in the situation that was mentioned here. burundi is due to hold two elections in six months - a parliamentary and a presidential one. and we, the european union, and it is up to the commission, to you, commissioner, to do our utmost to ensure that these elections are held democratically, by appropriate diplomatic means, but also by economic means. that should be the focus of today's debate. we can say how tragic it is, how journalists are being treated, how the opposition is being treated in burundi, but the purpose of this meeting should be what we do to make sure that there are at least a little bit of democratic elections in may. and the situation will not be easy, although here a colleague said that the current president does not want to run, so some analysts say that on the contrary he will run, which would be contrary to the burundian constitution. so we have a very difficult journey ahead of us to help burundi and to hold democratic elections in may.
madam president, last november i had the honour of participating in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in rwanda to discuss the future of the european union's relationship with african countries, especially after the cotonou agreement. the same joint parliamentary assembly, the european commission and the european parliament as a whole have now determined that burundi - a country bordering rwanda, which also suffered the horrendous genocide in the mid-1990s - is in flagrant violation of article 96 of the cotonou agreement, because of the repressive situation which continues. burundi is one of the poorest countries on earth. 50% of its budget depends on external aid and, even under these conditions, the european union maintains financial aid which increases from eur 91 million to eur 120 million, mainly humanitarian. we therefore have the authority and the duty to demand that the upcoming elections in burundi - presidential, parliamentary and local elections - take place in an atmosphere where systematic repression of journalists and human rights defenders, imprisonment, arbitrary detention, enforced disappearances and systematic torture are not tolerated. we have all the moral authority and we support the commission in exercising it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i share your concern about the situation in burundi. i recall that, last december, the council confirmed the need to maintain appropriate measures, according to article 96 of the cotonou agreement, against burundi. the eu believes that the burundi crisis should remain high on the international agenda and we will continue to work with our partners in the united nations, the african union and african regional organisations. there are signs that tensions could increase further in the run-up to elections that are now foreseen for 20 may. violations and abuses of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of association, persist across the country. the case of four journalists from iwacu who have been imprisoned was mentioned by many here and i would like to assure you that the eu is keeping this issue very high on its agenda with the burundi authorities. we have been raising this and coordinating with our like-minded partners. we will not let this issue just go away. the commission of inquiry on burundi, in its latest report in september, denounced the persistence of a climate of fear and intimidation of all persons who do not support the ruling party. the commission also raised red flags at the serious human rights violations that were committed, some of them constituting international crimes. i do not, however, believe that we should just accept as inevitable that things can only get worse from now on. that is not in anybody’s interests and most certainly not in the interests of burundi and its people. i wish to assure you that the european union has no intention of abandoning burundi. through its development cooperation, the european union remains strongly engaged in the country, also working with civil society and human rights defenders and building up the resilience of the population. in the next four months, the time leading up to the elections, it will be crucial that burundi strives to ensure a credible, transparent and inclusive electoral process, open up political and civic space and bring an end to human rights violations and impunity. respect for the spirit and the letter of the arusha agreement is key. i encourage burundi to take this path, noting that there are elements to build on, such as a code of conduct broadly supported by political parties and the president’s reconfirmed announcements not to run for a fourth mandate. if burundi chooses this path, it can count on the readiness of the european union to accompany it.
author. madam president, the terrible damage caused to nigeria by ten years of armed conflict with islamic radicalism and the presence of boko haram in the country is enormous: about 36,000 killed since 2009, almost 2 million displaced, more than 7 million people in humanitarian emergency. added to these impacts, which can be measured, are instances of physical and sexual violence against women and girls, lack of access to education and healthcare caused by conflict, and the whole spiral of poverty and insecurity that results from it. the recent terrorist attacks reinforce the urgency of the implementation of the counter-terrorism strategy by the state, stabilising the territory, protecting its nationals, muslims and christians, from islamic radicalism and preventing the police authorities from continuing to be accomplices and perpetrators of crimes against humanity. empowering civil society and ngos working on the ground to respond to malnutrition and provide basic health care, especially for pregnant women and children, is urgently needed. climate change is aggravating the situation faced by the people, and it is essential to work in the medium term to create conditions for access to the country's available natural resources, which will be an essential part of building peace and economic and social stability in the region. migration movements in nigeria and neighbouring countries create additional problems and therefore require targeted and coordinated action by the international community as well as enhanced cooperation on counter-terrorism measures. the fight against all forms of religious radicalism and terrorist groups operating in nigeria must be a national priority, but also our priority. nigeria's internal security is also our security. in the global village in which we live, what happens on the african continent has a direct influence on the whole world, and on the european union in particular. we must therefore all join forces to combat this scourge.
author. madam president, nigeria is the largest oil producer in africa and is yet another example of a country rich in resources, but where more than half of its population lives in poverty. furthermore, the violence in the country is extreme. there are over two million forcibly displaced people. women and girls are raped and sexually exploited and thousands of minors are recruited by boko haram or imprisoned by the state. a state which has been criminalizing humanitarian aid and the work of ngos for months, using the alibi of the so-called anti-terrorist struggle. nowhere can anti-terrorism laws be an excuse to override rights and freedoms. it is necessary to remind this parliament of the respect for international humanitarian law and the principles of neutrality of official development aid from european funds. we need to hold our corporations accountable for human rights violations and environmental destruction. now that we are talking so much in this parliament about the european green deal, we cannot hide the fact that the niger delta is one of the most polluted regions in the world, thanks to multinationals, also european. poverty, violence, economic plunder are pushing people to flee nigeria. thousands of people risk their lives on the migration routes and are victims of slavery and sexual exploitation. we approach migration phenomena solely from the consequences and with a security approach, building walls. we would do well to focus on the causes, responsibilities and the necessary coherence of the whole of european policies and the actions of european multinationals in nigeria and other countries of the global south in order to understand precisely these migratory flows. it is not enough to approve trust funds for africa. the important and urgent thing is to make a 180-degree turn in european economic and geostrategic policies on the african continent. ladies and gentlemen, no handouts or empty words. let us be consistent with our policies and consistent with our actions. let's change course. let's have another policy for africa.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the situation in nigeria. last wednesday night, four missionaries were kidnapped by nigerian gunmen from their seminary. add this kidnapping to the murders, massacres, violence, oppression, looting, forced evictions and other crimes against humanity, and we get a terrifying picture of what is actually happening in nigeria today. more than 6,000 christians, muslims and other nigerians have been murdered in the past five years, 3,600 girls and boys in military prison camps with appalling living conditions, 2 million people on the run. these are just a few of the things that are happening in nigeria today. the state has no control over militant, mostly radical islamist armed groups. boko haram is one of them, one of the biggest ones, that in nigeria is committing such outrages that it's called targeted genocide, and we can only compare these outrages to the nazi or the communist regime. nigeria is now experiencing exactly what was happening in iraq or afghanistan. the nigerian government must be constantly reminded of this genocide and asked to try to find a solution to this situation, because it is not enough to accept it, but something must be done about it.
author. – madam president, nigeria has been very close to being a failed state now for decades, largely due to petty squabbles between the two main political parties. this has led to a complete failure to address the real problems the country faces. for instance, despite some advances by the military, boko haram remains a threat to security in the northeast region. we have abductions, suicide bombings, attacks on civilian targets by boko haram, people are still getting killed, and of course boko haram also target their attacks across the border in chad and in the cameroon. decades of old communal conflict between nomadic herdsmen and settled farmers in the middle belt have recently intensified and further exacerbated the security situation in the country. women and children are the most vulnerable in this conflict. children often are recruited by the terrorist groups and used as child soldiers or suicide bombers. farmers are getting killed and others are getting displaced as a result of all this violence. civil society is left to lead the campaigns against arbitrary arrests, detention and torture, but it should be the nigerian authorities themselves which guarantee the respect for human rights in the country and lead this fight. president buhari was re-elected in 2019 on the promise of defeating violent extremism undertaken by terror groups such as boko haram. it’s high time to concentrate all of the government’s efforts to keep that promise, developing and implementing a comprehensive strategy. a strategy has been developed, but it’s not been implemented. the external action service of the eu and the member states need to help through technical assistance. in this way we should strongly support nigeria’s efforts in their fight against terrorism.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, nigeria is home to west africa’s largest christian community with over 80 million christians. this is about half of the country’s population. historic rivalry between the muslim north and christian south of nigeria intensified with the spread of radical islam. for more than 10 years, violent extremist and jihadist groups, such as boko haram and islamic state in west africa province, terrorised the country. they attacked nigerian police, military, schools, public institutions and religious buildings. according to a humanitarian organisation, more than 6 000 christians have been murdered since 2015 by jihadist groups. the latest reports date from last week, 8 january, when fulani muslim herdsmen attacked the predominantly christian village of kulben in central nigeria and killed 13 civilians. also at the end of december, we witnessed several attacks on christian villages causing the death of over 30 people. responsibility for these actions has been claimed by islamic state in west africa province as retaliation for the death of islamic state leader abu bakir al-baghdadi in syria. although the nigerian president, a muslim, condemned the atrocities, the announced governmental measures to prevent further violence lack efficiency. nigerian security forces often seem to neglect the persecution of christians. we discuss case after case of violent actions against religious minorities. it is time that the international community recognised the persecution of christians around the world. africa is a deeply religious continent and it happens too often that misconceptions about other religions are used to instigate hate and terror. the european union should use its financial instruments to invest in development of the region, leading to the protection of religious minorities. the eu should also increase its focus on inter-religious dialogue in its diplomatic relations with third countries. a month ago, parliament awarded the sakharov prize to a muslim martyr, and with a symbol like this we should encourage countries like nigeria to recognise and recompense the damages done to a church in need that is left alone. we should not be ashamed to call the crime by its name.
madam president, nigeria is the most populous country in africa with over 200 million inhabitants, with a projected 500 million by 2050. it is also the largest economic power in africa, earning it the name of the giant of africa. nigeria is facing many tensions: boko haram is trying to occupy the north-east and is responsible for terrorist attacks which have killed thousands of people and displaced millions over the last decade; the problem is that there is a lot of tension between herders and farmers, which is not an ethnic conflict, not a religious conflict, but the result of climate change, which is driving herders to occupy the more fertile land, which is currently occupied by farmers. the conflict is also bloody because of the flow of arms from libya, which has repercussions for the sahel region and nigeria. the answer must therefore be global. firstly, support for the libyan solution and control of the arms embargo on the region. secondly, a guarantee that the exploitation of natural resources in nigeria (oil, gas, but also metals) will allow the populations to develop. i would like to mention the case of shell, which was attacked by the local population because shell was responsible for a lot of pollution and theft of oil resources. thirdly, urgent humanitarian aid is also needed for the ten million people who are victims of this instability. fourth, a control of global crime linked to trafficking: drugs, weapons, or prostitution, facilitated by global financial systems that allow tax evasion at the level of nigeria. finally, the european union must consider nigeria as a priority partner in its strategy for the african union, because nigeria's stability is essential for the region: for the sahel, chad, cameroon and niger, which are its neighbours (with 4,000 kilometres of borders), but also for the gulf of guinea, which is now the site of all trafficking, and also for the entire african continent. therefore, nigeria must remain a preferred partner.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, nigeria is the third country in the world most affected by terrorism, behind only iraq and afghanistan. as has already been said, ten years of boko haram violence, aggravated by conflict and ethnic violence between religions muslim, christian and, lately, also by the struggle for scarce resources between farmers and nomadic herders. in this context of emergency violence in nigeria, the situation is aggravated for the most vulnerable, women and children. women face widespread discrimination and violence, including genital mutilation and child marriage. but let me mention in particular the situation of children, who are living in a dramatic situation. they are recruited by terrorists to be used in suicide bombings, but also arrested by the military in nigeria, accused of collaborating with terrorism without hardly any evidence. according to international organizations, 3,600 children - half of them girls - have been detained and the army has consistently denied access to military detention centres. we therefore call on the nigerian authorities to place these children at the disposal of the civilian authorities. we recall that the response to counter-terrorism, as well as its judicial and police framework, must fundamentally protect human rights and the civilian population, and especially the most vulnerable. and in this connection we encourage the international community, and especially the commission and the member states, to continue to support the peace-building efforts in that country with all their technical and all-out efforts.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. nigeria is a country with a great history. after all, iron was already being smelted there over two thousand years ago, and the terracotta sculptures were being made in an elaborate way. cities in the north of the country, such as kano and katsina, have a history of over a thousand years. and what is boko haram, or the official name of jama'at ahlis sunna lidda'awati wal-jihad, doing in this country? what is nigeria's image in the world now, by persecuting, killing, murdering hundreds of christians? i think our voice should be particularly strong today. we cannot stand by and watch what these terrorists are doing to christians and others under the crescent moon. it's our moral duty. we can't keep quiet about this. we must speak out, across the divide, and demand that the nigerian government take a hard line against islamic terrorists.
president. - the european union must now draw a line. the misery inflicted on christians in particular in nigeria is unacceptable. that is what the high representative for foreign affairs must do now: to make clear to the government in abuja: this can't go on. so, not words, but deeds. it is high time to freeze trade and other relations with nigeria as the government continues to fail to protect christians and tackle boko haram. european companies must also be given a mirror. it can no longer be the way to make money in this country where corruption and abuse of power dominate. the time for fancy statements and hollow statements is over. christians in nigeria have been suffering for years. we all know about the 270 christian girls from chibok who were abducted by boko haram in 2014. 112 of them are still missing, and the girls who did return were often raped and traumatized. the crimes of boko haram have been going on for years. christian ministers have also been regularly kidnapped. nigerian bishop matthew hassan kukah last week sharply condemned the violence against christians in his country when he said: the only difference between the government and boko haram is that the latter has a bomb. harsh commentary from this bishop. indeed, in 2015, prime minister buhari said he would tackle terrorism. they were empty words. it is time for the european union to speak out against this injustice. bring everything out of the closet to get the government in nigeria to tackle boko haram, and help them do it. the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 171 (8))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, i agree with the honourable member. the systematic suppression and murder of christians in nigeria is underreported in the media. that is why these debates are important. and i would also like to say to my colleague: the intergroup on freedom of religion or belief and religious tolerance has now been re-established. we are starting with that intergroup and i have already heard that this issue will be important on the agenda of that intergroup: persecution of christians, including in nigeria. we really shouldn 't play hide and seek here . this is a crucial subject. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already taken action on this. i take note of your willingness to ask companies to behave respectfully towards the population. the only thing is that your group, the epp group, consistently votes against due diligence measures which affect european companies active in countries such as nigeria or countries in conflict. does this mean that your group will now vote in favour of the proposals on the due diligence of companies now operating in these countries?
"blue card" is the answer. the honourable member is quite right. if we talk about human rights and religious freedom, we also have to address the countries that violate human rights and religious freedom. that goes for nigeria, that goes for saudi arabia, that goes for india, you name it. and the missionary work which you and your group have to do in certain areas, my group and i will also do, to ensure that we finally put our words into action in the field of human rights and religious freedom. please do the same, and we'll work together.
madam president, boko haram has been terrorising nigeria for over a decade now. more than 36 000 people have been killed and the power of boko haram and other terrorist groups is only increasing. while the attacks by these groups are already a serious cause for concern, nigeria further faces ethnic, religious and communal violence. to make matters worse, these crimes are being carried out with impunity. fearing for their lives, thousands of nigerians are fleeing their homes and need aid. as the security risks involved have led to humanitarian organisations leaving, the nigerian government must step up to fulfil its duty towards its citizens to protect them, to guarantee their human rights and uphold the rule of law. in an already unstable situation, the government must also de—escalate religious and communal tensions immediately. terrorism, however, as we know, knows no borders. the eu and the international community must continue to do everything it can to support the fight against terrorism in nigeria and the region as a whole.
madam president, the islamist infiltration of west africa seems to have reached its most terrifying peak in nigeria: bombings, kidnappings and summary executions, particularly on christmas day. who could now deny that christianity remains the most persecuted religion in africa, as elsewhere? how could it be otherwise when the international community persists in remaining silent? in the sahel, france alone is fighting the fight against terrorism to the hilt over an area of eight million square kilometres, comparable to europe. worse, the west seems to take a delight in putting the screws to african states struggling with the islamist hydra. what, for example, of the loud cries of so many good souls against nigeria's actions against certain ngos, and this in the face of so many proven examples of collusion, attacks or infiltration by these organisations which call for caution? at a time when islamism is raping and beheading, it is urgent to close ranks because it is obvious that this war will only be won by sovereign nations.
madam president! nigeria, africa's most populous country, with a population of 200 million people, is a potentially very rich country, because of its vast natural resources, primarily oil. unfortunately, due to the corruption that has been going on for years, it is one of the poorest countries in the world. 87 million people live in extreme poverty. it's the second largest population in the world after india. but terrorism is arguably the biggest problem facing nigeria. according to the global terrorism index, nigeria is the third most affected country by terrorism, after iraq and afghanistan. christians are the primary victims of islamic terrorism. in a decade, nearly 20,000 people were killed in nigeria, and two million were displaced. we call on president buhari today, who has been in power since 2015, to finally start protecting his people effectively. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i agree with what mr rzońca said. christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world today. today we're talking about what's happening in nigeria, but in october we talked about the situation in egypt. there, too, christians are persecuted. yes, i think that in this term, following the example of the previous term, we should have a debate in the european parliament on the situation of christians in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 11 christians shot and beheaded on christmas day, many more killed: a real bloody christmas in nigeria. the attacks were claimed by the boko haram faction, which, together with iswap, represents the armed wing of the islamic state. islamist violence has increased even more under buhari's new presidency, despite promises. christians in nigeria are discriminated against everywhere, even in schools, they are abused in every way. in 2018, at least 1,200 people were killed and 200,000 displaced due to islamist violence. christians are being targeted because of their faith, yet in the text of the resolution we are voting on today the word 'christian' is virtually absent, and yesterday, in the vote on human rights, the amendments on persecuted christians were rejected by this house. if we are to be serious and concrete, we must first recognize the victims and the perpetrators and then we must condition our policy of cooperation in nigeria to a serious fight against islamist terrorism.
president, thousands of dead, millions displaced, kidnappings, destroyed homes and burned churches, that is the sad balance sheet of a decade of violence in nigeria. the historical rivalry between the muslim north and the christian south has increased severely, especially with the spread of radical islam: boko haram and the islamic state. the long-running conflict between fulani herders and christian farmers in the middle belt is intensifying, and the intensity and nature of the attacks indicate that there is indeed a very clear religious component to the conflict. in any case, the reality is that conflict is robbing more and more people of their homes, human dignity and daily lives. meanwhile, the nigerian government's approach is grossly flawed. we are right to call attention to this in our resolution today. the question remains, however, what concrete action the eu will actually take to combat the violence in nigeria.
author. – madam president, 3d printing is a technology with significant economic potential for european businesses, notably for small, innovative enterprises, and many countries have started to adapt strategies to promote its development. the technology, however, also raises legal and ethical questions. different studies by the commission have shown the existence of loopholes in eu legislation regarding the use of 3d printing. recent tragic events have raised concerns and confirmed the need for action at eu level. on 9 october 2019, two people were killed and two people were injured in halle, germany, when an attacker tried to enter the local synagogue during yom kippur, the jewish holiday. the attacker used a 3d—printed weapon, the blueprint of which he uploaded on twitter. already in its 2018 report, the committee on legal affairs (juri) expressed concerns regarding the manufacturing of weapons, explosives, drugs and other hazardous products in the context of 3d printing, but also regarding the problems relating to civil liability and intellectual property rights. in light of the urgency of this matter, the juri committee would like to ask the commission the following: how do you intend to tackle this problem raised by the use of 3d—printed illicit objects? do you foresee taking any legislative action based on ongoing and previous studies and evaluations? if so, which eu measures do you foresee to be impacted, and what is the timeline of the actions you plan to undertake? what will you do to ensure a timely response? finally, what progress has been made regarding the actions the commission has committed to undertake following the 2018 juri committee report?
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, thank you to the commission for its answer. well, allow me to continue in my mother tongue, dutch. voorzitter, 3d-printen: het is een technologie die inmiddels een flinke vlucht heeft genomen en nog steeds veel potentie heeft voor europese bedrijven, voor zowel grote bedrijven als het midden- en kleinbedrijf. de mogelijkheden zijn eindeloos en het heeft ons leven al stukken verbeterd. denk bijvoorbeeld aan het printen van protheses in de medische wereld, of in de bouw, waar een klein huis inmiddels al in 48 uur kan worden opgetrokken. maar zoals bij vele innovaties kent ook deze innovatie een keerzijde wanneer ze in verkeerde handen valt, zoals we hebben kunnen zien bij die verschrikkelijke gebeurtenis in halle, duitsland, waar iemand de synagoge probeerde binnen te dringen en waarbij twee mensen gedood zijn en twee mensen gewond zijn geraakt. hoewel 3d-printen ons dus veel goeds brengt, mogen we onze ogen niet sluiten voor andere mogelijkheden en gevaarlijke toepassingen, zoals het printen van wapens, explosieven of drugs. we moeten onszelf daarom de vraag stellen of we het nu wel goed genoeg geregeld hebben, en het antwoord is nee. de commissie gaf net al aan dat ze stappen heeft genomen, het operational action plan. ook de politie en vervolgingsinstanties zijn hierop gezet. maar de vraag is of dit voldoende is, want als je erin duikt, blijkt er inderdaad een lappendeken te zijn over regels van intellectueel eigendom, maar ook civiele aansprakelijkheid en natuurlijk de vuurwapenrichtlijn. de commissie zei zelf al dat de wapens illegaal geprint zijn. ja goed, hoe gaan we dat voorkomen? want toch kon dit gebeuren. mijn vraag is dus aan de commissie: u heeft al gezegd welke acties u heeft ondernomen, maar moet er nog nieuwe wetgeving komen en komen er nieuwe standaarden? want ik geloof dat u echt wel – en iedereen hier met mij – van mening is dat zo’n incident als in duitsland nooit meer zou mogen voorkomen.
president. - the refugees on the greek islands are being traumatised. the inhuman treatment, the long waiting times and the lack of medical facilities are making them victims for a second time. unaccompanied children are left to their own devices and are at great risk. i am drawing a picture of a europe in which we share responsibility for asylum policy. the tragedy is that this situation on the greek islands has been going on for four years and has only got worse instead of better. i welcome the commission's call to the member states. i am also glad that there is more support and i also ask the commission to send not only easo but also doctors and other aid workers. i would also like to call on the member states to evacuate the people who are there now and to distribute them among the member states, starting with the children. only then can we really talk about european values again.
mr president, in my region there has been a great loss of jobs in the car industry for the last year, 1700 jobs have been lost there. those people are home now. the reason for this is the uncertainty about mobility in europe. in china, there is no such doubt. that's where a lot of jobs are being created right now by investing in sustainability. that's what we're going to do now. the eu's mobility and transport strategy must be about employment. the production of sustainable vehicles will create thousands of new jobs. this must be an important part of our strategy. so i call on you to invest not only in sustainable mobility, but also in the jobs of the future.
madam president, this week i was present at a commemoration in auschwitz-birkenau with a renew europe delegation, and yesterday we listened to the impressive words of auschwitz survivor liliane segre. her memories are a dark reminder of what a world without respect for liberal values looks like. they are a reminder that we cannot take these values for granted. anti-semitism still exists on our continent. the rule of law is still under pressure in the eu. renew europe welcomes the ambition of the commission to make european values and rule of law a priority. but ambition is not enough. we need concrete action: a rule-of-law mechanism. and there are more challenges that deserve our attention. we urgently need a sustainable european approach to migration to regain control. a renewed migration and asylum pact was launched a few weeks ago: a comprehensive answer. but we did our homework, and now it’s time for the commission to act. the transformation of our economy into a competitive green digital and innovative powerhouse is another main priority for us. and on the world stage we should be leveraging our economic power, combined with strong diplomacy, security and defence policies. only then do you become a stronger global actor, and i call upon the european commission to embrace renew europe’s ambitions to deliver on the promise of europe.
madam president, the 2020 work programme is not yet decisive on the future of our common european asylum system and that is because, at the moment, plans are designed for the new pact on asylum, which the presidency has announced in a first speech already. the most important thing is that we find a solution for the deadlock of the distribution of asylum seekers. i would really urge the commission and also the member states to find a solution so that we finally really get a fair share of responsibility for asylum seekers in europe, and that requires an immediate distribution of asylum seekers directly from the external borders. many member states are thinking now and proposing a kind of procedure at the borders, meaning that there’s an assessment, a screening of the asylum request. i would really encourage you not to go along with that route because that would mean more hotspot situations and lengthy procedures with lengthy detention. the greens proposed to have an immediate distribution and, furthermore, really start enforcing the current rules that we have on reception, on qualification, so that we really get a harmonised system for asylum seekers, and fair responsibility sharing.
president, the european green deal is our new growth strategy. this is stated in the commission's 2020 work programme. but all that is known about it now is that it will cost 11.5 billion euros. what it entails and what it will mean for citizens and businesses is completely unclear. meanwhile, the green deal is being legislated, making the process irreversible. the european commission will be the driving force behind the economy through taxonomy. a shady game, because unchosen euro-fans will decide what is "green" and what is "brown". it will be more control, more bureaucracy and above all more european union. the climate is being abused to transfer even more power to brussels. a planned economy that our eastern european colleagues said goodbye to 30 years ago. more money and more power. brussels can never have enough. democracy is a long way off. this is not what the citizens want. and with this policy, more member states will follow the british.
madam president, my british friends, yesterday i was faced with an almost impossible choice, and in the end i voted for the protection of the rights of british and european citizens, at least for in the foreseeable future. nobody wins with brexit and here in parliament we lose colleagues and dear friends, and i will lose my neighbour here in the plenary. luisa, we both arrived here in may, young and ambitious, and we both still had the hope of stopping brexit. it has been a true pleasure to have sat next to you in all our group meetings and here in plenary, but above all, you have become one of my best friends. brexit may raise a lot of barriers, but these will not hinder our friendship. thank you, and thanks to my british colleagues. i wish you all the best and i’m looking forward to the day when you will be again among us.
madam president, we are happy that the commission has released this proposal as we expect now from the member states that the adoption of this proposal will lead to the start of the negotiations with north macedonia and albania. can the commission and presidency assure us that once this methodology is adopted, the council will show its green light in may? i hope that all the pressure will be exerted on the member states. we welcome the emphasis on rule of law, as well as the flexibility which enables the eu to more effectively support the candidate countries during the process. however, we have some concerns about the procedure to reverse the process without unanimity being required. this makes it easier to reverse the process than to start the process. how can the commissioner prevent this from leading, for instance, to political arbitrariness in the decision-making and to more insecurity for the candidate countries? it can also be questioned from an institutional perspective that a different legal procedure is applied in the reversal moment from the one applied in the moment of starting the accession. so can you please elaborate on this dilemma?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, quite honestly, i do not know of many parliaments in the world where such a high-quality debate can be held on these subjects today. we have all, despite our party differences, shared, in essence, the same questions, the same feelings, the same desires, the same wishes. i'm actually remembering something. in this evolution - this evolution which will last, i am not afraid to say, for years, even decades - i would like to stress that what your parliament as a whole, and the commission with it, share is the place of man, the place of man, respect for our values, respect for who we are, the integrity of our decisions, understanding in relation to the phenomena around us, the intelligence of situations: what is happening? who makes the decisions? will it change my life? can i still intervene? can i still turn against a body that has made a decision that i don't agree with? all these questions, ladies and gentlemen, are indeed covered in this white paper. i repeat, it is called the white paper on artificial intelligence, but it is only the beginning of our reflection on what i myself have called reflection, the structuring of a new space in which we now work, in which we train, in which we entertain, in which we exchange, which is the information space. it is essentially superimposed on the three other spaces which have gradually helped to shape what we are today, and also to organise our life in society: first, of course, the territorial space, and then, with the conquests, the maritime space and the air space. and today, the information space. so, yes, artificial intelligence is one of the first elements. i share a second observation, which you all share, and which i rejoice because it was a struggle i myself also fought. through the applications that we are going to have to manage, that are going to shape our decisions and our lives a little bit, the applications of artificial intelligence, or, as you yourself have called it, madam president, automated decision-making, there is data. we all share this, too: no data, no artificial intelligence. we've been a little too focused on the algorithms, those lines of code, as you said. it's not vintage, the lines of code (maybe, tomorrow, after all, they will no longer be lines of code, when we are in quantum computing, they will be different processes). today, this is what allows us to work, with this intimate relationship between a modelling of our environment in the form of 1s and 0s (soon they will be qubits) and, precisely, the decisions we are ready to make. but behind this, there is obviously data - which has been brought up by some of you, by the way, with the parable or the metaphor of the wolf and the dog in the forest. but what did you mean by that? what you obviously meant was that when you take data that characterizes an animal in its natural environment, if you take the same animal in another environment, obviously you're going to have differences in the application that comes from the algorithm and therefore the process of what's called the learning phase, machine learning, that's going to integrate all of this data. yes, data is essential, and this is also the battle we want to fight in the commission, with you, to define how to characterize this data and our european data. some say, i heard it from the benches of your assembly, that we must not miss this turn. we may have been late, but i don't think so. i don't think we're behind in terms of technology. but in any case, this turn, this data, you must not miss it. you are right, because the data that is in front of us and that will allow us to feed intelligently, with data that contains our values, is obviously all the new processes in front of us, industrial data, what is called the b2b, public data, the data that will obviously come from the world of health, so important for all of us, transportation... all of this data is right in front of us. every 18 months, the amount of data that now makes up the world's information portfolio doubles. so, obviously, you can't miss this wave. this wave is precisely what we want to do at the commission. several elements: first, of course, not to regulate too much at the exit. it's too soon. today we are talking about artificial intelligence, a specific exploitation of this data, tomorrow we will talk about something else. we must be careful that everything that comes out is fully compatible with our values and gives the people the freedom to choose. remember what i just said: choose. the freedom to choose. not be a prisoner of an algorithm, a system, a data manager, a platform. the ability to maintain this choice is a fundamental value in the information world. it's something to work on. to be able to find in these solutions what we are attached to. finally, of course, to be able to do it safely - legal security, of course, ethical security, but also information security, cyber security. these are absolutely essential topics. the reflection we are proposing will also include a reflection on infrastructure. we need infrastructures that can store this data, that can house the applications the selective applications, the intelligent applications. we also need to have control of our information systems, supercomputers, machine learning that will drive, month after month, this data. we must also be able to project ourselves into the technologies of tomorrow in order to maintain this sovereignty and to maintain what makes us different, that is to say, the ability to choose, along the whole chain, what will increasingly condition part of our lives, while being extraordinarily attentive to the fact that this shaping of the fourth information space, of which i spoke just now, overlaps entirely with the foundation of values that constitute our european continent.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the commission's statement on smes and better regulation [2020/2521 (rsp)) ] is discussed below.
member of the commission. mr president, there is no transition from the world of data to the world of smes but there is a transition, in fact, because the world of data will shape much of the economic activity on our continent and will, i am absolutely convinced, inspire many of our small businesses, so important a foundation for our entire economic fabric. president von der leyen said it right here in this house not so long ago: smes represent everything that is essential and good in our economy. we know the numbers; you know them as well as i do. it is an extraordinarily dense, extraordinarily important fabric of women and men entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs who, for almost all of them, have created their businesses and work day and night fighting to develop them - also fighting against the barriers, which it is our role to make smaller. ninety-nine per cent of european enterprises are smes, and they account for two thirds of our jobs. it is clear that smes must therefore be given our full attention. that is why, as part of my responsibility as the internal market officer, it is absolutely essential to ensure that our smes can also benefit from some of what we have just discussed, but also from the major issues that will shape the evolution of our continent, in particular the european green deal, which will change many of our behaviours and the way we act, produce and consume. so, to help all smes, first there is an important element: the president of the commission has asked me to appoint an ems envoy - i don't know how to translate this into french - a representative of smes who will allow me, precisely, to be the link between smes and the entire portfolio i am in charge of, by being constantly on the ground and bringing up all the problems that exist on the ground and that we could perhaps easily eliminate to make sure that the energies allow us to go forward. to do this, of course, we will have to legislate a little better for smes. there are still too many constraints that enclose and hold them back, which in turn limit the fluidity of the internal market and the ability of smes to use it. so better regulation also means applying the one in, one out principle to any new regulation: making sure that when you propose a new regulation, you withdraw one. the aim, of course, is not to deregulate, but to make our legislation more flexible, more agile, better adapted to the current environment for smes, especially in the digital age, so that smes can benefit from all that this evolution will bring in terms of changing the way they work, but also produce and establish a relationship with their own customers. smes are already part of regular evaluation, impact assessments; we must continue to pursue them: here again, we must move forward by looking at what is working well, by correcting what can be wrong, and this is something i intend to develop precisely with the help of this famous representative of smes. the new strategy we are working on for smes is to give them a stronger voice in the better regulation initiative, and we would like to propose a number of actions in this regard. i would also like to say that we are working closely with vice-president šefčovič on this. our overall objective is to ensure that all commission proposals are designed on the basis of the principle 'think small first', starting from where value is created on the ground, at sme level, and then going upwards, and not the other way around. as i said, we really need to give a much bigger role, much bigger attention to the cumulative impact of legislation when introducing new obligations. i experienced it myself - it wasn't yesterday, but i was a creator of smes and i know what it is - that these loads often give you the feeling of strangling you, of putting you - i experienced it physically - head underwater. now, we really need to help businesses, and digital is going to help us change all that. we are extremely fortunate to have a single market of 450 million consumers, a single market which is in fact governed, as we said in the previous debate, by common values, by common passions and also, of course, by common rules, common standards. that's our deal. many envy us, by the way; that's what makes us different. because it exists, too, so that we can answer those who knock on our doors, or argue with those who want to leave us. this market is our foundation. it's our common good. this must also be the instrument available to smes. there are still too many barriers today, far too many. it is difficult for an sme to sell its products outside the borders, i know that. a great deal of work is therefore needed in this area to ensure that the extraordinary opportunity of the internal market is open to all our smes. it is true that digital technology will help us considerably. we are already seeing some very large players benefiting from what digital can bring to platforms for selling their products or services across borders. i want to make this transposition possible for european smes. i would like to conclude by saying that it is essential, as regards the quality of our legislation, to also mention the regulatory review committee, which is responsible for monitoring the quality of impact assessments. this is very important for the world of smes. major evaluations and quality checks accompany the commission's proposals. it is therefore an essential instrument. again, as a former sme entrepreneur, i know that it is very important to be able to be heard and, when new legislation is created, to be able to say 'wait! this is ok; this is not ok; here, why don't we change this a little bit?'. it will be an obviously independent body, listening to its stakeholders, and not an advisory committee. it considers that a positive or concurrent opinion from this body will be essential for an initiative to be submitted to the commission for a decision. it is a very important instrument and, i believe, quite innovative, which will help smes to tell us about the problems they are facing and help members of parliament and the commission to solve them. that is what i wanted to say to you to introduce this debate. this is an absolutely crucial subject. there are many opportunities in the world that is opening up to us, but also many challenges, and i look forward to hearing the terms of your debate so that i can then provide some answers.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank commissioner breton for presenting the views of the commission. smes are really the backbone of our economy. they represent 99% of all businesses in the european union, so their role is crucial when we speak about jobs and growth or innovations or competitiveness of europe. i’m very happy that the new commission has now many excellent goals to improve the position of smes in europe. eu regulation needs to better help our smes to scale up, drive and expand. i would like to stress three points here. first of all, better regulation, which is the main topic of today’s discussion. i would like to put a very specific question to the commission: how will the commission measure implementation costs of european union legislation ex ante and ex post so that the compliance costs for smes are reduced, while at the same time safeguarding environmental, labour and social standards? and because i know that vice-president šefčovič is responsible for this – better regulation, i would like to ask if it’s possible to receive a written answer to this specific question. but then two other points related to your portfolio, commissioner breton. first of all, i am very happy at the introduction of an sme envoy, which has been parliament’s request for a long time, and it would also be good to hear where the commission is planning to locate the announced sme envoy in order to oversee all relevant dgs and services. the third point is more for the preparation of the sme strategy, and it’s about late payments, because this is something that we are now hearing very much from the smes and stakeholders: that they have bigger and bigger problems with late payments, and that often the big companies – big customers – do not respect the timelines. i hope that the commission will address the problem of late payments when preparing the sme strategy, because better enforcement of the late payments directive is needed so that smes too can benefit from the directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are very happy to be involved in the programme you have brought here for a strategy for smes. i would even say that we are looking forward to working on these issues after years of asking for a strategy for enterprises and smes without any result. i have to say that the first step in creating good regulation is also to reassess the issue of the criteria for defining smes. i would remind you, commissioner, that parliament recently expressed its views on this matter, before the consultation, and reaffirmed the existing criteria, especially the number of employees and all those elements which must not weigh on the reality of small and mediumsized enterprises, recalling that in some countries enterprises are even very small, even micro and even family-run. i would like to remind you of a few points on the strategy in general, also as rapporteur for cosme. first of all: the work you're doing on value chains is very important; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. secondly: the dialogue between industry, research, schools and universities to promote appropriate training is too weak today, especially in some countries. there is also this point in the strategy, because good legislative instruments are needed, but they must be contained in order to promote skills and training to support the staff of smes. finally, innovation, digitisation and scale-up are key elements of this strategy and we are confident that it will take them into account. i don't see good rules separated from good content. good rules and good legislative procedures, good preventive and impact assessments cannot be separated from the content that we will put as the main content of the strategy.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for the positive comments. it's good that we're holding the bar so high and we're ambitious. we are all eagerly awaiting the european commission to present its vision for a european industrial policy that will provide a new impetus for economic growth, go hand in hand with innovation, stand on solid foundations and withstand the challenges ahead. i understand we're still trying to figure out the best way to do this. for example, we have had countless discussions on the role of multinational companies and what needs to be done to create successful and dynamic businesses in the eu. some colleagues here in the ep see the need to adjust the competition rules to allow the growth of really big european companies, so-called european champions, who would be able to compete with players on global markets. but beware, let me remind you and emphasize one essential thing: no great company started out great. she always had to work, always had to start somewhere. europe has one important advantage in this respect, and that is the enormous potential of our smes. the figures speak for themselves, these companies have shown positive trends in recent years, both in terms of value added and job creation. i would therefore like to know how the european commission intends to respond to the call for the european market to be truly large and globally competitive, while at the same time not forgetting small and medium-sized enterprises, which undoubtedly deserve real support in order to prosper and grow, both in the internal market and in the international market. once again, i welcome the efforts of the european commission and you personally to focus on smes. i would like to know how you and the commission intend to ensure that the 'think small first' principle, that is to say the principle of taking account of the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, is actually incorporated in all the initiatives that the commission is proposing.
two points of information: firstly, we are still in the round of initial statements by the political groups and, therefore, according to the rules, there is no blue card procedure at this stage. secondly, we are behind schedule and therefore i cannot guarantee at this time that it will be possible to have the catch the eye procedure. i ask everyone to meet the intervention times.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, in the european union, small and mediumsized enterprises account for more than 99% of enterprises and two thirds of private sector employment. their creation and competitiveness must therefore be encouraged, as they are an essential lever for economic development. this is all the more important as the rise of digital technology and artificial intelligence is an opportunity for them to seize. let's help them take advantage of it to enable the most inventive among them to become the economic giants of tomorrow. the european union must therefore put its economic policy in order. it should facilitate their access to finance by encouraging banks to grant them loans, in particular by granting them loan guarantees. it must also create the conditions for fair competition within the european market for them, and also renegotiate free trade agreements which give too much to large companies. finally, it must simplify the allocation of financial aid, the complexity of which often discourages companies from applying for it. in conclusion, commissioner thierry breton, i am rather sceptical about the commission's real desire to improve things, because your idea of appointing a 'mr sme' seems to me to be a gimmick.
[inaudible] debate, then what is then the sense of sitting here?
your point of protest is noted, but i have not made any decision on that matter. this is a guideline that all members are aware of regarding the management of the blue cards which are not granted in the initial speeches of the political groups, that is to say, in the first round. that is a well-known rule, i have not made any decision on that matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy and they also reflect important entrepreneurial traditions in our countries. however, because of the size of the limited resources, they are often penalized by constraints and inadequate standards. the creation of a regulatory and administrative framework that is favourable to them is an objective we support in order to provide them with new tools to support the challenges of a globalised economy. the challenge of defining, including also specific measures for micro-enterprises, is fundamental and the opportunity to abandon these principles is immediate. we want a strengthening of the investeu programme to provide greater support for investment in smes and also a new industrial policy strategy of the commission that leverages innovation, internationalisation and access to credit. we often hear, ladies and gentlemen, that the european union is too far removed from the daily reality of small businesses. it is good that we remember this in this house too. closing this gap is in the interest not only of business but of our entire social fabric.
mr president, commissioner breton, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join my colleague henna virkkunen in asking you and mr šefčovič to answer our questions in writing. firstly, on the sme filter: the commission is currently applying the existing sme test voluntarily in its impact assessments. what is the practical outcome of the transformation of this test into the actual sme filter announced, and how do you intend to remedy and improve the current shortcomings of the sme test so that the sme filter becomes an effective tool? when carrying out comprehensive impact assessments of planned legislation in the future, will the specific impact on smes be assessed? and the sme filter should be binding and truly independent. i have a specific question here: what about the european green deal, is it included? because i believe very strongly that the european green deal legislation will have a significant impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. on the question of the regulatory scrutiny committee: so far we have three independent experts. here we need to strengthen this committee and actually see that we get to an independent review body. and finally, the third point: in the case of gold plating, national, regional issues are often exacerbated, and we must see that this gold plating does not take place. i would like to conclude, commissioner, by saying what you said at the beginning about the sme commissioner, about the 'one in, one out' principle and about the question of 'more say in parliament': full support for the epp. the epp is on your side in the case of better legislation.
mr president, last friday i spoke to hans. seven years ago, hans had an innovative idea. an online ticketing platform. his business grew from a loft to a large office, now covering 4,000 square feet. that's great! we need these entrepreneurs with courage and vision in the netherlands and in europe. hans told me that he was happy with a harmonised european approach, but the jumble of rules now makes it almost impossible to comply everywhere. a common complaint when it comes to doing business across the border. administrative constraints, difficulty in obtaining financing and access to other markets are barriers faced by these entrepreneurs. that is not the intention, of course, because the ease of doing business across borders is one of the eu's main advantages. in short, european policies must encourage entrepreneurship and respond to the specific needs of the workplace. finally, i would ask the commission to include its own 'one in, one out' principle in these plans, because for every rule that is imposed, one must be removed. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted by a large majority)
blue-card question. – mr president, thank you very much for your kindness, and commissioner, thank you. i want to ask ms schreinemacher, because she gives an excellent example of how the burdens are for smes in the internal market. perhaps an idea: what do you think of the idea of introducing a legally-binding arbitration for smes that smes can initiate, together with the national solvit, and that the ecj will take a short-track decision until, at the end of the procedure, the member states will say ‘no’ or ‘yes’. what do you think of this idea? perhaps mr breton can answer there too.
blue-card answer. – thank you mr manders for your question. i don’t know the details now of your proposal and i wouldn’t know how it would fit in the dutch or european justice system, but i do think the fact that you are making it easier and less time-consuming as a means to start and finish the legal procedure is a great idea. i’m happy to hear what commissioner breton has to say about this and how the details would work, but yes, i would support any way of making it shorter.
i have read the new eu sme strategy carefully. i mean, honest intentions, but entrepreneurs are stubborn people. they have their own vision. they don't let themselves be guided by a government, almost, i would say. an entrepreneur has no time for that, but he has no desire to do so. i speak from experience, because i was an entrepreneur before i entered this house. but you can help smes, not by coming up with 50 action points, but by abolishing regulations. mr trump was part of the way in which he stimulated the us economy. for every new line, there are eight lines deleted. so please be careful with taxonomy as well. that is going to indirectly create a lot of extra regulatory pressure on smes. and if you really want to make rules, i have two for you: the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. no, i definitely don't think that's the answer. we are against taxes regulated by the european union anyway, that is a matter for the member states. but it's not just about taxes, it's about gdpr regulations and all kinds of things that are just very taxing on smes. it's not just about taxes. but taxation is a national matter and we certainly do not want to touch on that.
member of the commission. – mr president, two months ago i presented my views on the future of the trans-european networks – energy (ten-e) regulation before the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). this evening i have the opportunity to address this important issue before this plenary. in the green deal resolution adopted in january, parliament stressed the importance of modern, clean, secure and smart new energy infrastructure for delivering the european green deal. i share the same vision. turning this vision into reality requires making the ten-e regulation adopted in 2013 fit for europe’s future energy system and fully aligned with the european green deal. if we want to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, we have no time to lose. as you know, the commission was due to carry out an evaluation on ten-e this year. i have decided to accelerate this evaluation and in parallel to start work on a revision of the ten-e regulation in order to present a legislative proposal in december 2020. the overarching objective is to design a future-proof framework that will allow us to fund the infrastructure we need for the european green deal. the focus will clearly shift to deploying clean energy across the whole economy in the most efficient way. by 2050, the share of electricity in the total energy consumption is expected to be more than double. we need electricity infrastructures and innovative technologies such as smart grids, offshore wind and hydrogen that works. also carbon capture, storage and utilisation and energy storage. the new framework should in particular look at promoting sector integration, and i will consult widely stakeholders in the preparation of the proposal. and of course i will involve parliament early on. i commit to speed up work as much as possible, but we cannot risk cutting corners. that’s why december is our targeted date for adoption. i hope council and parliament will be able to process this proposal quickly, as they have done for other priority proposals in the past. but it is possible that the new regulation will not be in force in time for the adoption of the 5th projects of common interest (pci) list in fall 2021. in this case, i intend to already ensure that the process for the selection of the 5th list of projects of common interest will already reflect the european green deal priorities. that means, firstly, that the sustainability criteria for all candidate projects will be strengthened to take better into account for each project its co2 and methane emissions. secondly, i will strive to integrate more energy transition projects in the 5th pci process, in particular smart clean co2 infrastructure projects. i commit to work closely with the member states and project promoters to help bring forward these projects. and, thirdly, i will strengthen the involvement of parliament during key steps in the selection process, including the regional groups. i intend to establish a continuous political dialogue with you and the itre committee. i will be guided by the objective to include more innovative projects enabling the transmission of renewable and decarbonised gases and projects enabling the smart integration of electricity and gas networks. finally, the oral question asks how we will approach the funding from the connecting europe facility (cef) of the projects in the 4th pci list. the pci label is a precondition for cef funding, but not a guarantee. while respecting the current rules and procedures, the commission will ensure that the european green deal will provide the background against which the selection process for pci funding will be assessed. i note that already the cef regulation governing the financing of pcis gives priority to electricity projects over gas. honourable members, i have set out my views for the future of ten-e. in this light, i hope that parliament will vote in favour of the 4th pci list. the list includes key infrastructure projects that sustain the increasing share of renewables, address the remaining energy security challenges and underpin the modernisation of an integrated infrastructure. electricity projects make up three quarters of the 4th pci list. an objection to the 4th pci list would mean that the 3rd pci list remains in force, a list with 40% more gas projects than the new list. as a consequence, key electricity interconnectors and energy transition projects such as the north sea wind-power hub, new smart green projects and new co2 network projects would not be eligible for funding under the connecting europe facility. i have set out how i intend to work on an energy infrastructure policy fit for the future. i will work closely together with parliament. i count on your input and support for making the ten-e policy a driving force for europe’s climate neutrality transition.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, i call for an urgent revision of the ten-e guidelines – a revision consistent with the energy and climate objectives in all the five dimensions of the energy union: decarbonisation, security of supply, internal energy market, energy efficiency, more research leading to affordability and breakthroughs in low-carbon technologies. the european commission has recently published the fourth list of projects of common interest. this list is based on the current guidelines, not taking into account the new climate ambition. on wednesday we are voting on an objection to this list, but we must not forget that if the fourth list is rejected, we will fall back on the third. that list includes 40% more gas projects than the commissioner just said, compared with the fourth. it is much less ambitious in terms of climate change goals. the revision i’m asking for is also an opportunity to reassess some of the pcis. the commission should consider the crucial needs of certain regions, as is the case of the projects of the iberian peninsula and other regions in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are discussing today concrete projects that should be in line with what we were discussing just a few weeks ago in this same chamber: the european green deal. in our quest to move towards carbon neutrality by 2050, we need to make sure that we invest in the proper infrastructure today. we can do this with the full understanding that different parts of the eu have different realities, but at the same time also understanding that investments need to be made in cleaner sources and not locking countries’ reliance on fossil fuels. in the full list of energy projects that we are discussing, there are still fossil fuel projects, including oil—supply projects. i understand that interconnection projects are necessary to ensure security of supply and solidarity among member states, which until today are still disconnected; however, this 4th list goes further and opens the door to heavy investments in completely new fossil fuel pipelines and infrastructures. things have changed drastically since the fourth projects of common interest (pci) list was drafted, including in the formation of member states that makes the european union as a whole, and this has to be taken into account, something which is clearly lacking in the formulation of this list. now, going back to the 3rd pci list is not what we need, but money should be invested in projects that can really help us move forward in the right direction. it is for these reasons that the european commission needs to carry out all the sustainability assessments required to ensure that money is invested in projects that can really make the european union carbon neutral by 2050. it is only if we do this that we are really making sure that we have projects that are in line with what we want to achieve with the european green deal.
for the renew group. mr president, first of all i am glad to see the commissioner back in good health after visiting my country here last week. and i hope that the commissioner has had a good opportunity to see how the green transition is being worked out, for example with the development of offshore wind in the north sea. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european green infrastructure fund. cross-border green investment, which should be the focus of these projects of common interest. it is only in this way that we can have a real internal energy market, by linking the markets together. and the green transition is urgent, it's -- as we all know -- it's a political movement that demands that we act. this is also true of the way we invest and, not least, what we invest in, which is why the discussion we are having tonight on the so-called pcis is so important. of course, we cannot afford to invest in the wrong way and to invest in black instead of green. and we have to be careful not to invest in projects that risk ending up as what are called 'stranded assets' in english, and that is why we at renews want to push as hard as possible so that we can change the basic criteria for the investments we make to ensure that the investments are in line with the paris objectives. we also want to ensure that the european commission uses its ability to assess all projects to ensure that they meet these very objectives, and i am pleased to hear the commissioner's commitment to speed up the process of reviewing the basic criteria, because it is urgent, precisely so that we can ensure that we are investing green and not black. and so let me say that i am in full agreement with what has been said before: this fourth list is preferable to the third list, but we must make sure that we revise the very basic criteria, this is important for the green transition.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, thank you commissioner. i have to say, when i read the green deal of the commission, it reads very promisingly. it’s talking about bringing europe on a new path to a new economy, and it’s talking about a move away from harmful subsidies. and then at the same time, you are defending here the 4th list of these projects of common interests, which are fossil subsidies. you are here defending just more fossil subsidies. where is the green deal promise of a new path? where is that? even you acknowledged in your speech already that everything will be better when we do the 5th list, but for now we have to accept the 4th list. that’s not how i expected a new commission with a new ambition. and to my colleagues who are saying: well, okay, it’s not ideal but let’s do it for now – are those the same colleagues who said a couple of months ago: ‘there’s a climate emergency, we need to act now’? and now we say: oh, let’s just give more fossil subsidies to fossil fuel projects which will make us more dependent of a gas lock-in and will not bring us to a climate-neutral economy that is so desperately needed. this is really a mistake: you can change it. that was the old commission. the new commission can do better now.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. a great investment in essential infrastructure. the proposal includes high-pressure gas pipelines, but our green colleagues in this house see nothing in gas and want to see investment in this infrastructure scrapped. but how naive is that? they do not want nuclear energy either. only solar and wind, but with that choice, you always need a backup, for when there's no sun and no wind. the green group must recognize that gas-fired power stations are the best solution. we must continue this investment because affordable energy and a reliable energy supply are essential to our economy. with these gas networks we have also solved the problem in the netherlands and eight million households can keep their gas connection. we don't have to all be on this crazy heat pump.
we are faced with a complex task and we can only achieve our objectives by making wise choices step by step. for example, it is wise to invest in feasible and affordable solutions and not to abandon technologies simply because they do not fit into a certain ideal. one example is carbon capture and storage, a technology that is essential for making industry sustainable. i am therefore pleased to see that investment is being made in projects of this kind in the north sea. it is also a wise choice to invest in the transition from coal to gas in certain parts of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transition to the single market is not a waste of time. it is a wise choice to invest in european infrastructure. we should tackle this at european level and not in the individual member states, because in the future each member state will be able to specify how energy is generated. but together we can ensure that we complement each other, catch each other's peaks and troughs and increase efficiency, energy security, flexibility and affordability. but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget this: the european union cannot do this alone. to stop climate change, the rest of the world will have to join in. the only way we can inspire them is to make a transition in europe feasible and affordable and to make wise choices.
mr president, unfortunately, we can only object to or accept the current projects of common interest (pci) list as a whole. we do not have a say on individual projects, and i have many objections. first, no environmental assessment has been undertaken. what are the effects of the current list with respect to the european green deal and ambition of this parliament? this list will lock us into fossil fuels for the next decades. it would be irresponsible to spend billions of taxpayers’ money on these projects. second, talking about the taxpayers’ money, the current pci list contains more than 20 uk projects, of which 6 are not linked to the eu at all. should we really pay with our taxpayers’ money for projects between the uk and norway while we know that many regions in europe need that money for their transition? the only way for us to get an adapted list is to vote against the current list. we need a list that serves the european common interest, and is in line with our ambition towards a sustainable europe. so, colleagues, vote like i will – for the objection.
madam president, today it is time to start building our future relationship with our british friends. so let’s look at our common interests and goals and see how these can best be served instead of only looking at what divides us. therefore, i insist on an ambitious free trade agreement that creates the right conditions for open and fair competition. having said that, a third country can obviously not enjoy the same benefits as an eu member state, and the openness of our markets must directly correlate with the willingness of the uk to align with eu rules and standards. it remains essential that the eu continues to stand united. we need to maintain our high standards, have clear rules on state aid and competition and strive for a fisheries agreement before the summer. i regret brexit and will continue to do so, but now it is time to move forward and build our new relationship.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank mr borrell for his clear statement on the illegal israeli occupation of palestine. they have both the right and the duty to say so, whatever, for example, hungary may think. if the eu passively allows the israeli occupation to expand, we are not only breaking the un's laws, but our own laws as well. i would like to know, however, what is meant by the fact that annexations will not remain 'uncontested'. i hope that the eu will finally respond with action, not just words. in 2016, the un security council adopted resolution 2334. it also includes "differentiation", that is, a separation between israel and the settlements. we should therefore make 'differentiation' the guiding principle of the eu and stop all dealings with the settlements on trade, economy, culture, etc. and then our high representative has the authority not only to condemn israel's destruction of eu-funded projects, to ease the lives of the palestinians, but also to demand compensation. israel has destroyed millions. that money must be returned to the taxpayers of the eu. but thank you for your efforts so far.
we can of course find all sorts of things wrong with the peace plan and criticize all kinds of aspects of it. but please let's not do that today. that's not going to advance the peace process. the added value of the plan is that at least something is on the table. so let's give it a fair shot. i have only one appeal to the palestinian authority: stop protecting terrorists, recognize the state of israel and sit around the table, start talking. i strongly disagree with the statement made by the high representative. in your statement of 4 february you went no further than to criticise israel and the united states, in effect saying to abbas: i can understand why you are not going to negotiate, i wouldn't do it myself. i think that's the wrong message at the wrong time. you have wrongly made this statement as a statement on behalf of the european union. if there is no unanimity in the council, you cannot speak on behalf of the eu!
madam president, firstly, i would like to thank commission president von der leyen for undertaking her first international trip to the african union – an important signal. africa and europe are at a crossroads, and we need to change our mindset, it is time to see each other as equals. we have the most promising continent right at our doorstep. highly promising initiatives are being taken, and the african continental free trade area is the latest example of this. this ambitious project can transform africa into a bastion of multilateralism. i call on the european commission to do everything it can to support and facilitate the creation of the african continental free trade area. the upcoming paper from the commission should reflect this and contain a number of concrete measures on this. it is very much in our own interest to have a united african union. we should embrace it when others seek to unite themselves, especially in times when certain forces are out there to defeat us. the partnership between the european union and the african countries should be one of equals.
madam president, with the ‘muzzle law’, the polish government has outlawed their judges. they are now not only intimidated, but also criminalised for exercising their profession, which is judging independently and in line with eu law. this is another alarming step towards a dictatorial and undemocratic state because this curtailment not only destroys the checks and balances, but it also deprives citizens of their right to be protected against their authorities, and, in the end, it affects all of us as it puts our core values at risk. impunity also fuels the erosion of the rule of law elsewhere. i therefore urge the commission to continue its actions and to start infringement procedures, asking for an interim measure in order to suspend the enforcement of the ‘muzzle law’. but i also urge the member states not to leave the work only to the eu institutions. it’s high time that government leaders take their own responsibility by addressing the polish government. they have all the instruments in place – political and legal ones – but, until now, have preferred to hide behind the commission. the house of the rule of law is on fire and citizens, not only from poland, rightly demand that we act. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – sorry, i really don’t understand the context of this question. i’m sorry. there was a reference to the previous speaker, who talked about a silent protest, which is true. we have all seen that. they protested, very rightly, against the curtailment of their professional task, namely judging independently. you think that democracy is only the right of a majority, but that’s not the case. democracy is about protecting everyone, including minorities, and democracy cannot go without the rule of law.
madam president, this morning we voted in favour of the agreements with vietnam. it has not been an easy process but, after due consideration, i have decided to vote in favour of these agreements. while the situation in vietnam is still far from ideal, the vietnamese government has taken valuable steps in the right direction. the fta and ipa with vietnam will not only improve the trade relationship between the eu and vietnam, it will also create a platform for continuous dialogue on human rights with the vietnamese that will benefit the people of that country. our trading partners should keep human rights and environmental standards to the highest level. i would like to recommend the commission investigate how the use of a set of objective and transparent criteria would serve as guidance to find trading partners, thus enabling the negotiated ftas to benefit from broader support amongst all political colours in the eu.
(due to technical issues, ms rafaela was asked to repeat her earlier speech) madam president, this morning we voted in favour of the agreements with vietnam and it has not been an easy process, but after due consideration, i have decided to vote in favour of these agreements. while the situation in vietnam is still far from ideal, the vietnamese government has made valuable steps in the right direction. the free trade agreement (fta) and investment protection agreement (ipa) with vietnam will not only improve the trade relationship between the eu and vietnam; it will also create a platform for continuous dialogue on human rights with the vietnamese that will benefit the people of that country. our trading partners should keep human rights and the environmental standards to the highest level. i would like to recommend that the commission investigate how the use of a set of objective and transparent criteria could serve as guidance to find trading partners. therefore, the negotiated ftas can benefit from broader support amongst all political colours in the eu.
madam president, the commission has promised us a more social europe time and time again, and if we want to deliver on these promises we need to look at the real life effects the digital economy has. finding an affordable place to live has become nearly impossible in many european cities. mayors of major cities such as amsterdam, prague and barcelona have declared that short-term rental platform such as airbnb and booking are one of the main causes of the housing crisis we are currently in. airbnb wasn’t set up to let private investors buy dwellings in big cities to turn them into illegal hotels, but we have moved far beyond the initial idea of the airbed and occasional renting out of a spare room, and due to intensive lobbying european market rules are currently protecting the billions these platforms are making, rather than ensuring that people have an affordable house to live in. we need to make sure that a social europe will be at the core of our efforts towards a europe fit for the digital age, and that this isn’t an opening, a back door, for the big corporations to undermine a social europe.
president, digitisation offers many opportunities to strengthen our economy and society. more efficient production processes, better and affordable health care, safe traffic: with digitization, it's within reach. but as we move towards the increasing digitization of our society, there are three things we need to keep a close eye on. first of all: no one should be left out. people need to be able to keep up with the digitization of their environment. training and retraining are of great importance in this respect. secondly: we cannot depend on other parts of the world to develop new technology, because we want technology based on our standards and values. the people should be the focus, not the tech giant or the government that wants to oppress its citizens. thirdly: technology has to work for people. we must therefore create a framework in the digital strategy for what we do and do not want in our society. no one on the sidelines, no dependence on other parts of the world and technology that works for people. we can then protect people and take advantage of the opportunities that digitalisation offers for our society and our economy.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, women’s rights are human rights, and i would love to live in a world where i would not need to stress that women’s rights are human rights. men and women, the previous and the current generation, have worked hard to reach a point where we can advance on these issues. we should not take these rights for granted, and we should not take our democratic european society for granted. women’s rights continue to be heavily challenged, and there are recent trends of an organised backlash against women. we must not yield, but evermore show our commitment and use our voices to create a more social europe – an inclusive europe where all have the same equal opportunities, including women. this motion for a resolution is our commitment to the visionary worldwide agenda of the united nations for the empowerment of women. as representatives of our european citizens, we know that it is important to put into action our commitment for agenda 2030. women need to be on board for everything, gender equality is necessary for sustainable development, and 2020 is the year for the rapid realisation of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls. i welcome the gender—equality strategy by commissioner dalli, which is due this march. on 8 march, the world celebrates the advancement of women’s rights, but also we review all that still needs to be done. for example, improving the conditions for women in the labour market. the persistent and increasing burden of poverty on women cannot continue, and i urge members and the commission to take every single step to make sure women can reach their full potential and have equal access to the labour market and the economic opportunities our european society provides. let us continue to use our voices and acknowledge the voice of all women everywhere. our commitment to participate at the 64th session of the un commission on the status of women shows that we take this seriously.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission and the council representatives for being here this evening. i think it’s high time to get out of the migration deadlock. we owe it to our own citizens to get back into the driver’s seat. in order also to preserve free movement within the schengen area, we need strong external borders. awaiting the commission’s new pact on asylum and migration, renew europe proposed its own comprehensive approach a few weeks ago: a renew pack on asylum and migration. to relieve the pressure on eu external borders we need new international partnerships with third countries on migration. that’s the only way. meanwhile, we need a common approach for those asylum seekers still arriving irregularly at eu external borders. we want ‘direct registration upon arrival’ amended to read: security checks; humane reception conditions; a first assessment at a european reception centre between potentially failed asylum applications and those that are not; shared responsibility for those people in need of international protection; shared responsibility and effort to quickly return rejected asylum seekers to safe third countries. i have high expectations for this new pact on migration and asylum and hope that renew europe’s concrete proposals will also be taken on board. but i have still two questions: does the commissioner agree with renew europe that the eu must be able to step in when the member states at external borders cannot or will not deliver? because that’s what we saw in the past. and how will the commission address unwanted secondary movement of asylum seekers within the eu?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, if we talk about common external borders we also talk about common responsibility, not only for controlling who is coming in, but also how we treat people – if they get access to an asylum procedure, if they are treated with dignity and if the procedures are followed. however, we know that at many borders the rules are not always complied with. push—backs are widespread in europe. we know that from reports and judgments, and even tomorrow the strasbourg court will come up with a decision on spain. push-backs can also go hand in hand with brutal violence and causing traumas to people, and this is especially the case at the croatian borders, according to numerous reports and testimonies. during our working visit last weekend, we were shocked by the fact that all actors involved acknowledged this widespread violence and push-backs, but that the government of croatia still denies this, and this discrepancy exactly shows that the violence will not stop if the eu continues to shy away and react indifferently. we can only stick to our rules and values if we care about violations at the borders and if we take steps to ensure compliance. i would therefore urge the commission to investigate thoroughly the allegations and complaints, and that investigation also needs to be part of the schengen evaluation. the commission informed us that it had financed the monitoring mechanism in croatia and that this would lead to improvement, but we learned that this money is not spent on monitoring but on border control, and that no monitoring body enters the green area where the push-backs take place. so how seriously does the commission take these allegations on push-backs? is it only interested in a smooth schengen accession or also in banning human rights violations at the border? so i would like to hear from the commissioner what steps he’s going to take instead of monitoring but also ensuring... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the insightful analysis you have carried out on european agriculture in the context of the two new strategies: the green deal and the field-to-table strategy. there is no doubt that both will result in new obligations and requirements for farmers and probably production constraints, especially for industrial agriculture. the question that is particularly relevant is: how do we finance all this? the previous european commission presented a draft budget in may 2018 which reduced the cap by 17%, which seems simply unacceptable in the light of the new challenges facing european agriculture. moreover, the national strategic plans drawn up by the member states have already signalled the need to limit the production of mainly livestock in the most industrialized farms of western europe, which has led to violent protests by farmers and the taking of tens of thousands of tractors to the streets of cities. in this context, the budgetary negotiations for the years 2021 to 2027 must include additional cap funding to be allocated to all member states to finance these two new strategies and to align direct payments to the union average in the countries of central and eastern europe.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. - mr president, commissioner, european agricultural policy subsidizes large industrial farmers, confines animals to mega-stalls, forces farmers to grow at an unhealthy, unsustainable and unsustainable scale, causes enormous environmental pollution through mega-subsidies to the livestock industry, sends hundreds of small-scale farmers to the brink of ruin every day, drags millions of animals around the world in appalling conditions and contributes to a huge loss of biodiversity. it's a screwed up system. farmers must be paid a fair price for a fair product. fair to animals, fair to the environment and fair to the climate. that is not what you do with free trade agreements like mercosur, ceta and ttip, which open up the frontiers to cheap, animal-friendly and environmentally unfriendly agricultural products. we need to turn the rudder. that is why i believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, i hope this morning’s debate, commissioner, is a wake—up call to the commission and to this house that farmers are angry, frustrated, worried and under attack. they are one group of society that do not take well to this. the truth is that, in this issue of farm to fork, we do need farmers to be front and centre of it, not to be dragged kicking and screaming. commissioner, i hope you’ll deliver that message to your colleagues around the table. i hope you’ll include in this farm to fork strategy competition law, unfair trading practices, and how trade policy can impact negatively on european agriculture. i would just say that some of the language used, indeed by yourself and others in the chamber, can be very emotive: organic is wonderful, factory intensive is evil. i’d like you to be a little bit more careful about the language, because many of our family farms can be medium—sized or they can be large, but it doesn’t suggest, whether small, medium or large, that one is better than the other. what we should be trying to do is make sure that farmers have access to the best research, the best innovation, and the best technologies to allow them to deliver on the things we need them to do. and let’s not forget that farmers are already doing it. they’ve been up before we have. they’re out in their farms and in their fields doing things for nature. we need to help them do that, not restrict them in their efforts. my greatest fear of cap reform and this strategy is that we will bind them with more rules and give them less flexibility. commissioner, you have a huge responsibility on your shoulders to make sure that doesn’t happen. i hope your voice is loud. (applause)
madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with you that the farm to fork strategy must be an ambitious strategy capable of responding in a very clear way to the challenges of environmental sustainability, human health, climate change, animal welfare. and i am sure that the commissioner will also agree with me that this strategy must include respect for and recognition of agricultural activity, of our farmers, of rural communities. the question is, how does that respect come about? in other words, the response to the new challenges cannot be achieved without the efforts of farmers, and this means that they must be supported in a solidarity-based, cohesive and fair manner. the vitality of our rural communities depends on the economic and social sustainability worthy of our farmers. and so what i ask you again, commissioner, and i hope this time to get a clearer answer, is how do you intend to articulate your vision for a long-term strategy for rural community development with the farm to fork strategy? in other words, how do you think that in practice can we ensure that the farm to fork strategy is designed and implemented in a way that addresses the real needs of the rural world?
the commission has already done so. we are seeing politics being done on the streets again. people are demonstrating for more climate and nature protection. that is good and will be heard here and considered with much applause. but when thousands of farmers demonstrate, taking to the streets because of excessive bureaucracy, lack of appreciation and great fears of survival, this is hardly noticed here in brussels. the whole situation is being fuelled by our vice-president timmermans, who is here making statements about drastically reducing livestock farming. i wonder how the 40% of green land we have in europe is actually managed and who is going to look after it. of course, we all know that we have to be more sustainable, that we have to do more for the environment. agriculture is changing. this can only be done together, and that is why the farm-to-fork strategy must not lead to any more burdens for agriculture and must be predictable for farmers. i ask you not to allow the green deal and the farm-to-fork strategy to delay the common agricultural policy. we're not going to launch until 2023. the package of legislation is in place and we can incorporate elements into eco-schemes and also protect the environment. i do not want the saying to apply, commissioner: 'if the farmer is ruined, your food will be imported'. it is much more than that: it is a question of the survival interests of rural areas and farming families.
madam president, the von der leyen commission announced its intention to set up a sustainable agriculture and food model that respects the environment and consumers, which it presented in the form of the slogan 'farm to fork'. i am asked today what i think about it. the problem is that we do not yet have a specific document detailing this project. the green pact's guidance document contains a brief presentation of no more than one and a half pages. so as things stand, 'from the farm to the fork' is, in my view, a hollow slogan. in order to be constructive, draw the commission's attention to the need to harmonise its future proposals with the new common agricultural policy, which is being finalised. on the content of the project, it will not be enough to announce vague measures such as, i quote, 'the significant reduction in the use of pesticides'; we will also have to find real solutions to real problems. firstly, we must guarantee our food sovereignty instead of sacrificing our agriculture on the altar of global free trade. secondly, developing short circuits to break the oligopoly of the central purchasing bodies of the large retailers. thirdly, to make it easier for farmers to do their jobs by simplifying the rules and red tape that has become burdensome. it is time to stop talking about slogans and finally to act, because farmers and consumers are waiting for us.
i have to say, madam president, mr commissioner, you said an important phrase at the beginning of your speech: 'agriculture must not become an industrial sector'. yes, that is quite right, but then we must also have a different agricultural policy, because at the moment the big players are the ones who benefit from the payments. if we continue to distribute payments in this way, 70%, without conditions, just on the basis of area, we are not making a real environmental policy. if you are serious about the green deal and farm to fork strategies, i am curious to see how you intend to incorporate them into this common agricultural policy. so far it 's been like this: a conservative majority actually wants things to continue as they are, and a little greening around. that cannot work, and colleagues, it is about farmers, yes, but we have a massive problem with biodiversity loss. we can't discuss this. we are using too many pesticides and the court of auditors has just said that we are pursuing a disastrous policy on pesticides. we need to get off the big fertilizer piles, or we'll never get the species dying under control. and we must of course - and i agree with many - also consider the impact of our agricultural policy on other countries in the green deal. i therefore say that if this mercosur agreement is adopted in this way and we continue to import so much soya, then this too will be a disaster for the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals. and i say this too: we must finally start to pursue a different animal welfare policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
the challenges facing agriculture are immense: to ensure sufficient food of high quality, for the landscape and biodiversity, and to do so with the lowest possible emissions. all of this requires modern agriculture that uses the latest insights, varieties and techniques. fortunately, a lot is already happening in that area. let us encourage and give room to these new developments rather than frustrate them. the biggest pitfall of the farm to fork strategy is to seek it again in a pile of regulations, in the ill-considered banning of plant protection products for example, when there are no alternatives yet. i therefore call on the commission to come up with good plans to reward the sector for its efforts and not to deprive it of the resources needed for good management. i would like to say to the commissioner: assess farms not on the basis of the number of animals per farm but on the basis of their environmental performance per unit of product. this could lead to some very surprising new insights. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the question of the blue card. president. - i would ask mr ruissen whether he has also considered reducing food waste, since the total value of food waste exceeds the european budget every year. if we focus on that, we don't have to give subsidies anymore.
blue card reply. mr president, that is certainly a very important issue which we must also work on. it is very important to prevent food waste at the various links in the chain. i think we should also take that into account. that does not mean - i disagree with you on that - that subsidies are not necessary. for the time being, we just need those subsidies to help the sector make that turnaround.
mr president, we must now take the bull by the horns. a farm to fork strategy or a farmer to fork strategy without reform of our agricultural policy is like putting the cart before the horse. the farmers, who work hard every day to make an honest product for us, who take good care of their animals and are responsible in their use of land and water, have little to gain from this policy. the only thing this policy has in common is that in almost every member state 80% of the subsidy goes to the 20 richest. if we make this a top 100 or a top 200, it won't be one real farmer, but mostly multinationals and big land owners, companies that often turn over millions, sometimes billions. of course we welcome the idea of a farmer-to-farmer strategy, but without reform of agricultural policy we are abandoning farmers who manage their land and water well and we are continuing to fatten up polluting multinationals and wealthy landowners.
mr president, yesterday, the eu and turkey started evaluating the 2016 migration deal and talked about the way forward – finally, commissioner! many doubts have been raised over this deal, but let’s not forget that turkey has provided shelter to millions of refugees and migrants for the last few years. without this agreement, many would have come to the eu. however, that migrants are now being used to start dialogue, to bring pressure to bear, is unacceptable. we need to return safely the people stuck at the turkish-greek border, and help especially those in idlib, and also help to de-escalate the situation over there. moreover, we urgently need a comprehensive approach on migration. we need a full assessment at the external border of those likely to be allowed to stay and those who are not. we need also to have more sustainable partnerships with safe third countries. the eu presented the solution two months ago. when will the commission act?
mr president, at the greek-turkish border, we are facing a humanitarian crisis as a result of four years of member states shifting their responsibility towards refugees and failing to find a common solution. men, women and children are now stuck in a no-man’s land in horrific circumstances, refused access from both sides, treated with violence and even run the risk of being shot at. governments have failed to act. they declare that our borders are under threat, but what about our refugees who are stuck at the border and on the greek islands? isn’t that our common responsibility as well? if we are serious about a common european asylum policy then let’s act now. and that means that all member states should organise the relocation of asylum seekers, starting with the vulnerable ones, with local communities showing the way. at the same time, we need to ensure that the greek government fulfils its obligations. the commission has to clearly denounce the suspension of asylum requests, as it is a violation of eu law. commissioner, i urge you to use the financial and material support to enforce access to an asylum procedure, legal aid and all necessary services and to bring an end to the violence at the border. it’s our common and essential duty to guarantee that asylum seekers are not a victim of any political game.
in writing. european airports forecast a loss of 67 million passengers in the first quarter of 2020 due to the coronavirus crisis. however, so-called 'ghost flights' have to be flown without passengers because of the allocation of slots at airports (annually) and the corresponding obligation to fly 80% on this route. this obligation has catastrophic consequences for the environment and for airlines in the time of the corona crisis. we must prevent this in europe! a temporary exception should therefore be allowed to ensure that airlines no longer have to fly empty flights. the crisis will continue to affect airlines at least until the end of the summer season. that is why i support the proposal for a temporary derogation from the slots system until 24 october 2020.
president, the corona crisis is taking many lives and wrecking the economy in the european union. the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is an eu agency whose aim is to strengthen europe's defence against infectious diseases. as early as january 26, the ecdc issued the following stern warning: the potential impact of covid-19 outbreaks is high, further global spread is likely, and the impact of late detection of the virus in an eu country without the application of appropriate prevention will be high, and the risk will be very high. the ecdc has contacts with european commission staff at several levels and on a daily basis. yet, the prevention has gone horribly wrong: the failure to immediately close affected areas, to detect sick incoming travellers, and to take appropriate measures despite all warnings. the consequences are disastrous. i call on the commissioner responsible, stella kyriakides, to account for this failed policy. if she cannot do so, she should resign immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this time the european union has not been at a standstill for months and years in exhausting discussions: the commission has acted quickly to help member states spend all the money needed to defeat the virus. but now we must go one step further. with the european recovery plan financed by recovery bonds and new own resources we can send a clear message to the whole world. europe is there. europe wants to remain free and cohesive, united by its values of political freedom and a single social model. so if the plan comes too late, without the advance already in the next few months, if it is not able to move many hundreds of billions of pounds of lost funds to the countries that need it, then we would not only lose solidarity but we would also lose our common future, because no one, no one, can prosper if the common market collapses, if value chains are broken, if only some countries have the strength to flood their economies with state aid and others are left stranded. it is therefore time to act, because only together can we find a way without betraying the fundamental principles on which our union is founded.
mr president, europe is at a historic crossroads: either we solve the pandemic together or our institutions can, very dangerously, go down the path of irrelevance, and we have no right to throw overboard the european integration project that we have inherited from previous generations. it is not the time either to stir up the low passions in our various countries, drawing a europe of sin and another of virtue, especially when it is done by those who practice tax evasion every year. this parliament will speak out. this time, yes. we call for a recovery fund of at least two billion euros, most of which will be transferred, with no further burden on the member states' treasuries and with an own resources system that allows repayment of both principal and interest. this is the instrument we need. and i am very concerned about the words of the president of the commission today, who has not explained anything to us. i have a feeling they're going to come back with a private resource mobilization plan, with magic multipliers that we know are going nowhere. commissioners, please be aware of the historic moment, listen and read what we are going to vote this week.
mr president, i cannot possibly agree with what most people are saying about the mff and the recovery plan. certainly, the corona crisis calls for solidarity. we will therefore have to use the cohesion funds differently and more precisely. but what is now being proposed goes far beyond that. a huge increase in the budget, new european taxes, public debts that the eu is going to take over from the member states. that is one big move towards a transfer union, where the distribution of the benefits and burdens among the member states is completely out of balance. the euro has meanwhile deprived us of the most important instrument for promoting economic recovery, namely the devaluation of the national currency. in some situations it is probably even better to return to one's own national currency, but then there must be road maps for that. i therefore call on the commission to look at this and to consider it. i think that is a more sensible approach than the proposals on the table.
madam president, yes, in the midst of this unprecedented health crisis no one is left untouched. people are falling ill, losing loved ones, seeing their businesses suffer and losing their jobs. it’s cause for people to reflect, to question what is really important and what should our priorities be. in the same way, we should re-evaluate the european budget, facing this crisis and knowing we still have other challenges to address. people look to us for a unified response, to invest money wisely, be accountable and not to pass the burden to the new, future generations. to achieve this, we need to prioritise what is important. we should ask ourselves: how can we refocus and reform our economies to come out of this crisis stronger but together? just like our citizens are trying to adapt in this crisis, we need to adapt so we can recover and build a renewed resilience.
madam president, george floyd, breonna taylor, rayshard brooks, mitch henriquez, adama traoré: many have fallen victim and many will follow if we do not act. i stand with everyone who is protesting against police violence, systematic injustices, discrimination and institutional racism. people demand action from our own institutions and our own member states. haven’t we learned from history? we hear that we need to embrace progress, but if my ancestors would see society now, would they see real equality and true respect for human dignity? ‘united in diversity’ is what we say in the eu, so let’s walk the talk. we need a fundamental change in our institutions so that they represent all of europe’s citizens. a new generation of europeans wants a seat at the table. they will show up, they will be loud, and they will break through. black lives matter. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, president trump’s alleged interest in buying the german biotech company curevac was an eye—opener. i welcome the initiatives taken by the spanish and german governments to better screen foreign direct investment and create the possibility to veto hostile foreign takeover bids on health care companies. the further steps taken by the commission are also a good step in the right direction. the health and pharmaceutical sector is crucial for the public health of europeans. we must put public health before shareholder profits and that’s why we need an increase in public funding with clear guidelines. we need a change in the research and development model for pharmaceuticals, based on open science and cost transparency. changing the pharmaceutical sector for the benefit of everyone will be a lot harder if european pharmaceutical companies fall into foreign hands. that’s why this sector in particular needs to be protected from hostile foreign takeovers, especially the ones that come from a very nationalistic interest.
the next few years, mr president, will determine how we as europe face the future. and we're not turning our backs on the rest of the world. a helping hand is still important, but we need to set clear rules to serve our own interests. stop being naive! anyone who wants to operate in our market must abide by the rules and those rules must serve european interests. a u.s. government that's here looking for a coronavirus drug for americans only doesn't serve our interests. chinese state-owned companies looking for strategic bargains here, whether it's ports, high-tech companies or orders for electric buses, they don't serve our interests. in order to serve our interests, we must ensure that our rules, standards and values also apply in our market. this is how we protect our place in the world and how we ensure that the jobs of the future are also preserved here in europe. i therefore call on the commission: put your plans for today into action quickly!
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, at the start of its mandate, the european commission announced its geopolitical ambition. europe was to become a global player. the coronavirus is putting this ambition to the test. in the last few months, the virus has forced our world to become smaller, keeping us locked down in our houses. and yet, this virus has become a global challenge reaching all corners of the world. it has shown us how connected and interdependent we have become. however, it seems it is idealistic to think we can globally unite to face this crisis. it is disheartening to see examples where countries have attempted to use covid-19 to divide europe and even to act against our interests through so-called corona diplomacy, disinformation campaigns, and with the escalation of tensions in, for example, libya and at the chinese-indian border. we have to realise that the world keeps turning fast. it is vital europe starts acting in a more assertive way to face the challenges ahead with a clear and unified voice in the global arena. this is the moment for the commission to live up to its geopolitical ambition, leading the search for answers on finding the origins of the virus, leading the global community in the search for a vaccine that will need to be made available to all people and countries, and leading the way to protect european interests, together with our liberal democratic allies in the world. in the absence of global leadership by the united states, the european union has to fill this void. therefore, i call on everyone here present to embrace this global opportunity and responsibility. the european union can make a difference if it decides to take its seat at the table on the world stage with renewed determination.
on behalf of the ppe group i wonder, mr president, what we are doing here, or whether this parliament has nostradamus' gifts, because we are advancing debates on an issue, in the case of israel, which has not yet happened. i don't know why we're here today debating the issue of israel. i mean, frankly, of course, that we are here convened by the ultra-left, the communists. i would like to thank the very reasonable people on the european left, in the socialist party and the greens, who yesterday were able to distinguish, on the subject of aviation, the political issues from the practical issues for this european union. reasonable people, like we are. why are we discussing this? because of the obsession... there's a comrade from the united left, idoia villanueva, who was talking about chile. chile has not been a dictatorship for years; however, iran, venezuela, cuba are dictatorships. i understand your obsession with israeli democracy. please change your tone, change your speech now. we are defending - as the high representative has done - that we are talking here about a matter that has not yet to be debated. we can debate later, when it happens, about the alleged annexation. we are not here to debate electoral declarations but concrete facts, as we will, high representative, in the near future.
i am a little confused because i have just seen the results of yesterday's vote on the air services agreement with israel. i am confused, in that i wonder whether our institution is still prepared to defend multilateralism. indeed, i hear many of my colleagues here protesting against certain administrations, saying that they are flouting multilateralism, and by the vote we took yesterday. 437 members of this house have not even considered whether or not we are respecting multilateralism and multilateral decisions. so my intervention here is not at all related to the position you are taking, mr borrell, because i think you have taken courageous decisions on the issue of the israeli-palestinian conflict, but i do wonder about our institution and about our ability not to have a double language and not to have a double standard. we talk about china, we talk about russia, but when it comes to the israeli-palestinian conflict, it seems that we are stripped of the ability to decide something that is ultimately decided on an international level. that is my confusion, mr borrell, i am sorry, but i think that the question is for us as a parliamentary assembly.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the annexation of the palestinian territories announced by israel is clearly a serious violation of international law. and, mr. lopez, we want to discuss it now, because we don't want it to happen. we want to avoid a breach of international law. i know that you may not be very interested in protecting international standards, but a majority of this house, and a majority of the countries of the european union, are interested in protecting international law. that is why i think it is a mistake that yesterday's vote on the aviation agreement with israel was not postponed, because if we let this go without any consequences, what message are we sending? what kind of defence of multilateralism are we expressing as the european union? and, also, i think it's a very important moment. we were now talking about the need for the weight and voice of the european union to be strengthened in the face of the withdrawal of the united states. if there is one scenario in which the voice of the european union must be strong now, it is in the face of the serious consequences that israel's decision will have in the middle east. and so i want to congratulate the european diplomacy for making such strong statements saying that such a step forward will not go unanswered. that there will be a reaction. because i think, obviously, that now is the time to multiply diplomatic efforts at all levels to prevent that from happening, but if it does happen, israel must also know that this is not going to happen without consequences and that the very intense relationship we have with israel is going to have to be obviously revised. and finally, i think we must also redouble our efforts and support action within the framework of the united nations security council so that when this decision is taken - and it seems that this will start to happen from 1 july - this question will also be dealt with at the united nations.
president. - mr barnier, once again, the arrows are being aimed unilaterally at israel by a number of parties, while it is far from clear what the plans of the new israeli government are. the situation is also much more complex than some of my colleagues are suggesting. we must not forget that these are areas which were then part of the mandate palestine - intended for the establishment of a national jewish home - which were subsequently occupied for many years by jordan and which came under israeli military control in a defensive war in 1967. and to this day, they still are. that is why the grand words about annexation and violation of international law are highly questionable. the eu is making the mistake of taking sides, again and again. if we really want to play a role in the solution of the palestinian-israeli conflict, we must abandon this unilateralism as soon as possible. this conflict calls for mediators, not for insiders on the sidelines!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in march, member states had to take, all of a sudden, a lot of measures in order to combat the spread of the covid—19 virus. among a lot of other measures, they closed their borders. this reflex to protect citizens is completely understandable, but it does not fit in an area where we have freedom of movement, where we have fundamental rights and where we have the principle of non—discrimination. as a result of the closing of the borders, eu nationals couldn’t return to their homes, couldn’t visit their family and couldn’t go to their jobs if they were frontier workers. we call upon the member states, in new waves of viruses, to take real effective measures focusing more on health measures, and proportionate measures, and to make sure that they coordinate, especially in border regions. although the internal borders are largely open now, the external border is still closed, and there we still see asylum seekers having practical problems in getting access to protection and family members in reuniting with their families in the eu. we call upon the council and the commission to really combat these violations.
mr president, i would like to welcome chancellor merkel to the european parliament where we have high expectations for this german presidency. renew europe wants to underline the importance of reaching an agreement on the eu recovery package and mff in the midst of this unprecedented crisis. however, we do not just need recovery: we need smart recovery. europe has to show the ambition to come out of this crisis stronger. this is the time to revive our economies in a sustainable, digital and green way, but it’s also the time to strengthen our democracies. renew europe insists on strengthening the rule of law of conditionality. it’s of vital importance and i hope the chancellor agrees with me. and if so, i will be keen to hear how the german presidency will also deliver on this topic. and we have of course more challenges on the horizon. we need progress on the migration pact, to avoid a hard brexit and to build a stronger eu in a turbulent world. let me finish by saying that renew wishes to extend its hand to you, to work together on these important challenges. ms merkel, let me look you in the eye eine frage: möchten sie mit uns europa erneuern?
we are stuck in a system in which the profits of the shareholders of large pharmaceutical multinationals are put before the interests of affordable and accessible medicines. while we are talking about one of the most profitable industries in the world, the european commission is proud to be organising a benefit concert for the pharmaceutical industry, to which it has also donated €5 billion of public money. the commission really needs to start to realise that the pharmaceutical industry is not a charity. if big pharma really cared about public health, they could invest their own skyrocketing profits in a coronavirus vaccine. this system needs to change, and the new plans for pharma give us a chance to turn the tide. create a solidarity system, promote better cooperation between countries in the procurement of medicines and require that drug manufacturers who receive public money be transparent about development costs. we must finally start to set hard standards for how much profit can be made on the backs of sick people.
president, this corona crisis teaches us that we need to work together more in the field of health. whether it's jointly purchasing and producing respirators and mouth masks or building strategic drug stocks, together we are stronger. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. it's the least we can do. yes, healthcare is primarily a member state responsibility, but we have seen that working together leads to protecting our people and that is why we welcome this new eu4health programme. another thing i am very concerned about is the health of our employees. we have seen during this pandemic that the european rules to protect workers from illness at work are not enough. newspapers are full of stories of factory workers who have been infected with coronavirus at work, often because they were not given protective gear or had to work too close together. it's a disgrace. the directive must therefore be revised as a matter of urgency, commissioner.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis has clearly demonstrated that we need a stronger european health policy to protect citizens from communicable diseases that move across borders, and more eu competence in the field of health. the member states alone cannot act effectively enough in a global policy area such as health, and that is why we need an eu infectious diseases regulation setting common criteria at eu level for the monitoring, prevention and regulation of infectious diseases. the new regulation would be science-based and would strengthen the resources and mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). the regulation should also set a minimum level of investment in health to ensure that member states' health systems are well prepared for future pandemics. i would like to thank the commission for the eu4health programme, which is an excellent step towards strengthening the common european health policy. we need stronger cooperation across a range of policy areas to better protect our citizens, to act more effectively, to keep pace with medical advances and to improve the health of our citizens. this means reference centres for all diseases, the development of digital health, including through the adoption of a common european health register, and the adoption of a wide-ranging digitalisation approach that ensures accessibility for all user groups. we need more effective action to prevent antibiotic resistance and a common european manufacturing of effective medicines. patients' rights should be strengthened by a specific directive guaranteeing, among other things, access to care, the right to effective treatment and medication, the right to rehabilitation and support, and the right to a second opinion and treatment in another member state. it is also important that the eu actively engages in strengthening the resources and capacity of the who.
on 1 july, following the recommendation of the advisory committee on the conduct of members, i decided to impose a sanction on mr jan zahradil for failure to comply with the reporting obligations laid down in articles 3 (3) and 4 (2) of the code of conduct, which may have given rise to a conflict of interest. the penalty shall be a fine. the decision was notified to the applicant on 7 july. under rule 177 of the rules of procedure, a member has two weeks from notification of the sanction to lodge an internal appeal against that decision with the bureau of parliament.
we now move on to the first round of voting today. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the first round of voting will be open from 9.15 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. the voting will be conducted in the same way as yesterday. all votes will be by roll-call and members will be able to verify their votes and the results of the votes by consulting the document which will be published on the plenary website. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, only voting statements of a maximum length of 400 words will be accepted. i call the first round of voting open. you have until 10.30 to vote and the results will be announced at 14.15.
ladies and gentlemen, may i have your attention? i wanted to make a statement. as you know, in hong kong last week the new national security law came into force. the situation is becoming more and more dramatic: every day that passes brings news of more imprisonments, arrests, violence, no more freedom of assembly or speech, in libraries and schools even books have been taken away. these are extremely worrying developments, which concern us. i admire and we all admire the courage and determination of the people of hong kong, many of whom are risking their personal freedom in defense of the maintenance of a democratic, free and open society. what was once a democratic reality, where the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and a high degree of autonomy were part of everyday life, is now in danger of being mortified. we must show solidarity as parliamentarians, we must take a stand against the erosion of freedom and the growing authoritarianism we are witnessing. i believe i share the sentiments of all my colleagues in calling on the competent authorities to respect international commitments and fundamental freedoms. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, since we do not have a lot of time, let’s go directly to the matters on the report on human rights and democracy in the world 2019. one important subject that the report highlights is the link between human rights and the environment. i took part in december in the 21st eu-ngo human rights forum, and i was struck by the testimonies of human rights defenders from across the world. in 2018, 77% of human rights defenders killed worldwide were working on environmental issues. these are very sensitive issues and economically very important. the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples against, among others, land-grabbing is of central concern. we must strengthen our efforts in this regard. the report equally highlights the link between the digital transformation of our societies and human rights and democracy. new technologies bring opportunities to promote human rights and democracy but also generate uncertainty and challenges. i therefore welcome the pioneering debate of the european parliament on the need to regulate ethical aspects of artificial intelligence. this year will mark the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration on gender equality. unfortunately, according to un statistics on women, a third of women around the world continue to suffer from some kind of violence in their lives. despite the fact that we rely so heavily on women to make up the much-needed workforce of carers, teachers and nurses, women are generally experiencing the biggest socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. there is also some good news and progress in human rights policy and democracy. for example, let’s highlight the decision by chad to abolish the death penalty; the decision by sierra leone to overturn the ban on pregnant girls attending school; sri lanka brought child labour down to 1%, through the pioneering ‘child labour free zones’, concretely, more than 60 000 fewer children in child labour compared to 10 years ago. slowly but firmly, we are advancing in this field. some societies in tunisia, sri lanka and gambia made democratic improvements and, unhappily, autocracy has expanded in 2019. resistance against dictators has also been growing. i would like to say more things about this report, but i have to turn – according to the agenda – to the second item that you have titled: ‘stability and security in the mediterranean and the negative role of turkey’. that is how you titled the second point in the agenda. i have just returned from intensive discussions in turkey and malta. in the previous week, i visited greece and cyprus to demonstrate the european union’s solidarity. it is clear that the stability and security in the mediterranean requires our collective engagement. years of conflict in libya and in syria have been impacting this region, directly affecting our interests and security in terms of uncontrolled migration, terrorism or political instability from the sahel to the broader middle east. turkey is also affected by this situation and is active in conflicts both in syria and in libya. in fact it is one of the most important actors in both conflicts. we have had important discrepancies regarding turkey’s action in north-west and north-east syria. last october, the council firmly condemned turkey’s military operation in north-east syria, yet we must also acknowledge where our interests coincide. turkey has been showing solidarity and generosity towards more than 3.5 million syrian refugees and has supplied cross-border humanitarian assistance to those displaced by the recent brutal fighting in idlib. by the way, i have to regret strongly the decision of the security council not to continue opening the border between turkey and idlib in order to bring humanitarian assistance. in libya, we need to work better together to launch a real political process. i remembered it also yesterday in my intervention in front of the security council of the un, stressing the importance of the berlin process and our commitment to implement the un arms embargo through our means (inaudible). with operation irini we will continue to monitor closely suspect trafficking, regardless of provenance or destination. in the eastern mediterranean, turkey has been showing a worrying assertiveness, with an increased number of flights over greek islands in the aegean sea, drilling operations in the cypriot exclusive economic zone and signature of the maritime memorandum of understanding with libya, which we do not recognise here in the european union. on these issues, we have been sending clear messages to turkey. we are determined to protect the principles, values, borders and sovereign rights of the member states, and we will also continue working for a political solution in syria and libya. turkey is an important partner, a candidate country and a nato ally. the current negative trend in our relations – as i told our turkish colleagues, the foreign affairs minister and the defence minister a couple of days ago in ankara – needs to be stopped and reversed. the dynamics of retaliation do not make the mediterranean a more secure and stable zone. this will only be achieved through dialogue and negotiations where discrepancies exist, and they do. this is what i have been discussing with turkish colleagues on my last trip, stressing that we have many common interests on which to build. on monday, with the foreign affairs ministers, we will examine a possible way forward. the third and last issue is belarus. let me start right out with the latest developments. i reassure you that we pay very close attention to the situation on the ground in the context of the 9 august presidential elections. we are concerned about the restrictions on freedom of assembly and speech, including the reported detention of peaceful protesters, bloggers and journalists. the harassment and persecution of the leading opposition candidates has to stop. fundamental freedoms have to be respected, and each candidate and voter must be able to exercise their civil and political rights. we expect to be invited by belarus as soon as possible to observe the upcoming presidential elections. we have reacted to recent developments, calling for the immediate and unconditional release of all arbitrarily-detained persons. we will follow closely these elections in order to reinforce the sovereignty, independence and freedom of belarus, which is the only way to pave the future of prosperity for its citizens. belarus has demonstrated an active participation in the eastern partnership. we have achieved tangible benefits for the belarusian citizens, in particular the visa facilitation agreement, which entered into force on 1 july. the eu is belarus’s second-largest trade partner, and close economic cooperation is of mutual interest. due to our geographic proximity, our ongoing dialogue, among others, on how to improve standards on environment and climate change is essential for all europeans. in the absence of a legally-binding framework agreement, the conclusions of the eu-belarus partnership priorities remains an important objective, and i believe that having an agreed set of political priorities, including on human rights and nuclear safety, would provide us with more transparency and accountability in our relations. we should remain open to further development of our relations with belarus and continue supporting belarus’s sovereignty and independence. however, this development can only be based on positive steps in the area of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. this brings me back to my initial words. the 9 august presidential elections will be very important in charting our way forward and in defining our relations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to refer to turkey in today's debate. we have a lot in common with turkey. we have common economic interests, we have a common history, turkey's membership of nato, the solidarity that exists, many turkish people living in europe and many europeans in turkey - and of course turkey's commitment to the refugee question. you gotta remember, there's a lot of partnership. but something is changing - obviously - and that is why the epp group has requested today's debate, because we are concerned, for example, about the continuing attacks by the turkish military on the greek border, the illegal drilling, the activities now in libya, where it has itself come into conflict with french warships, and of course also at home: the freedom of the media, civil society is under pressure, and on top of that the abuse of migrants at the external border with the attacks there. turkey is moving far away from the values and ideas of the european union, and for that i would first of all like to say 'thank you' to nikos anastasiadis and kyriakos mitsotakis, who are jointly responsible for us europeans at the external border, the turkish border. this was particularly evident in february when the attacks by the illegal immigration attempts, and the message is: "we will not be blackmailed by erdoğan". that's the message behind it. we must make it clear that the problems in the region are not greek-turkish, not cypriot-turkish problems, but they are eu-turkish problems. we cannot leave the two states alone there. the message we have for president erdoğan is that the european union is ready for partnership, is also ready to return to partnership, but we need a partner who will join us. the european union is not naive. we also have the means to respond, and the customs union, which is of vital economic importance for turkey, is one of those tools. i'd like to see honesty in relationships, too. the accession talks we are having with turkey were a mistake. it has led to too much disappointment on the turkish side and there is no willingness in europe to welcome turkey in large areas. that is why we should close this chapter and open a new chapter of partnership. the accession talks should be concluded and we must come to a new partnership with turkey. we hope ankara is ready for this.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr high representative, the presentation of this report is important this year because it also sets out a roadmap for the strategy for democracy and human rights. there are positive aspects - you have mentioned them - but there are huge negative elements in this report. i would also like to point out that, in a positive way, climate change and biodiversity loss are recognised as a very important threat to human rights, and i think that opened a good path for us. but i would like to point out that 2019 stands out as a very bad year, because it has been a very good year for populism; a populism that advances, deteriorates democracies, makes them more fragile and, therefore, deteriorates human rights and freedoms. more and more, we are seeing the weakening of our democracies from within, using democratic institutions to generate autocratic regimes. and they do it - we see it, we are seeing it - attacking the judiciary, attacking the press, fundamental press freedom. that is why, mr. high representative, we democrats cannot allow the insult, harassment and persecution of the press to be naturalized under any circumstances. we can only fight it with firmness. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected and that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected. we also have, high representative, to enable and accelerate the implementation of the 2030 agenda, especially its objective 16. and finally, we have to work, of course, for more democratic societies, for greater democratic resilience, which includes promoting a rights-based approach to migration, addressing forced displacement and reducing the factors that produce irregular migration.
president. - mr borrell, the messages are still coming in on my iphone, almost daily. reports of discrimination, threats, violence and even attacks with deadly consequences. and that is simply because one is a christian. yesterday, another report about a woman in india, killed while she was gathering wood in the forest, probably by hindu extremists. she leaves behind four children, ages 6, 8, 12, and 17. the commission's initial intention not to renew the mandate of the eu's envoy for religious freedom raised a number of questions in the light of all these reports. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has now returned to this matter and has now sent the eu's religious freedom envoy back. unfortunately, such an envoy is sorely needed. it is very important that we provide this post with sufficient staff and budget. more than during the previous mandate, when the unit dealing with religious freedom was very, very small. i hope the commission can reassure me on this point too. freedom of religion is not high enough on the european agenda. there is a lot of work to be done in that regard. the european commission must exert pressure to conclude or renew trade agreements with countries where freedom of religion is lacking. trade is good, but faith is better and more important. it is also important that we keep each other on our toes here in the european parliament, and that we also keep the commission on its toes on this important subject.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for his speech. the title of this security debate gives the impression that we are dealing with one evil factor in the mediterranean that is responsible for all security threats. such a simple narrative is attractive but not very helpful, as it leads us nowhere. the situation near our borders is highly complex, and most worrying is the lack of influence that we have, both in syria and in libya, and this really should be reversed. but we will only gain more influence with a more regional and comprehensive approach. the people in libya are overrun by many states who are competing for their own interests and influence, and the citizens of libya really need our strong support for the establishment of a state where democracy, the rule of law and accountability prevail. security threats will remain as long as libya is a failed state. turkey is one state interfering for its own interests over there, but so are russia, france and italy, and others. compliance with the berlin process is of utmost importance, and it’s disappointing that even eu member states don’t always respect the agreement. so i ask the high representative which possibilities he sees for increasing the effectiveness and expanding the scope of operation irini, despite the blockage by russia in the security council. apart from that, we should invest more in regional stability, and this starts with the region closest to us: cyprus. we need to find a solution for the conflict that we have neglected for so long. but also in north africa, involving libya’s neighbouring countries would really contribute to a more sustainable solution. i agree with mr borrell that, despite turkey’s bad track record, we share common interests, and the neighbouring countries are key to us. we cannot simply remain in a deadlock and act as if we do not need to cooperate or narrow it down to cooperation on the eu—turkey statement. so i support his approach to rethink the strategy, but not only for security reasons – also to promote human rights.
president, minister roth, our european democracy is vulnerable. a number of oligarchs and populists in europe are gradually breaking down the rule of law, and they are also weakening the institutions in their countries which are responsible for overseeing the distribution of european subsidies. members of the committee on budgetary control know the tricks by now. it's not a coincidence, of course. these oligarchs and populists - i do not need to name them - do everything to ensure that european subsidies enrich their own clique, and it is so convenient when no one is watching. that is why such a rule of law mechanism is such an important proposal. we have a mechanism like this that allows us to impose sanctions when there are doubts about national control. i therefore call on the member states: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. whatever happens next week, stand up for european democracy and stand up for the rule of law. stand up for european taxpayers who never signed up for corruption.
in response to the consequences of covid-19, the european commission has proposed that the structural and investment funds be used, so far with the same limited resources as before, in some cases diverted from projects where they are certainly lacking. in its proposals for the financial framework, the commission has set out a path of continuing to reduce the weight of cohesion policy in the overall budget. in this way, the asymmetrical impacts of the integration of the single market and of the common policies of the single currency will surely be accentuated and, instead of the promised convergence, what reality will bring us, as it is bringing us, is more divergence between countries. the additional funds from the recovery fund referred to here, whether because of the small amounts involved or mainly because they constitute transfers for future payments, do not substantially change this reality and may even worsen it in the long term. what we need is more, not less, cohesion, more, not less, structural funds, more, not less, support for the productive sectors, employment, environmental protection. more, not less, flexibility is needed in the use of cohesion funds by the member states. we must increase, not reduce, european cofinancing, european cofinancing rates. it is necessary to permanently eliminate constraints such as the stability pact, at least by excluding from its application the expenditure associated with the mobilisation of cohesion funds. it is necessary to introduce a cohesion dimension in programmes with centralised management across all programmes, for example in science, environment and other areas, and to bring them into a shared management logic. commissioner, you have your ways. the european commission does not seem very interested in going through them, unfortunately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the data are still lacking, but experience tells us that an economic crisis such as the present one will increase the profound economic inequalities in our society. this is what happened with the crisis that started in 2008, and it doesn't matter whether the origin is the financial markets or a virus: the most vulnerable always get the worst of it. the objective of cohesion policies is economic and social convergence between the different regions of the union, but in a period of crisis this convergence comes to a halt. it is essential to adapt the rules of the structural funds to each economic context: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial contribution to the structural funds. yes to greater flexibility and simplification, yes to an emergency reserve, no to diverting these funds to other purposes, yes to excluding them from the stability pact. let us adapt cohesion policies to the current crisis situation in order to combat effectively the economic inequalities that threaten the health of our democracies.
mr. chairman, please! europe would be very different without a successful cohesion and agricultural policy. the difference would be even greater. the european countryside would be even less populated, without the much needed municipal and environmental infrastructure. the covid crisis has shown that living in a rural environment with clean air, forests nearby, a garden by the house can be of a higher quality than living on the tenth floor of a city of millions. in such an environment, it is easier to maintain health and a state of mind. the conditions for creating quality jobs are the infrastructure built, including high-quality broadband connections, which today are unfortunately only accessible to half of europe's rural population. broadband is made possible by modern jobs in agriculture, forestry, crafts, remote working, distance learning, online shopping. and that is why i believe that in the future period, when we have new funds, the european union will also use these billions to build and improve the european countryside, to strengthen the smart villages project and to build a resilient, digital and green european union.
mr president, this spring the tyre manufacturer apollo vredestein in the dutch town of enschede announced a mass layoff which resulted in the loss of 750 jobs. after 110 years, production is transferred to hungary, where vredestein opened a modern factory in 2017. two weeks ago it became clear that the european cohesion fund had been used to build the m3 motorway around that plant. if it wasn't for this highway, vredestein would never have moved. a disastrous method of using eu subsidies to lure companies away. what will happen when the 750 billion euro recovery fund is approved? the netherlands is expected to spend 31 billion euros, or 4 000 euros per household. hungary will receive eur 7.3 billion. does this mean that more jobs are being bought in the netherlands? the netherlands is constantly being asked to show solidarity within the eu. that means the "pin machine". but now the netherlands is once again financing its own demolition. who else in the eu is in solidarity with the netherlands?
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, anyone following the news knows there are mounting tensions in the eastern mediterranean. the situation has become so tense, that a tiny spark could have devastating consequences. the eu must prevent a conflict by being united, constructive, but also by being firm. threatening a fellow family member with war is not something renew europe takes lightly: we will not accept that! it is quite a strong response. on a positive note, renew europe suggested last week to the turkish foreign minister to withdraw its research vessel to turkish waters. this suggested act of goodwill appears to have been honoured: a positive step, one that we applaud! now we call for an end to the threats, the opening of further dialogue and finding a lasting and sustainable solution to this conflict, possibly via the icj in the hague. we need to de—escalate now. but let me be honest: it is very difficult to see turkey as an eu candidate member. we need a renewed future relationship with our vital neighbour turkey.
mr president, i would say to the president of the commission that i think we can all agree it has been a turbulent first year for this commission, and for us all. madam president, you and your team started this mandate with high ambitions. but then the world was faced with perhaps the biggest health crisis in our history. as covid—19 began to spread in europe, everything came to a halt. now that we have overcome the first shockwave of this pandemic, we have to pick up our momentum again. not just to overcome this health crisis and protecting and creating jobs, but also by moving forward on other priorities. take for example the awful scenes in camp moria last week, to which we have been referring. this is not the moment to look away, to kick the can that is called ‘migration policy’ down the road once more. this is the moment we have to decide. what is happening on lesbos is unacceptable and we have a european responsibility to put in place a sustainable migration policy, so that we can avoid unnecessary suffering and so that we can regain control of migration. i am glad to see the commission will present proposals next week. last year you said in this house: our greatest achievements have always come when we are bold. and my question will be: will you be bold now? secondly, the rule of law. how can we lecture other nations on respect for the rule of law, when the rule of law is no longer respected in part of our union? ‘rule of law can never be compromised.’ these are your words, and i share them. what will you do to ensure the eu remains a credible ambassador for rule of law in the world? will you stand with us on having a rule of law conditionality in our new budget? we have an obligation to our voters, to our citizens of the eu, to deal with these and other challenges: the green transition; but also the digital transition – they are equal to me, they go hand in hand – and our foreign policy response that needs to be stronger and bolder in order for the eu to become the geopolitical actor you yourself spoke of last year. we have to show courage to focus on these priorities and set the wheels in motion. madam president of the commission, this year is going to be a real test case for you and your team. i ask you: are you up for it? ready? with ‘renewed’ energy?
madam president, for years we have been debating incident after incident, whilst we should have been realising a renewed migration policy. our current immigration policy is not fit for purpose. recent fires in moria are another cynical reminder that we must do much better. it is time to act. despite the efforts of the current greek government to improve the situation on lesbos, we need a sustainable solution. we need a future-proof migration policy. renew europe already presented proposals in january. proper migration management is about being in control, and it is a shared european responsibility. as long as migrants find their way to the eu via irregular routes, we need a proper response. we owe that to these people, but also to our citizens. we need european reception centres at the eu external borders with adequate facilities. we need a first assessment at external borders to determine who is likely to get asylum and who is not. we need a joint effort to improve returns for those not eligible to stay and we need better and faster asylum procedures. unfortunately, the council is not joining us today in this important debate. my question would be, when will the german presidency start negotiations on the proposals that will be presented next week? there is no time to lose.
madam president. i wish to thank the commissioner for her statement. the lacking statement of the german presidency is unfortunately also a message. yesterday, president von der leyen emphasised the importance of our common values. tell the children in moria – exhausted after six months of confinement, lacking sufficient care and food, traumatised by the fire, sleeping on the street. tell them about our common values. share it with the refugee who said ‘we lost everything in syria. we came for protection and we found ourselves in life—threatening circumstances right here. take us out of this hell’. the strength and sincerity of our common values are best shown in the way we treat refugees, who rely on us. until now the eu has failed this test. so commissioner, and also the council – i hope they’re listening – please prove that these values also apply to refugees. i urge you, do not rebuild moria on the islands as this will end up in the same misery. ensure the right to asylum by acting firmly against the push—backs to turkey. take your responsibilities seriously and assure a real protective environment and procedure. evacuate them from the islands, distribute them among the member states and apply these harmful lessons to the new pact. we have no time to lose. (applause)
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that 13 000 human lives are damaged and traumatised, left without shelter, access to water, food and medical care. this has all happened on the doorstep of our union – the union that globally promotes human rights and is ready to act in cases of human rights violations. what about the violations of human rights within our union? it is time for serious self—reflection. i’m ashamed, as a member of the european parliament and as the daughter of a migrant who came to europe for a better future. how can we look at ourselves in the mirror? resolutions for humane migration policies have been on the table for years now, but several member states are walking away from that table. do you understand the fundamental principles of this union? your denial is putting lives in danger. madam commissioner, what are we going to do? because we are all accountable. our values, including the protection of human rights, are not negotiable. (applause)
madam president, let me start with a quotation:‘rape is not just a physical violent act perpetrated against one victim. it’s an assault on humanity’. these are the words of denis mukwege. dr mukwege has dedicated his life to the treatment of women who have become victims of rape and horrendous sexual violence. he has given new hope to tens of thousands of women, supporting them on the way back through medical treatment and psychological counsel, giving them the chance to get back on their own two feet by providing them with an education and job training. he needs our support to ensure his safety and that of his family and staff. women are amongst the most vulnerable in conflicts across the globe. using sexual violence as a weapon in a war is a terrible crime. denis mukwege is one of the big heroes of our time. he needs our support and he deserves it.
madam president, i welcome nobel peace prize winner dr mukwege’s call for protection and the resolution in support for this. we know that conflict has horrible consequences for the countries concerned, for the many women victimised. as dr mukwege correctly said, we need to recognise that sexual violence in conflict is not just a problem in his country. therefore, it is important that people like dr mukwege can continue their important work, work that not only helps the victims but also advocates for women’s rights. dr mukwege and his panzi hospital are an example of how activists who do the groundwork need and deserve our protection. a pandemic cannot be an excuse to look away. our support, especially during a crisis, is desperately needed. i call on our institutions, our parliament and the international community to ensure that people like dr mukwege are free and safe to continue their work.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am grateful to the members of the european parliament for raising this matter, and for giving me the opportunity to address it here. the european union greatly admires the courage and the tireless work of dr denis mukwege. his strong commitment to peace, justice and human rights in the east of the democratic republic of the congo (drc) has unfortunately exposed him to death threats. despite that, he continues to devote his life to defending and restoring the dignity of countless women, the victims of brutal acts of violence, and we must continue to support his work. we have publicly condemned the most recent threats made against him and we are pleased to note that the un has now decided to redeploy a unit for the safety of dr mukwege and the staff and patients of the panzi hospital. we remain extremely worried about almost daily attacks on the population in the east of the drc. this cannot become a forgotten crisis 10 years after the un mapping exercise report. we are calling upon the drc, supported by its international partners, in particular in the region and the united nations organisation stabilisation mission in the democratic republic of the congo (monusco), to put an end to the violence and the impunity. the congolese authorities should adopt and implement reforms to establish effective security institutions and an independent justice sector. those responsible should be brought before justice so that the rights and dignity of the victims can finally be recognised. the eu is taking concrete action in this direction through support programmes for justice, the strengthening of the mechanism for prosecuting and supporting victims, including survivors of sexual and gender-based violence, and is continuing its direct support to dr mukwege’s panzi hospital, which so far amounts to eur 19 million. we will never, never abandon the women and girls who had to go through the unspeakable pain of sexual violence, and stand ready to contribute to the support they need to rebuild their lives.
author. madam president, we cannot abandon mozambique, we cannot leave mozambique and the mozambicans in the dustbin of oblivion. there is a terrible humanitarian tragedy in northern mozambique, in the province of cabo delgado, where more than 1,500 people have been killed, hundreds of thousands have been displaced, and there is terrorism in the villages and towns of mozambique. many of the young women have been kidnapped or enslaved sexually, many of the young men have been forcibly recruited into militias and temporary armies. it's an offensive clearly inspired by islamic jihadism, extremism, with already proven links to daesh. this humanitarian tragedy, which is happening in one of the poorest countries in the world, which had already terrible development rates, which has been ravaged by climate change, cyclones caused by very serious climate change, this is a political and religious problem that adds to this tragic situation. and it is serious, very serious, and that is why i insist. the international community and the european union in particular have voted to forget the situation in mozambique. the pandemic doesn't excuse everything. it cannot be a veil over what is happening in northern mozambique. no one talks about mozambique, nor about the neighbouring countries, such as portugal or italy, which have special responsibilities in relation to mozambique, nor about these countries! this is a matter of the present. this is not just a problem for the suffering mozambicans who need humanitarian aid. it is also a regional problem because islamic jihadism is spreading to the surrounding countries, it has come from the sahel, it has come from the horn of africa, there are several outbreaks throughout africa that we are not paying attention to and that is why the support of the european union, the involvement of the african union, the involvement of the southern african development community, of southern africa is essential. we have to engage all these partners to save these people who are in despair and who, beyond despair, are totally forgotten and abandoned by the international community. the role of the catholic church is worth mentioning, and in particular that of the bishop of pemba, luíz lisboa, who has been the only international voice to echo the suffering of the christian and muslim populations, which have always lived together peacefully and have never had any radicalism in this region.
author: madam president, endemic poverty, economic greed, institutional fragility, natural disasters and terrorism under the guise of religious intolerance have created a context of humanitarian crisis in the province of cabo delgado. the known numbers of attacks and civilian casualties and the images circulating of the atrocities committed are shocking. the joint resolution we are debating explicitly, concisely but objectively, the reasons why we must act and act quickly. commissioner, we cannot use the excuse of complexity or the pandemic to abandon the people of cabo delgado. we must act in an articulate way on the root causes of the problem, but we must respond immediately to the humanitarian emergency we face. the multilateral dialogue between the european union and the government of mozambique, as well as with regional political economic organisations, needs to be deepened, also acting as a catalyst to encourage dialogue between national authorities and civil society. and yes, mr paulo rangel, the member states also have a role to play, and fortunately portugal, through its foreign minister, has played that role. let it serve as an example and also as a motivator for the work that needs to be done.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. first of all, he expresses his condolences to the families of the victims. that's hundreds of people, over a thousand people. it also expresses its sympathy for those who have been forced to flee their homes as a result of this islamic rebellion. it's good that we're talking about this today, it's a show of solidarity with these people. i also wanted to make it very clear - and this is the direction my political group was taking - that it is not only poverty and lack of prospects that are the source of terrorism, but also, and often, ideology. these are strictly ideological reasons, because sometimes even wealthy people resort to terrorism. it's good to see this in a broader context and it's good that we are showing solidarity with the people of mozambique, in cabo delgado, today.
author. madam president, the situation in mozambique has worsened considerably in recent years and the discovery of huge gas reserves, the largest in the world, has only aggravated the situation and increased levels of corruption. now, with the pandemic and as a result of natural disasters, there are 7.9 million people who need assistance. we are witnessing a huge humanitarian tragedy that we need to respond to. in cabo delgado, more than 1,500 people have died, and the country's wealth of natural resources has led multinational companies to compete like vultures for access to the region. that is the example of france's total, which continues with exploration plans as if nothing were happening, as if nothing were. what we need in this situation is, in fact, to denounce what is happening and to break the silence. condemning terrorist attacks and jihadism is fundamental, but it is not enough. we must denounce and stop the exploitation of natural resources. environmental rights must be taken into account and the link between all this and the economic and social context must be established. otherwise, we are covering up the sun with a sieve, but we are not really helping the people in mozambique.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in mozambique since 2010, cabo delgado has witnessed the discovery of substantial gas reserves off its coasts. this area is now home to africa’s largest liquefied natural gas, attracting enormous investment for eventual extraction. since 2017, this northern province has been rocketed by deadly attacks perpetrated by armed groups whose operations are becoming increasingly sophisticated. even before the discovery of the gas reserves and the attacks, cabo delgado was already nursing discontentment due to the high level of poverty and marginalisation by the central government. the bishop of pemba has received death threats for being outspoken on behalf of the poor in cabo delgado. he has called on the government to do more to protect the people against jihadist attacks linked to isis. with this resolution we also urge the government of mozambique to take effective and decisive action against the insurgencies of international terrorist groups. dear colleagues, the government of mozambique has a big responsibility, but unfortunately lacks the means. a coordinated response from the region and international efforts are urgently needed. this week we adopted the new and an effective european approach on fighting terrorism in the sahel and the horn of africa. building on these experiences we can offer our assistance to the people of mozambique.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, in 2005, under the auspices of the united nations, the heads of state and government agreed on the principle of the responsibility to protect. the analysis behind this statement was finalized in the document responsibility to protect that everyone knows. the main lessons of this declaration are that there is no security without development and that there is no development without security. the answer cannot therefore be purely humanitarian. it is certainly humanitarian, but we must also work on the longer term. the long-term solution to this crisis requires a strong state, capable of fulfilling its royal duties. it is in this context that i invite the commission to perhaps already clarify its view on the programming for mozambique in the next seven years. the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndci) which we adopted at first reading contains a whole range of instruments which can help to create this strong state and strengthen its governance. i agree with everything that has been said about the suffering of the country, and i also express my deep sympathy, but we must also work for the long term.
member of the commission. – madam president, last year when cyclones idai and kenneth struck, the eu used all available instruments to respond to those tragedies. today, northern mozambique faces another threat: an outbreak of armed violence with a dangerous regional dimension. i would first like to reiterate our solidarity with the people of mozambique. we have strong political and developmental relations with mozambique and we are ready to discuss options for assistance. i am also glad to inform you that the government and the eu have opened a policy dialogue, with a focus on humanitarian development and security issues in cabo delgado. in the april council conclusions, the eu emphasised that, regardless of the urgency, any response to the violence in the north must ensure full respect for human rights. the recent amnesty report is extremely shocking. all its allegations, including those concerning members of the mozambique armed defence forces and the police, must be investigated transparently and effectively, with full respect for the legal rights of both the victims and the accused. the eu advocates an integrated and coordinated approach to development, promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law. this encompasses also freedom of the media and civil society, and i recall here the memory of the activist and electoral observer, anastácio matavele. let me also underline our commitment to following african processes, working with the african union peace and security architecture and especially sadc. i think this is the way to ensure the regional drivers and impacts of this crisis are properly addressed.
in writing. there are no words to condemn the abominable attack on an isolated woman by armed men - an atrocity about which we must await the conclusions of the investigation. let us not hide the harshness of mozambique's fight against the islamic state group, al-shabaab, which has been carrying out a bloodbath in cabo delgado since 2017. this is a struggle that the country is fighting alone, since the southern african development community has so far been conspicuous by its absence. the usual pattern of massacres, especially against christians whose buildings have recently been burned to the ground and some of their faithful who refused to renounce their faith, were cowardly murdered. in this respect, this tragic situation is in line with similar tragedies in nigeria and burkina faso. so while complex geopolitical debates remain relevant, we must not, through a false politically correct modesty, avoid denouncing a quasi-genocide, which from sub-saharan africa to the middle east, decimates christians in general silence.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
it is with deep regret that we have witnessed in recent days the devastating floods which have struck the south-east of france and the north-west of italy: several people have died, many are still missing. we pay tribute to the victims and, of course, we extend our condolences to the families and people affected. we express our full solidarity and respect for the work of the civil protection rescue teams, who continue to assist the victims, search for the missing and help the communities that have been so affected in these days.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 1 october 2020. the following amendments were tabled: i have received three requests for the urgency procedure under rule 163 of the rules of procedure to add the following legislative documents to be adopted during this part-session: implementation of railway safety and interoperability rules in the channel tunnel; decision authorising france to conclude an international agreement on the channel tunnel; organic production: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the these requests will be voted on today in the first round of voting. under the rules of procedure, only the authors of the petitions and a speaker opposing them, as well as the chairmen or rapporteurs of the committees responsible, may be heard. does anyone in the house wish to comment on one of the requests for urgent procedure? then there's no one here. as regards two council positions on markets in financial instruments and on european providers of crowdfunding services for businesses, i would inform the house that no proposals to reject the council positions have been tabled, nor have amendments been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the rules of procedure. the proposed acts are therefore deemed to be approved. finally, the votes were distributed in several rounds. this distribution could be subject to change depending on the number of amendments and the number of voting requests for separate and distinct parts. information on the distribution of votes is available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. finally, following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following amendment to the final draft agenda: wednesdaythe title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'the resumption of hostilities between armenia and azerbaijan over the nagorno-karabakh enclave' is hereby amended. "the resumption of hostilities between armenia and azerbaijan in connection with the nagorno-karabakh conflict". are there any objections? the amendment is hereby approved.
mr limmer, as you know, the procedure was approved by the committee. as regards the documents presented in the chamber, interpretation is available to all members of all nationalities.
i agree with mrs limmer. it's important that we follow the procedures and there are clear rules about translations. the rules exist because we work in a multilingual environment and because everyone must be able to obtain correct information. there was no rush in the envi vote and therefore there is no possibility of an exception. it is already difficult for people at home to follow what is happening here in brussels. so it is extremely important that we respect the use of language.
madam president, trying to solve the health crisis and the economic crisis without ensuring that the rule of law is respected is like repairing the roof of a building with sagging floors. we can no longer stay silent to the numerous rule of law violations in the eu, and we need an effective instrument and the political courage to bring an end to impunity. the eu budget will grow unprecedentedly high. we must use this momentum not only because of the financial interests of the eu, but also because it creates the opportunity to use the interest of autocrats like orbán in eu money. but the council position gives the impression that member states don’t want an effective instrument. what message do they send to the citizens under threat? we are one union but you need to fight for your own rights? that is really justifying actually the distrust that many citizens already have in the eu. i call on you: let us make sure that this will not happen. we need conditionality on all aspects of the rule-of-law, not only corruption and fraud. we need to stay united as a parliament and don’t let the member states leave us with empty hands. after all, we’re not here to defeat our governments, but... (the president cut the speaker off)
the glass ceiling exists, or perhaps we should say: the concrete ceiling is there. the 'women on board' directive has been stalled for years because it is stuck in the council. member states, including my own, the netherlands, continue to refuse to vote for this directive. the subsidiarity principle is always an easy excuse, but member states and businesses have a lot of room to make this directive a success in their own way. the 40% criterion in the 'women on board' directive is not much in demand. what's wrong with a balanced distribution of responsibilities between men and women? whereas for men it's a given, for women we have to quantify it in numbers. we say to women: you're good, but no more than 33%. we want equal opportunities, including at the boards' tables. and for those member states which do not want to cooperate, make the arrangements. the numbers don't lie, and you're not there yet. the coronavirus crisis has shown how indispensable women's leadership and commitment is on the front lines as well as in top positions. it has become clearer than ever that we are needed at the table, but not appointed to the seat at that table. young women growing up in europe today need role models, role models who show them that they too can reach the top. but they also have to trust that there are enough women leaders to secure their future. the systematic exclusion of women from top positions in companies that affect our future on a daily basis is downright stupid. in the european union we make it an important point of reference: equality between men and women. but the member states are afraid: i am afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner, afraid of being a political prisoner. all that on the backs of women. improving the economic position of women and increasing women's influence can be achieved by agreeing to the 'women on board' directive. be part of the solution and vote for the directive.
mr president, seven years of inaction have given us more evidence of what we essentially already knew, which is that self—regulation and laissez—faire ultimately fail to bring more diversity to our boardrooms. today the four countries in the eu with a binding quota have 23.6 percentage points more women on non—executive boards than those 11 with no rules whatsoever. not only is that at odds with gender equality, a core principle of the eu of course, it’s also a waste of talent, and not only is it a waste of talent, it’s a bad business case because we know that diverse companies do better. parliament understood this seven years ago, the commission understands this and the majority of member states today understand this. there are of course a few sad exceptions and my country and yours, mr roth, are amongst them. but i urge you again – and you said it very well – i urge the german presidency, and not germany, to take leadership here at last and to fulfil its political, its moral and its institutional duty to us all.
madam president, it was a good step of the european council to finally break its deadlock and agree on sanctions for 40 individuals of the lukashenko regime, responsible for manipulating the elections and oppressing its citizens. but why not include the person most responsible, mr lukashenko himself? this cannot be explained to the belarusian people. how long do we accept his regime violently cracking down on peaceful protests, and him flirting with putin, before the council realises that we are long past a political solution with mr lukashenko? and this is why calling for an inclusive national dialogue is important, but not enough. if we want to ensure new and fair elections, much more pressure from the eu is necessary, and freedom of speech, association and media is vital to preserve democratic rights in belarus. apart from an economic plan, we call for substantial support of civil society and the independent media. this is the time for the eu to show some of the courage that the people in belarus show us every day.
madam president, allow me to say thank you to our rapporteur jytte guteland for her work, because this is the time to decide whether we are serious about embarking on a sustainable path towards climate neutrality by 2050 or whether what we had in this house was only political rhetoric. how we vote on the climate law today will define us. the climate crisis we are facing will not go away on its own, nor will it be solved by individual action alone. so we must reduce carbon pollution and transform our economy to run on clean renewable energy. this is not about elitists, as we heard today. this is about realists who are seeing with their eyes the impact of climate change all around us. that’s why this political group is being progressive and realistic in pushing forward a 60% co2 reduction by 2030. s&d are pushing also for a new climate target for 2040 because we want to provide direction for our member states, our industries and our citizens. from the very beginning we were at the forefront in asking for a climate law that can put us strongly on the path to ditch fossil fuels and switch to clean energy whilst sustaining a resilient, robust economy. we need these laws to make sure that we are on track with our targets for 2030, for 2040 and for ensuring carbon neutrality in 2050. just having vague goals on paper did not work, and they will definitely not work. we know some lawmakers will refuse to act. they would rather risk climate catastrophe and let the rest of us deal with the fallout. but this is not acceptable for us. we want to make sure that we start acting today and make our societies and our continent future proof. today and tomorrow we have the opportunity to prove that. (applause)
madam president, last december president von der leyen referred to europe’s ‘man on the moon’ moment. well here we are. this is the first step. je poursuis en français, mais un peu dans la métaphore lunaire tout de même. ce soir, quand nous allons adopter les amendements à la loi climat l’europe fera un pas de géant pour se donner les moyens de devenir en 2050, le premier continent à atteindre la neutralité carbone. c’est historique, cela a été dit. les négociations avec le conseil s’annoncent musclées et j’en entends déjà, ici, maintenant qui veulent affaiblir nos ambitions et plafonner à 55 % net notre objectif de réduction co2 pour 2030. je pense à l’inverse, évidemment, que se donner les moyens de peser, c’est viser 60 %. plus largement et rapidement maintenant, c’est le vote, le paquet de la commission de l’environnement tout simplement qu’il faut soutenir ce soir, à savoir un budget carbone pour 2023, un conseil européen pour le changement climatique et 100 euros minimum la tonne carbone lorsque les états membres ne respectent pas les objectifs du règlement sur la répartition de l’effort. les crues catastrophiques de cette semaine dans le sud-est de la france et le nord de l’italie, nous le rappellent de façon cruelle: nous n’avons d’autre option que l’ambition face à l’urgence climatique.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, who is there, for her excellent report, which i think is really setting the right ambition level. in this house last year we all signed up to the climate emergency. in this house, time and time and again, we signed up to climate neutrality in 30 years’ time. now in the climate law we are going to act – and suddenly you see people getting nervous. maybe they didn’t realise what they were signing up to because it was just a resolution. but that’s not how politics works. if you sign up to these targets you also have to translate it into a binding law, which we are discussing now for 2030. talking about science, it is very clear, and the united nations gap report states very clearly, that if you want to maintain a chance on 1.5°, staying below that, the world needs to reduce by 67% – the world. this means an additional challenge for europe. maybe a last point on the challenges for industry. i also would like to hope that the epp is a bit consistent, because we have been fighting international offsets under the kyoto protocol together and now i see amendments of the epp group bringing back these international offsets and further watering down the targets we are discussing. i think this is really a problem. please, epp, stay a bit consistent for once.
president, we always talk about democracy in grand terms here, but in the meantime this european parliament is about to agree to the european climate law. this will remove the climate goals from national democratic decision-making. first, there is no emergency exit in this law for 30 years to take account of economic hardship or new technological insights in the interim. second, ngos can go to court to align policy with these goals. we know this situation in the netherlands, mr timmermans, from the urgenda case and the nitrogen ruling. the judge is taking over the role of politics. and that's not how we see democracy. we in the european parliament have a mandate from the electorate to represent them well in this house. policies, including climate policy, must be the subject of permanent democratic debate and not be fixed for 30 years.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, with this climate law we are going to share the costs of the energy transition fairly, we are going to lead by example and we are going to make our climate objectives binding. for me, it is very important that the biggest polluters make the biggest contributions, because we cannot shift the costs of the energy transition onto our people. this is still the case today. energy producers responsible for more than 80% of greenhouse gases in the netherlands pay less tax on their emissions than ordinary households. and a study by the oecd shows that in the netherlands we pay on average 60 euros per tonne of co2 and our industry only 15 euros per tonne, which is four times less. the cost of co2 emissions is simply not shared fairly. this can and should be done differently, and with this climate bill, we are taking the first step. mr president, there is a lot of debate about interim climate goals. it's about 55, 60 or 65. there seems to be a compromise for 60% in parliament. i'm not entirely happy about that either. there's no reason not to listen to the science. but i'm positive about this. with the investment programme of this commission, with the european green deal of our frans timmermans, and with the innovative power of industry, i am convinced that a higher objective is attainable and that we will be overtaken by practice in setting up, among other things, a hydrogen economy and a circular economy. let's vote on the climate bill today. let us send a clear signal to our youth, our people and our business community.
mr president, firstly on behalf of renew europe, i want to express my deepest sorrow for all civilians in nagorno-karabakh. secondly, i call on those who are responsible to end all violence, and let me be clear – an immediate ceasefire is paramount. there are even indications that cluster ammunition has been used, and this is an absolute red line. there are also indications that turkey is playing a growing role backing azerbaijan. these are signs that turkey has sent syrian mercenaries and weapons, including offensive drones. i would like to ask mr borrell why this has not yet been confirmed, as the eu so many intelligence services with vast resources. i don’t understand. the european council conclusions last week were very clear, mr borrell. you are responsible for finding a strong european response. therefore, i would like to know: will we stay quiet or will we act to bring this violence to an immediate end? there is no time to lose.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, imagine the cruelty of being put in detention camps with thousands and thousands, chained with no roofs and using cell floors as your bed. for migrant workers from ethiopia in search of a better future, this is the day-to-day reality. in the past six months, at least 30 000 migrants have been put into these cruel, inhumane conditions. human rights organisations report cases of deaths due to inhumane treatment, and these men, women and children have the right to have a dignified life. they have the right to safely return to their homes. the eu should call upon the kingdom of saudi arabia to respect international law and immediately improve conditions. the eu should call upon the ethiopian government to respect the citizens’ rights and urgently facilitate the voluntary repatriation of its nationals, and i call upon the european commission to provide support to ethiopians voluntarily returning home from saudi arabia and to send diplomatic representatives from the eu to visit the detention camps.
mr. president, have you ever been looking for a new charger or a birthday present for your nephew? and then you come across stuff online for such low prices that you wonder how this can be so cheap. it's almost too good to be true. and it is! more than two thirds of products purchased on foreign online marketplaces are illegal or do not meet european safety requirements. their producers are usually not established within the eu, which also forces consumers to complain abroad. and now that we work, learn and shop online, e-commerce is booming in europe. that is good, but it is important that people can be assured of the quality and safety of their products, especially since our european markets and producers are - with a few exceptions - very strict about the rules. i am therefore pleased that the european rules on online services are being revised to better protect consumers and to prevent our businesses from being left behind. this also means that if you are operating in the eu, you must have a point of contact in the eu when products or services do not meet european standards. in short, foreign companies must also comply with our rules in our market. the coronavirus crisis has also shown us the potential of new technologies. for example, artificial intelligence helps doctors in the search for a vaccine and monitoring patients. if we're going to use ai on a larger scale, trust from people and businesses is going to be crucial. clear and transparent rules can help. fortunately, ai is not new, and it's already regulated by various laws. i therefore advocate that when we introduce new rules we ensure that they are proportionate to the impact of the application. because a smart thermostat for heating your home is nothing like an algorithm that spreads fake news through social media. the digital market is an international market par excellence and i believe that our developers should be given the space to fulfil our european ambitions.
mr president, what you and i get to see on the internet is based on what gives big tech companies the highest profits for their shareholders. their algorithms decide what we get to see, based on clicks, manipulation and micro—targeting. but the digital services act is our opportunity to rethink and reclaim our internet. we see now that extreme content is often promoted and queer content is sometimes censored by big platforms, but we have no way of holding platforms accountable for these decisions. we can only protect the freedom of speech and the freedom of information if we know what is actually happening online and we regulate the players who control it. online platforms must be transparent about what they show to whom and why, but also about what they delete from the internet. only then can we hold online platforms accountable. we need to take the internet back from big corporations and put it back into the hands of the people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am writing from the european parliament's liaison office in munich and i am very pleased that these new opportunities have been created. algorithms are influencing consumer decisions, they're controlling connected household goods, they're even making decisions about creditworthiness or in a human resources department. these are all achievements that are very beautiful, very good. however, we must remember that there are always risks involved and that damage can be done. it is therefore good and right that we have been thinking about how we can adapt liability law to developments in the field of artificial intelligence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first, it is very important to us that not only physical damage is dealt with, but also intangible damage. algorithms may be fed with distorted data and may lead to incorrect decisions that can be very discriminatory. it can mean, for example, a refusal of credit, and that is absolutely unacceptable. we have to make sure we have answers to these questions. secondly, we need to have liability not only from the manufacturer of the product but also from the software developers, because they may have a better and greater control over the way things are done in this area. thirdly, we want the burden of proof to be reversed. if a coffee machine is broken, for example, we will notice it very quickly and we may also be able to identify the cause as consumers. if it is a software product, we cannot do that, and that is why it is important that the burden of proof does not fall on the consumer. we therefore appeal to the european commission: fundamental rights must be respected in all areas of artificial intelligence. the new rules must be consumer-friendly and take account of all hazards and harms in the risk assessment. and the product liability directive needs to be modernised.
mr president, with the covid-19 crisis, we have all irreversibly entered the digital age, but our rules are already more than 20 years old, which in digital terms means that we are more than a century behind. the internet is a great opportunity for us to make a difference in the lives of those who live in our cities. innovation and competitiveness are at stake, as are public freedoms and security. the terrible attack that took place this weekend in conflans, france, shows us once again the urgency of legislating and taking our responsibilities. let us be courageous! today, let us call together to develop a digital market without disproportionate and unjustified national barriers, to address the risks to citizens, and to increase and regulate the responsibility of platforms. this parliament's programme is ambitious and i hope, madam commissioner, madam vice-president, that the commission will be able to show even greater ambition in its duty of care and in the fight against illegal content and practices. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the internet in the context of the fight against terrorism. as has been said, being free means first of all being responsible. this maxim applies to all of us, citizens or platforms, whether in real or virtual life: let's call for civic online and think about the victims of today and tomorrow.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, in the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the future law on digital services, the european parliament sends a clear message about the need to adapt european rules to the digital age and the data economy. the report, focusing on the review of the e-commerce directive, is intended to be a valuable contribution to the commission's forthcoming legislative proposal. the future rule should continue to respect well-established principles in the directive, such as the internal market clause, the freedom of establishment and the prohibition of imposing a general monitoring obligation on digital intermediaries. the important thing now, however, is that the directive on electronic commerce be updated, for example to clarify the liability regime for content management and to provide tools to deal with the growing volume of illegal goods, which are so damaging to the manufacturing sector. the new proposal's scope should go beyond the e-commerce directive and adapt the concepts of competition to digitalisation. as has been the case in other sectors, national regulators must have the tools to address the growing number of barriers to data access that businesses encounter in trying to reach customers. i am referring to the elimination of rigid access conditions, unlimited access to the functions of operating systems or even to the data of legal transactions. finally, we must ensure that in a digital market all companies have access to third party providers on equal terms and in a transparent manner, because this will ultimately result in better services and more research.
president, two weeks ago i asked commissioner breton how he would ensure that content moderation on online platforms would not undermine freedom of expression. he stated that the emphasis of his policy would be on speeding up the tackling of content that is already illegal, such as terrorism and child pornography. we are of course supporting commissioner breton in this. but the european parliament is going in the wrong direction. if it is up to this house, it will be possible to ban unwelcome or politically incorrect content under the guise of 'harmfulness' from social platforms, regardless of whether this content is also considered illegal. freedom of expression is the foundation of our free western society, a core cultural value. i hope that the commission will recognize this danger and will never allow this core cultural asset to be endangered.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, it’s true: the moldova association agreement is a very ambitious one. it has been in place for the last four years. it’s rooted in democracy, respect for human rights and for the rule of law. these values are at the core of the objective of political association and economic integration of the republic of moldova with the european union. but as you have been emphasising, only tangible significant progress on the moldovan side, with the full implementation of necessary reforms, will enable progress in addressing long-term challenges with which you are very familiar. these challenges are weak state institutions, persistently high levels of corruption and oligarch structures, a deficient judiciary, an aging population and economic challenges faced by young people, leading to poverty and brain drain through immigration. as an associated country, moldova remains an important partner within the eastern partnership framework. the presidential elections on 1 november will be a crucial juncture in our partnership, and as the report highlights, these elections will be a test for democracy and the rule of law in the country, thus practices contravening international standards must be absolutely avoided. in previous elections, the organisation for security and co-operation in europe (osce) observed vote-buying, misuse of state resources and pressuring voters, among others. that’s quite a lot – vote-buying, misuse of state resources, pressuring voters, among others. in the current covid-19 context, it is even more important to ensure that all moldovans are given a free and fair opportunity to vote, following a transparent, inclusive and credible election process, which we will be closely monitoring. we also expect the moldovan authorities to address the recent actions that risk the hard-won independence of the national bank of moldova and the stability of the global banking sector. i agree with your report that the lack of results of the prosecution are unexplainable – not to use another word. multiple postponements of the ongoing trials of the 2014 one-billion-dollar banking fraud, which means 15% of moldova’s gdp, are deeply problematic. clear delivery on that issue is a litmus test for moldova’s fight against corruption. on the other hand, the covid-19 pandemic is having a devastating impact on moldova. our solidarity and assistance in response to the pandemic has been strong and the european union remains the biggest provider of aid. we have mobilised over eur 100 million in bilateral grant support, focusing on the immediate need for protective equipment, strengthening the healthcare system and supporting socio-economic recovery. looking ahead, we will be updating our association agenda. this offers a further opportunity to focus on reform priorities across all sectors, supporting civil society and, in particular, engaging with local actors and strengthening independent media will remain key. we shall also continue the full implementation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area, supporting small and medium enterprises and advancing the ambitious process of regulatory approximation. our future assistance will continue to be linked to clear delivery and reforms. the european union’s strict and smart conditionality phase out as it pushes the necessary reform to improve lives and strengthen moldova’s resilience. this is the purpose of our association agreement, and i am very happy to participate in this presentation of your report. i fully agree with the need to continue working with moldova and to fully engage on the fight against coronavirus and these challenges that i have been mentioning which show that this country really needs and deserves our support.
in writing. the european future of the republic of moldova is a certainty and its democratic trajectory is clear. although it faced many obstacles in this direction, many coming from its own political class, the way to european-style progress remained open. i deplore the actions of those backward political forces in chisinau who do not understand that prosperity can only be ensured by creating the conditions for the rule of law: an independent and functioning judiciary, a free, robust and predictable economy and respect for individual freedoms of citizens. today we are debating in plenary the report on the eu-republic of moldova association agreement, for which i will vote. the document presents both the progress made by the republic of moldova, fully acknowledged and encouraged by the eu institutions and states, and the shortcomings, such as endemic corruption and poor justice, among many others. i support the proposal to create a strict conditionality mechanism, which will link eu assistance to the adoption and implementation, at an accelerated pace, of the necessary reforms. the benefits of close links with the eu are clear and this cooperation must be continued, strengthened and developed. i call on the entire leadership of the republic of moldova, administration and political parties, to rise to this challenge, fully assuming responsibility towards its own citizens.
before we continue the debate, we move on to the first voting period today. we will then vote on the dossiers as indicated in the agenda and, before we begin, the rapporteur tomáš zdechovský has asked to speak before the voting period on his 2018 discharge reports.
mr president, i would like to say that the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament an important role, namely to control the budget of the european union. and we cannot accept that there are eu institutions that take the eu budget as a gift, as something that comes to them every year, and that think they can behave the way they behave. this year, the committee on budgetary control and i have decided to make it clear that we do not support the discharge of the two institutions. one is traditionally the european council and the council, where, unfortunately, despite great effort, no consensus has been reached on how the closure procedure should be conducted. the second body is the european economic and social committee, which, in its various failings, was clearly unable to answer our questions and to take any action that would give us confidence that this body is capable of properly protecting the interests of european citizens. ladies and gentlemen, that's why i took the floor today. we need to send a clear signal that we will not tolerate anyone in the european parliament or in the european institutions who does not treat european funds properly, and i ask you to vote unequivocally in support of our proposal. thank you, have a good day, a cheerful mind and most of all, good health to all of you!
the voting period will run from 9.15 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. the vote shall be taken in accordance with the same procedure as before. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the voting period open. you can vote until 10:30. the results of this first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m. we now come to the debates scheduled for the next partsession, and the joint debate on the common agricultural policy is now under way.
i would inform the house that there will be no 'catch the eye' or 'blue card' questions in this debate, but that we will be accepting references to the rules of procedure. in addition, remote assistance from the liaison offices of the member states is foreseen.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a time for discussion. so there is a right time for compromise, and there is a right time for decisions. that's right, the reform was discussed at length. you could say that in 2018, the reform was introduced by phil hogan. for the information of our younger colleagues, that was our agriculture commissioner at the time. until the election, ms herranz accompanied the dossier, and after the 2019 election, we started a broad debate. we wanted to reach a major compromise with our colleague from the environment committee, but unfortunately the chairman of the environment committee cancelled those talks. now there's a package on the table, and frankly, i would have done the reform quite differently. the same applies to my colleague mrs noichl, mr hlaváček, mr häusling, mr bert-jan ruissen and all the other rapporteurs. everyone had their own ideas and would make it much, much better. we must, of course, formulate our group's positions, but we are here primarily to find compromises. it takes courage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the content: 30% is reserved for the so-called eco-schemes, 35% for the second pillar for environmental and climate action. flexibility between the two pillars is given for environmental measures. 30% of the investments are earmarked for investments in climate and environmental measures. we have strengthened the conditionality, leguminous vegetables in the crop rotation, definitions of water protection zones, the land should be green all year round, each farmer must keep 5% of his agricultural area free of fertilisers and pesticides. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the aim is to change the action-oriented model to a goal-oriented model, and this creates the necessary freedom for the member states to achieve their objectives. that is why i would like to appeal once again to all those who may be dissatisfied with the details: what will really matter then is this national strategic plan, and we simply have to help the member states to take advantage of this opportunity and reduce the bureaucracy for european farmers. so once again - and i say this to all the critics - once again i appeal to you to give the reform a chance in the interests of the environment, in the interests of climate protection, and above all in the interests of european farmers. they need planning certainty. we have decided to have a two-year transition period to put this new delivery model into practice. this model must not only be decided, it must not only be coordinated with brussels, it must also be understood in practice. i therefore ask all my colleagues in this parliament once again to take part in the search for a compromise, to not stand aside and give reform a chance, to give european agriculture a chance!
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. after two years of intensive work we are now finally reaching agreement on the common agricultural policy. we must take a clear stand in this vote and vote for the ten million farmers we have in europe. they need a perspective and planning certainty. unfortunately, much negative sentiment has been and is being expressed about what farmers should do for society and what the value of their service to society is. it is clear that we need our farming families and strong economic spaces in all regions of europe - and i emphasize farming families. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted. these farmers rely on us to provide the highest quality food every day. it is precisely in the context of the coronavirus pandemic that people - particularly in the wealthy member states - have probably thought about security of supply for the first time in a long time. we are now setting up a practical, workable framework for the common agricultural policy, and it needs pragmatic and rational approaches and must not be seen as ideologically driven in dealing with agriculture and food. the cap has been an important hub for our region and an important hub within europe for decades. 'unity in diversity' is our motto and it is now reflected in this new future common agricultural policy. i think there were four main themes and big blocks in my report: what should the future agricultural policy look like? firstly, the people in the regions know best how to frame the national strategic plans. the approach is therefore to give member states more flexibility and to abolish the 'one size fits all' principle. this means that the agricultural and forestry professions and the rural population must be actively involved in the preparation of the national strategic plans in the european countries. secondly, to shift more responsibility to the member states, but at the same time to maintain a real common agricultural policy, that is for me an important step forward. the consistent implementation of the single audit principle - i.e. the elimination of double auditing - relieves the member states and thus also the farmers. at the same time, reporting on actual results on the basis of pan-european indicators ensures fair and transparent implementation of the cap objectives. thirdly, our farmers are already doing a lot to promote biodiversity, soil and water conservation and climate protection, in addition to providing food. this requires feasible, regionally tailored approaches, plus training and further education in line with the latest scientific knowledge. this is the great opportunity of the supply model and eco-schemes and the joint opportunity to create incentives to reward farmers who implement the best possible economic practices on their holdings in their regions. in bavaria, every third hectare is covered by environmental programmes. and fourthly, in some member states, the implementation and control of eu funding is difficult, either because of weak administrative structures or lack of transparency. this complaint mechanism we are introducing for farmers is an important step in that direction. i believe that the report on financing, management and control which i have presented will make us fit for the future and able to respond adequately to the challenges facing society. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the constructive open dialogue and i hope to continue to have your support.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, there is much to be said about the presentation of this reform of the common agricultural policy, but i shall of course present and deal only with the report for which i am responsible, which is the report on the common organization of the market. the common organisation of the market: these three words have never been more relevant. the health crisis we are experiencing is here to remind us, if need be, that the invisible hand of the market does not exist, mr president, that markets cannot regulate themselves, that all this is a deception and that the regulation or regulations are there to improve the functioning of markets. agricultural markets are structurally unstable, that is a fact. we need to guarantee our farmers a fairer and more stable income to support them in the coming green transition, and the common organisation of the markets is there above all to better manage crises. we need to be efficient. yes, markets are volatile: that is a fact, but it is not a fatality. that is why, commissioner, we must put the commission at the centre of the system. that is why the commission must remain the guarantor of market integrity in the face of crises, it must play its full role as a sectoral regulator and that is our first proposal: sectoral regulator in agricultural matters. like any managing authority, it must establish an action strategy within a performance framework, based on monitoring and result indicators. it will therefore have to be evaluated annually and report back to parliament and the council. to enable the commission to play its role as a sectoral regulator effectively, we propose to create a single european farm market observatory, which will have to collect more information, not just on milk and sugar, but on all sectors. it should make it possible to improve transparency and thus trigger early warnings in order to put in place appropriate management tools: aid for private storage, of course, public storage as a last resort, voluntary withdrawals which were proposed unanimously by the groups present. but also, mr president, commissioner, we are going to propose with my group - and i thank my president, mrs iratxe garcía pérez - compulsory withdrawal. the idea is to allow the commission to decide on mandatory withdrawal in the event of a serious crisis. i would urge you to vote in large numbers for this amendment, because it will allow production to be regulated in the event of a serious crisis. by voting, ladies and gentlemen, you can also make organic farmers safer. if we want to reach 25% of organic farming areas by 2030, we need to secure farmers and guarantee them a price level so that they can make the transition. that is what we propose in amendment no 274, also tabled by my group. in the event of a market crisis, the european union will have to bear the difference between the price of the product from organic farming and the price of the product from conventional farming. among other measures, it is imperative that import quotas for products with favourable duties respect social and environmental conditions. imported products that do not meet eu production standards will be banned outright. as you know, wine-growing has been hit hard by the health crisis and it was necessary to give it a new perspective. we therefore propose to extend planting authorisations until 2050 and to simplify the procedure for amending the specifications of protected designations of origin. and to enable the sector to adapt to changes in consumption, we will allow wines below 8.5° to be wines, so that this margin of the market does not escape the wine sector. this is a major issue. finally, to enable consumers to understand what they are eating, especially with regard to wine products, as with solid food, we will propose a labelling indicating the calories and what is in the wine bottle, i.e. the list of ingredients, either on the bottle or in a non-physical form. i would like to stress that this also concerns the future of the wine sector. another important step forward seems to me to be that all products with a protected designation of origin will be able to adapt their production to demand. what is possible today for wine, cheese and ham will now be applicable to all sectors. if i take the example of the county in france, we can see how this sector can regulate production since it controls the whole chain from the upstream to the downstream, which is also important to do with force. finally, we propose to improve the functioning of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations and to strengthen them. this is imperative so that farmers can seek more value. it is through more collective action, not through individualism and opportunism, that they will do better tomorrow. i should also like to say a few words about the names of the meat. there is a lack of european legislation on this issue, commissioner. the consumer must be properly informed, but it must also be possible for vegetable proteins to develop as well as animal proteins. the european legislation will therefore have to be supplemented. this is the subject of amendment no 275 on article 78, which my group and i are proposing to you. it is important to maintain a balance between vegetable and animal proteins. in conclusion, mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs and all the teams who took part in our work and made it possible to do an excellent job and, thus, to draw up a report which will undoubtedly give economic prospects for the future of european agriculture.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the current pandemic has clearly reminded us of the importance of the cap in ensuring food security in europe. at the same time, agriculture as an economic sector must contribute, as far as possible, to the common struggles against climate change, for a better protection of our water resources and against the loss of biodiversity. but also the very survival of our farmers must be guaranteed, because without farmers we cannot fight climate change, nor produce enough healthy food. as rapporteur on strategic plans in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i thank all colleagues who have contributed constructively to the process because we have results: buffer zones along rivers and the protection of permanent grasslands to name a few. however, i denounce the irresponsible behaviour of those who have torpedoed the joint work between the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and sustainable development. we could have done better and faster in the interests of the environment and our farmers.
member of the commission. – mr president, i’d like to thank the rapporteurs, mr jahr, ms müller and mr andrieu, for their hard work in recent months to reach a compromise with the shadow rapporteurs and the political groups on the three common agricultural policy (cap) legislative proposals. we are at a crucial moment in the process towards the new common agricultural policy. both the council, negotiating the general approach at this very moment in luxembourg, and the european parliament here in brussels are finalising their respective mandates and preparing to enter the decisive stage of trilogues. it is important for our farmers and our farming community to have clarity on the legal framework for the years to come. we need a strong common agricultural policy to ensure that european agriculture can continue to provide economic, environmental and social benefits for our farmers and citizens in the future. this includes the delivery of stronger environmental and climate ambitions, as set out in the green deal and the farm to fork strategy. i welcome the fact that many honourable members agree with this basic orientation for the future common agricultural policy. however, i note that some amendments do not share our ambition for a greener and fairer cap. let me briefly turn now to the individual proposals to mention a few key points about the strategic plan regulation. if we want to achieve the objectives of the european green deal, it is essential that the key elements of its green architecture are maintained or further strengthened in the future cap. this is especially essential if we want the cap to contribute in a credible manner with 40% of its spending to the 30% overall climate objective of the eu budget. let me now highlight the main building blocks of our green architecture and where we stand in this respect. regarding conditionality, the foundation of the future environmental ambition comes from the proposed enhanced conditionality, including the good agricultural and environmental conditions (gaec) applicable to all farmers as a condition for receiving full direct payment. strong gaecs are essential for reaching the climate and environmental goals established by the european green deal. this is particularly true for gaec 9, which is key to the success of the biodiversity strategy. the proposal to reduce the scope of this gaec to arable land only will not be sufficient to reach our targets. while i agree that the problem may be more acute on arable land, such an approach is counterproductive in halting the loss of biodiversity because other types of agricultural land should also contribute to the biodiversity targets. allowing farmers to fulfil their obligation with respect to biodiversity by simply not spraying pesticides and fertiliser on 5% of their arable land, regardless of the crops, would be a step backwards compared with the current situation. this would not contribute to our biodiversity strategy. regarding the eco-schemes, these are key and they are designed to make a difference and incentivise farmers to maintain and adopt the practices necessary for the green transition. the commission strongly supports an ambitious and credible ring-fencing of eco-schemes and welcomes the amendment in this respect. the commission is, at the same time, fully aware of the risk that some funding could be left unspent if farmers do not sign up to these measures in sufficient numbers, especially in the first years. we share these concerns and are ready to explore possible solutions, such as making ring-fencing in pillar 1 more flexible or taking on board higher efforts made under pillar 2 on the environmental objectives. any flexibility must be compatible with the high environmental and climate ambition and the 40% spending target to which i referred previously. in that sense, when considering eco-schemes, let’s keep in mind that it is not only about ambitious budget allocations. the quality of eco-schemes is equally essential to delivering our environmental and climate ambition. during my recent exchange with the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri), we discussed a non-exhaustive list of possible eco-schemes. we are ready to continue working with the co-legislator in this area, while acknowledging that member states should be able to design eco-schemes best adapted to their specific needs and circumstances. another layer in our environmental ambition concerns the ring-fencing of 30% of the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) budget for agro-environmental measures. we now see attempts to include payments to areas with natural constraints (ancs) and with limited environmental contribution, as shown by recent evaluations, in this ring-fencing. this is not credible. the european court of auditors has rightly criticised this. we are aware of this. this would be backsliding from the current situation where at eu level we are spending 35% on the environment and climate under the agricultural fund for rural development without anc payments. if the finally proposed ring-fencing of 35% were to include 40% of anc payments, this would be a step backwards compared with today. we have to be serious about the new environmental ambition of the cap and, therefore, we are determined to count under the ring-fencing only payments for farmers or other beneficiaries who do more for the environment than simply respecting baseline obligations. this is not the case of anc payments. please allow me to make one final comment on the strategic plan regulation and the performance review. to ensure the cap delivers on its core objectives and the green deal objectives, we need the right performance indicators and a regular review. if it is to have a credible mechanism to defend publicly the added value of the cap, the commission needs the means to adequately monitor and, if necessary, take action against those member states lagging behind. ideally, we need a yearly review covering all results indicators included in the cap plan. a strong monitoring system and the means to steer implementation will allow the commission to report regularly and comprehensively to the european parliament, ensuring transparency and enabling public scrutiny. regarding the new delivery model and the horizontal regulation proposed by ms müller, i note that the commission proposal for the new common agricultural policy is based on the premise that it is working well. there is continuity from the current period in the structure and role of the governance bodies. the commission proposal clearly states that the member states must deliver on performance and have a robust governance system in place, such as paying agencies as part of the integrated administration and control system and the land parcel identification system. this will ensure sound financial management. member states will check eligibility at beneficiary level. this does not mean that there will be no controls in the future. moreover, the commission can take appropriate measures if national control systems are not operational. we will still have a robust assurance model. however, detailed eligibility rules set at the level of the union requirements would create a system where member states would have to report on compliance on top of performance and the commission would have to audit the detailed rules. this two-layer system – compliance and performance-based – would entail an unbearable administrative burden for the member states. a two-layer system, together with the amendments proposed on the performance review and the performance clearance, may prevent the member states from timely delivery on performance. finally, on the common market organisation (cmo) regulation and mr andrieu’s report on the proposal, in its 2018 proposal, the commission maintained the architecture and main features of the current cmo. it is my firm conviction that we should avoid reverting to the old cap with permanent intervention in markets with automatic triggers of crisis measures that would blow market signals and annihilate the market orientation given to the policy since the 1990s. market intervention instruments have been successfully triggered in a flexible and timely manner in previous years, together with the possibility for the commission to adopt exceptional measures whenever needed. introducing new compulsory procedural steps would weaken and slow down the ability of the european union to respond to any agricultural market crises. exceptional measures should respect the same principles of market orientation, avoiding the reintroduction of production quotas. in relation to the wine package, we are open to discuss some of the amendments, but the duration of our current vine-planting authorisation scheme, introduced in 2016, should not be changed as it would be premature to extract any conclusions today. the regime is due to be reassessed in 2023. panie przewodniczący! jeszcze raz dziękuję za wspólną pracę, za konstruktywną współpracę. jestem przekonany, że tworzymy reformę, która uczyni rolnictwo europejskie bardziej przyjaznym dla środowiska, dla klimatu, dla dobrostanu zwierząt, ale również reformę, która uczyni rolnictwo europejskie bardziej odpornym na kryzysy. reformę, która wzmocni bezpieczeństwo ekonomiczne naszych rolników i która zapewni bezpieczeństwo żywnościowe dla naszych obywateli teraz i w przyszłości.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. dear rapporteurs, all three of you, a heartfelt thank you for your work over the last year, year and a half, two years. it was huge. ladies and gentlemen, it is our great responsibility to adopt such a reform of the common agricultural policy as will enable european farmers to continue to provide healthy, quality and affordable food for europeans. we must ensure that farmers have a decent income for their work and an equal position in the food chain. we also need to support small farms which are rapidly leaving farming. the average age of european farmers is over 57 years old, and i welcome measures to support young entrepreneurs. but we must not forget the social position of those who give up farms. i support measures that promote knowledge transfer, digitisation of agricultural production and measures to support the concept of smart villages. these are measures to make the european countryside more habitable. farmers have always been the ones to thank for the landscaping and environmental protection. in the future, more funds are planned under the green architecture of the cap to protect the environment and combat climate change, the effects of which are felt first and foremost by farmers. however, the basic function of agriculture remains to produce enough food to provide farmers with a decent income, and we must support farmers who actually produce food through the basic payment and the production-related payments.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, we have made cohesion and ecology the keywords of the economic recovery of the new green deal for europe and the new budgetary framework. we must ensure that the community policies are consistent in their objectives, and that is precisely what we expect from the common agricultural policy. for our committee on regional development, reducing territorial divides is an obsession. we believe that the common agricultural policy can contribute to the development of rural, forestry and agricultural areas, and that this is achieved by maintaining the population in rural areas and by providing sustainable incomes for farmers. our regi committee also asks that the future cap not penalise the outermost regions and that is why our report rejects the cuts proposed by the european commission and i want to thank, on behalf of our whole committee, the committee on agriculture and sustainable development and rapporteur eric andrieu for maintaining their firm and uncompromising position in this direction. we now expect, commissioner, that the council, which is meeting today, will return to a position of reason and validate the european parliament's position for the maintenance of the posei budget. in conclusion, i call on all colleagues to stand firm and not to give up in this battle.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the common agricultural policy enables a whole profession to carry out the noblest of missions: to ensure that our citizens are supplied with affordable, quality food products, and to contribute to the development of our rural areas. as a member of the epp group's negotiating team on this reform, i know how difficult and sometimes frustrating the negotiation process has been over the past few months. nevertheless, an agreement was reached. the progressive integration of environmental and climate issues into the common agricultural policy is one of the main strengths of its evolution. but let us not give in to the over-bidding in this area by promoting political totems and big numbers outside of any concrete reality. i prefer to rely on the ground and the truth is that farmers have not waited for us to engage in the transition of their practices and we must support them through incentives rather than coercion, through accompaniment rather than sanctions. while the cap's environmental and climate ambition is strengthened by this agreement, it also ensures a balance between these objectives and support for farmers' income and the economic development of the sectors. ladies and gentlemen, we have fought over the last few months to ensure that the common agricultural policy remains a tool for the agricultural economy, since this policy is essential to support european sectors in their development and structuring, but also to help them cope with the globalisation of trade. we have introduced new operational programmes, revised the rules on cooperation tools between farmers, secured the tasks of interbranches in relation to the application of competition law, strengthened the supply management tools for quality products and, finally, extended the system of planting authorisations until 2050. we also fought to reform the crisis reserve to make it more operational and to set up a european observatory to improve market transparency and enable the union to intervene quickly in the event of a major crisis. finally, an ecological barrier is introduced by prohibiting the entry onto the european market of products which do not meet our health and environmental standards. ladies and gentlemen, one of the main challenges of the reform is also the maintenance of the common character of the common agricultural policy. if the cap is to be flexible in order to adapt to the realities of european territories, it is essential to maintain a strong common base, otherwise we will be moving towards 27 divergent european agricultural policies and we will not be able to guarantee equal treatment between farmers. parliament has therefore committed itself to combating this deadly trend towards the european idea. colleagues, together, despite our differences, let us defend this common ambition.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in the middle of march europe came to a standstill. they closed businesses, they closed offices, they closed schools. europe stopped, but we were able, through the drive and commitment of our primary sector, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, to ensure food security, to ensure food for our families. this was certainly an essential moment to see the importance of the debate which brings us here today, the debate on a new reform of the common agricultural policy which advances the objective which we have clearly set out for ourselves by the european institutions: a cap which is more environmentally sustainable, more socially sustainable, which is able to guarantee food security so as not to depend on outside production and, also, which is able to guarantee a living wage to farmers. we have been trying for several decades to transform our agriculture so that it is more in line with our environmental policies and also so that the products have a higher quality and safety, with new traceability systems. with each reform we deepen these objectives, but as we have said, we must try to adapt them to the great diversity we have in europe. this text puts environmental architecture at the heart of the reform. the first key point is that direct payments will be subject to a reinforced conditionality with a clear environmental seal. what was previously optional is now the norm. 30% of the first pillar will be reserved for the new eco-schemes, a series of new interventions. that will take environmental ambition to unprecedented levels in terms of budget: 30% in the first pillar of direct aid. and we want to ensure that at least 35% of the rural development is provided. we do not want it to be an environmental policy only, we also want it to have a social dimension, and for that we need to ensure that jobs are of quality and that there is a generational renewal. the generational gap that exists on farms today must be broken and the integration of young people is therefore essential. but let us not forget the importance of women. our rural environment is totally masculinized. we are losing women in rural areas, and when a village loses the last woman living in that village, it is bound to disappear. it is therefore essential that we incorporate the gender dimension in order to have policies targeted at women. 95% are small family businesses, and in each of the areas of the european union they face different challenges. and that is why national plans must also be adapted to the regional realities we have at the moment in europe. agriculture in the european union is the most diverse in the world, and we are adapting. the cap is a fundamental pillar of the european green deal. the cap together with the farm-to-table strategy and the biodiversity strategy must make our food industry healthier, fairer and more environmentally friendly. and that is why we will continue to work to provide the union with a legislative framework that goes beyond this cap, because we need to adapt it to a new reality. for all of them, we will continue to work.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). direct income support is not a measure which structurally improves the competitive position of farmers. instead, farmers should be given much more opportunities to earn their income from the market. i am therefore also pleased that a proposal of mine has been included in the final compromise text of the european parliament. i am in favour of european competition rules leaving more room for sustainability initiatives from the agricultural sector. of course, agreements in the chain should not lead to high prices. this is not in the interest of the consumer, but it is in the interest of the consumer that the products are produced in a more sustainable way. so i think that the european competition authority should also look at this and leave more room in the chain for agreements on sustainability, and that the additional costs incurred for a better environment, better animal welfare and a better climate can also be effectively reflected in the price. a second aspect is the greening policy within the common agricultural policy. the european court of auditors has been quite critical of the fact that this has not worked. i agree with that and i see that a number of things need to be adjusted. at the moment, generic measures from brussels are directing farmers to work more sustainably. only, the differences in europe are great: it's snowing in finland right now and it's beautiful weather in athens. there is insufficient consideration of local conditions. and perhaps a bigger problem is that it only looks at whether the measures from brussels have actually been implemented by the farmer and that it does not look at what the effects of those measures have been on the farm. so we have to do it the other way around. we should start focusing on performance. we need to be guided by the results that individual companies are achieving. and please use the farmer's knowledge. because he knows exactly what's going on in his company in the local conditions.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new common agricultural policy is certainly one of the most important reforms of the entire legislature. the cap is one of the few european programmes that has worked in recent years and has brought real money to our farms and our territories. i have had the privilege of participating in the legislative drafting of this cap and i can say that there have been positive aspects of this reform, but also negative aspects. it was a good thing, but it could have been a lot more. we could do much more to cut red tape, which is the first real big problem that our farmers face every day; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are not burdened by the environmental measures proposed by the european commission. it is often forgotten in brussels that the first guardians of the environment are farmers themselves and that we need an agriculture which is not only environmentally sustainable but also economically sustainable. more could have been done to defend pdo and pgi products and more could have been done to combat unfair competition which steals 100 billion euros a year from made in italy. the new cap also brings new challenges, such as the naming of meat, which affects millions of farmers and consumers. there is no meat without meat. synthetic meat, lab-made meat, that doesn't have a single milligram of meat inside of it, can't be called meat. our farmers and consumers must be protected, not cheated to please the interests of some multinational corporation. we all know that the real game being played on the cap is that linked to the european budget. the future cap will be positive or negative depending on how much money is allocated to agriculture in the 2021-2027 budget, and this is where the most complete darkness still exists. but one thing must be clear to all of us, as we have done in recent months, we are prepared to fight to reject any proposal to cut the cap. the italian farmers will not have to lose a single euro. we will fight this to the end, together with our farmers, because the lives of thousands of farms are at stake and we must all protect them, because, as the coronavirus emergency has shown, a country without agriculture is a country without a future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what the grand coalition is putting on the table here does not deserve the name 'reform'. this is a 'further' approach in the common agricultural policy. we've had a chaotic trial with the shadow reporters, and we have a vote today that is simply a scandal. no split votes, everything is voted on, so to speak, only if the grand coalition wants it, and we simply cannot speak with amendments. this is a scandal. in the shadow of the corona crisis, they are now trying to win something that really does not deserve the name "reform". what bothers me is that everyone here is talking about 30% eco-schemes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the big farmers will benefit from this, but the small farmers we need will not. mr babiš and mr orbán can be pleased about that, and 80% of the money is still going to 20% of the farms. it will remain so, therefore it is not a reform! i have to say, the socialists are the biggest losers of the year. we have always worked well together in the central meetings, but now they are joining the epp. i'm surprised. they have to explain. yesterday we received a report from the environment agency which presents very dramatic figures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. what about the farm-to-fork strategy that's not in the proposal? what about the biodiversity strategy that's not in there? they're not setting concrete targets, like the farm-to-fork strategy. 50% less pesticides, 50% less antibiotics, less fertilisers, but also less cheap soy imports, water consumption, more protein production in europe. we need 10% of the area that guarantees biodiversity. all this is not in the proposals at all. instead, you talk about precision farming in the eco-schemes, a farmer who sprays more precisely does not automatically spray less! so, the whole thing is a joke, if you look at it the way it's being proposed. what surprises me, commissioner, is that you've remained so calm about the whole thing. with this 'reform', the commission will not be able to make the green deal or achieve its climate goals. it's not gonna work. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make a number of proposals. we may be able to save some, but we need the commission to do that.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not only a policy of protection of the environment, but also a policy of protection of the environment. the package of strategic plans presented today is disappointing in that respect. not only because it is tabled by only three groups, but also because of the direction of thinking in these plans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the basic premium is very clear, and it is demanding even more, whereas the challenges of the future require entrepreneurship and therefore freedom for the entrepreneur to make his own choices. fortunately, the ecological scheme has been able to provide a tailor-made solution. we also find it very difficult to provide adequate financial compensation. as i said, the basic premium is being increased, but at the same time it is being reduced by 30% or more. that's not fair, of course. the farmer is also required to withdraw 10% of his land from production, whereas, because of the system chosen, he can only receive half of the financial compensation under annex iii. that too is, of course, highly questionable. we need policies that allow room for innovation and contribute to a fair price. it is crucial that the agricultural budget is maintained in the interest of a strong and sustainable agricultural sector, which is ultimately in the interest of all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and all the members of the committee on agriculture for the excellent work they have done in the difficult negotiations to reform the common agricultural policy. agriculture accounts for 47% of the eu's territory and employs 22 million europeans. reforming the cap means modernising one of europe's strategic sectors, making it innovative and relevant to the times we live in. this means ensuring the quality of our products, strengthening businesses, protecting the environment, promoting animal welfare and supporting the digital development of rural areas and the generational change of european agriculture. the covid crisis taught us that for the first time, the food chain could break, but it didn't. the pandemic, also in agriculture, has shown us that united we are more resilient, as farmers, distributors, processors, wholesale markets have confirmed that working together, the agri-food chain is safer, stronger and more transparent for businesses, the environment and consumers. a reformed cap will enable our farmers to be more competitive, respect the environment, counteract unfair competition from non-european countries and guarantee consumers food safety and quality as well as transparent prices. the european parliament is today calling for the common agricultural policy to continue to play its role in integrating and bringing together the european union's socioeconomic fabric, allowing individual member states to play a leading role in a strategic sector of the world economy.
the european community's common agricultural policy was originally designed to guarantee a stable food supply, with favourable prices for the consumer and a reasonable income for the farmer. the perverse result in practice is that european farmers have been made dependent over the last decades on european agricultural subsidies which are raised with a lot of dutch taxpayers' money and from which dutch farmers only marginally benefit. this dependence on the european subsidy infusion is now being abused by the eu to enforce ever stricter environmental regulations. the commission is not meeting with the farmers, it is meeting over them. the netherlands is a small country, but in the efficient use of land and in the care for the environment we are world champions! the netherlands can take care of its farmers without the european bureaucracy. we are talking about an independent agricultural sector where the farmer can be the master of his own farm again.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would like to start by saying to the commissioner that we live in troubling times, and as we face the second corona wave we all hoped we could avoid, people’s concerns about their health, employment and welfare are deepening. the truth is, we don’t know how long we have to live with this virus. we face the unknown, and as creatures of habit we don’t like uncertainty. as once more, we ask people in europe to work from home, to limit social contacts, to close businesses, it is our job as policymakers not just to ensure we ride out this storm together, we also need to give people perspective. we need to provide people with the certainty that we will pull europe out of this health and economic crisis. how do we do this, commissioner? by focusing on what we can do and on what we know, and by focusing on the silver linings. so what can we do? when a teacher is brutally murdered, we can stand up for free speech and fight against external illiberal threats! when journalists are threatened, we can defend the free press and bring the perpetrators to justice. when we see the rule of law undermined, we cannot stay quiet. actions that undermine the rule of law need to have consequences. our values are the foundation on which we have built our european house and we cannot paint over the cracks. this is something we can do. this is something we should do. and what do we know? we know that we are facing bad economic weather. but we also know that we hold the keys to new economic growth – by finishing the single market, by eliminating barriers to trade for our smes, by investing in green innovation and technologies. but the biggest unlocked potential to new growth has come to light as a result of corona. the silver lining of all of our many online meetings. we can all see that the future is digital. we see it in this house this week with the first online plenary session. to tap into this potential, we need to think globally. because the internet has no borders and if we don’t make the rules, others will. we need a geopolitical digital strategy. the commission is announcing its proposals for europe’s digital decade in january, and renew europe wants to see a solid strategy to build that digital economy. commissioner, we live in troubling times, but we have faced troubling times before. let us focus on what we do know, on what we can do, and find the silver linings together that might lead us to renewed perspectives.
mr president, today i’m not here for a ‘he said, she said’ discussion and how far which door was open and who shut it. no, our citizens and businesses, on both sides of the channel, are looking at us to be responsible, are looking at us not to play political games, and are looking at us to reach an agreement because they know that a no deal is not in anyone’s interests. we are in the middle of an economic crisis, of which we cannot see the end. the corona crisis hit our businesses hard, not only the european but the british as well. the british economy has hit its largest recession on record. so why make things worse with a hard brexit? how could that serve the interests of your - and our - citizens and businesses? how could that be in anyone’s interests? it is not. i want to thank michel barnier for his tireless efforts to try and reach an agreement. it is the responsible thing to do. but we also have to remain clear that the eu will not accept a deal at any cost. we want a fair deal. but what’s fair? that’s the million dollar question! let me tell you what is not fair. a country that wants to leave the european union, but still wants to enjoy the same rights as a member state. it was the uk that decided to leave the eu, it was the uk that decided to be a third country, and now it’s the uk government demanding that an entire economic bloc of 27 countries change its way of doing business. so, when we talk about fair, the uk government cannot expect us to sacrifice our businesses and our fishermen in order to get brexit done. this is not their choice and they cannot become collateral damage in this story. what seems fair to me is that the uk can only get access to our market of 450 million consumers if fair competition for our companies is guaranteed and our fishermen can continue to fish in british waters. time is ticking, so let’s get brexit done, but let’s get it done right because a hard brexit is not in anyone’s interest.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, freedom, peace and stability are too valuable to leave in the hands of men alone. women make up half of our society. their participation in foreign and security policy is not only a matter of representation, it is also vital for sustainable peace. unfortunately, the idea of a gender sensitive and inclusive foreign and security policy is not engrained in our societies. worse yet, our very own eu institutions lack in this. i am astonished to learn that we have still not progressed on this. our gender action plan is not implemented properly. we have a lack of gender responsive budgeting, and no gender sensitive institutional structure to reach these critical goals. how is it possible that men still hold 87% of senior management posts in the european external action service? we should be embarrassed, and as the eu we lose credibility as proponents of equal rights for men and women in europe and abroad. i have said this before and i will say this again: walk the talk. that is why we as the eu parliament call for corrective measures. we want binding political commitments for a target of 50% of women in management positions, including heads of delegation and in our common security and defence policy missions and operations. let me remind you, 2020 marks important anniversaries of the beijing declaration and the un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. this un resolution stresses the importance of women’s equal participation in the maintenance and promotion of peace and security around the globe. they know what is necessary for their own security and safety. these vital conditions contribute to an inclusive and sustainable future for all of us. as we look for alliances in the region, and internationally, it is important that our institutions at home reflect our vision for abroad, where we reach out to women who have been left behind. the future will challenge us in new and unpredictable ways and it is important we adapt to this. i urge member states in the eu to adopt a feminist foreign and security policy, leaving no one behind, as we strive for common peace and security at home and abroad. striving for equal representation means sustainable peace and security for everyone.
mr president, in the fight against climate change and environmental degradation we need everyone, and therefore i welcome the initiatives announced by the commission in the new consumer agenda on establishing the right to repair, limiting premature obsolescence and empowering the consumer for the green transition. but a truly sustainable single market should not only empower consumers, but also businesses for the green transition. we can support them by providing a regulatory framework that sets a clear direction towards climate neutrality, circularity and energy efficiency. a strong internal market shouldn’t be a place where the one best fooling consumers and externalising costs prevails. clear rules will help create an investment climate where businesses that bring sustainable alternatives to the market are rewarded, instead of being confronted with competitors that are misleading consumers with false green claims or are bringing products to the market that break shortly past the warranty deadline. consumers need to be given correct information on the lifetime and reparability of products. voluntary commitments have been tried and have not delivered. let’s take the next step and make this labelling mandatory. this will help to counter all the vague and false green claims that are thrown at consumers, and businesses with the intention of bringing durable and quality products to the markets will be grateful. too many broken products with valuable raw materials inside of them end up in drawers. we need to be serious about tackling premature obsolescence. providing evidence that a practice has the sole intent to shorten the lifetime of a product will be extremely difficult and will pave the way for producers to just come up with excuses. let’s add premature obsolescence to the list of unfair trading practices. i call on you, all of you, my colleagues here today, to vote in favour of our amendments on mandatory labelling and planned obsolescence and not to water down the report, but to vote for a sustainable single market in line with our planetary boundaries.
mr president, this european parliament excels at devising solutions to non-existent problems, just to justify its own right to exist. and this proposal is along the same lines. all sorts of new regulations, obligations, labels for producers in the area of 'sustainability'. the result is that producers face heavier administrative burdens which will of course be passed on to the end users. but contrary to what is believed here in brussels, our consumers and businesses are well placed to contribute to a clean economy on their own. consumers are thanks to information technology better informed than ever, they are becoming more critical and environmental considerations are increasingly part of their purchasing behaviour. smart producers are playing this. for decades, the innovative capacity within our single market has led to cleaner, better and more sustainable products, sometimes with a little help from the regulatory side, but more often not. let a facilitative role be the starting point of policy. as a european parliament, do not get behind the wheel yourself. above all, let us educate people to consume responsibly and to be economical with our earth and our resources. but leave the real solutions to a cleaner internal market to those who have already proven themselves to be very good at it: our engineers, our scientists and our entrepreneurs
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i am more positive about the result that we achieved than mr schwab, because, when facebook users were duped by the illicit data harvesting, they could not start a joint case with other eu citizens against cambridge analytica. when hundreds of thousands of consumers were defrauded by volkswagen in the dieselgate scandal, us and australian citizens could seek compensation together, but this was not the case for eu citizens. earlier this year, the european court of justice ruled that a german woman couldn’t claim compensation over faulty breast implants because the company that made them was only liable in france. and today marks an end to all that. our new rules mean that you can join with other people from your own country and from across europe to fight for collective compensation. consumers that have suffered harm will no longer have to wait years because different legal actions are ongoing, but instead benefit from one single procedure. that’s a major step forward. i’m also pleased that scarce resources won’t prevent justice for consumers. we are encouraging public funding for consumer organisations and calling for the cost of access to justice to be reduced. in spite of fierce lobbying and resistance from national and industry interests, if your rights as a passenger on a train or plane are violated, for instance in the case of delays or poor service, you can start a collective lawsuit too. so today we are taking a crucial step, but of course there is more work to do. in the long run, i think that collective redress should be available to all victims of harm at the hands of eu companies, whether or not those victims are eu citizens. i think that, in the future, collective redress should also be available to citizens, regardless of whether they are consumers or not, because why can someone who owns a volkswagen seek compensation, but not someone who owns a bike and is forced to inhale diesel fumes at every traffic light? and i’m speaking from experience here. but those are all questions for the future. for now, i want to warmly thank the rapporteur and our negotiation team for good cooperation and for our excellent result. this new law will enhance consumer protection, improve access to justice and hold companies to account where needed.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, unfortunately, it sometimes happens that your flight is cancelled, that you are forced to make extra purchases within your mobile phone subscription, or that you buy a car that emits far more co2 than is legally permitted. we've all been duped consumers at one time or another, but what do you do when the producer or the seller doesn't respond to you? how do you get it right? going to court alone isn't just gonna get you in a lot of trouble. it also takes time, and you often have less than the original damage. but most of the time, you're not alone. and that matters, because research shows that nearly 80% of consumers would be more likely to take legal action if they could do so with other consumers in the same situation. that is why the new directive on representative actions is good news. whether it is the misuse of your personal data, negligent financial services or unsafe products, consumers will soon be able to be represented by the consumers' union or another organisation in each member state and jointly file a claim with a company that has caused them harm. after 30 years of debate, this is a major win not only for consumers, but also for businesses. although most european companies are of course very careful to comply with the european consumer rules, these new rules are also a good back door for companies that do not take them so seriously. it therefore improves the level playing field in europe. in addition, we have developed a number of requirements for those wishing to start a business to avoid abuse of this type of business. the directive is thus a win-win that directly contributes to the position of consumers and businesses. this will make it easier for all consumers in europe to obtain compensation for their damage, regardless of the member state in which they live, and will help to combat unfair competition. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation.
mr president, respect for fundamental rights is under threat, especially in times of crisis and especially regarding minorities. we often address the discrimination and violations regarding the lgbti community and ethnic minorities, and we rightly do so. but we should also take a strong stance towards the grave violations at our external borders – people who are not our inhabitants but who are under our control and depend on our rules and behaviour. we know the situation on the greek islands, for instance. people are held there in deplorable circumstances and i think that we should share this responsibility. other people, who try to reach our territory, try to find their way to protection, are treated without dignity, denied access to an asylum procedure, and pushed back to third countries without getting information or any individual assessment on their need for protection. let me be clear: this is not by accident. this is by systematic behaviour and even policies – greece, turkey; poland, belarus; spain, morocco; hungary, serbia – and in some countries – croatia – they even face torture, humiliation and sexual abuse. it’s important that the rapporteur, in her famous explanatory statement, describes these circumstances. although frontex must monitor and promote respect for fundamental rights at the border, we recently learnt that this agency is complicit in pushbacks. silence is implicitly approving these violations. the commission must .... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, numerous treaties, resolutions and plans are dedicated to improving the fundamental rights of people in europe, and although these plans are often ambitious, the implementation lacks true conviction, and as a result, not enough progress has been made to secure the fundamental rights in europe. in fact, a serious backlash against women’s and lgbti rights has ensued, with anti-gender movements trying to limit sexual and reproductive health and rights. and the covid crisis has not been helping at all. according to a fundamental rights agency report, nearly 17 million women in the eu experienced either physical or sexual violence over the period of 12 months preceding the survey. those numbers are absolutely unacceptable, and we must begin to realise that gender-based violence is both the consequence and one of the causes of persisting gender inequalities. unfortunately, some member states are champions in maintaining these fundamental inequalities between men and women, and as long as member states promote campaigns against the istanbul convention, and as long as the council blocks directives on equal treatment of women on boards, i am afraid progress will remain limited. we need firmer action and shared commitment if we want to make a difference in the years ahead.
madam president, welcome to this perch, three peace agreements signed in six weeks between israel and arab countries. the sequence is historical, the word is not overstated. the united arab emirates, bahrain and sudan are therefore seizing the hand extended by israel to establish security, prosperity and, eventually, peace in the region. and this bet, this hope, must continue, must continue this virtuous domino effect. we are already seeing tremors in lebanon, oman, kuwait and, of course, in saudi arabia, where benjamin netanyahu may or may not have been this weekend, but we know that he has spoken with crown prince ben salman. agreements in three dimensions: political, economic and social, with a reality already on the ground: direct shipping lines between haifa and jebel ali, near dubai, the first plans for an oil pipeline between eilat and ashkelon to transport emirati oil to europe, the exchange of good practices, especially environmental ones, the issue of desalination of water to face shared challenges together, all this while some 30 weekly flights already circle the skies between tel aviv, abu dhabi and dubai. the abraham accords are a response to those who advocate hatred and boycott. it's a reversal of logic, a change of paradigm. to get around the conditions, the blockages, the bidding to build peace with the palestinians, but not only with them first. in conclusion, to quote the uae prime minister, this is a new impetus for the two-state solution. this opportunity must be seized by the palestinians, who have returned to the negotiating table - and this is good news - and by the israelis, who must keep their promises and effectively end the annexations in the west bank.
madam president, the abraham accords will no doubt have some consequences for the middle east. but the key question is what effects they will have on the israeli-palestinian conflict, which greatly affects stability in the whole region. and i am afraid they won’t be positive. in a moment when there is no real peace deal in sight, and when the harsh reality of the occupation of palestinian territories intensifies, this move might be another incentive for israel not to really engage in a lasting solution to the conflict. for the truth is, israel consolidates ties with some arab nations without making compromises on the palestinian front. and if it were true that preventing the formal annexation of the west bank was the counterpart of the agreement, well, let’s remember that there is a de facto annexation with grave consequences on the daily lives of many palestinians and which hinders the possibility of a settlement based on the two-states solution. and to conclude, it is not that the eu should disregard these new developments in the region, it’s rather about taking them as an opportunity to re—engage with the israeli-palestinian conflict in a more vocal and active way. hopefully, we can do that with the new biden administration.
mr president, the abraham accords make one thing very clear, namely that europe is not playing any significant role in the peace process at the moment. after all, it was the united states that pulled the cart. and what does the eu do? continue to unilaterally criticize israel. many member states go so far as to deny israel the right to continue to call the temple mount simply the temple mount. my own country, the netherlands, is also involved. i say this with a proxy of shame. the one-sided criticism really needs to change. get your little ringing finger off me! let us take a closer look at the complex situation in which israel finds itself. and let us make it clear to the palestinian authority that it is now their turn to recognize israel's right to exist and to come to the negotiating table. and then great things could happen, both for the jews and for the palestinians and for the whole region. mr borrell, do you agree that it would be nice if the eu did play a serious role in this?
madam president, the next council meeting is decisive for the future of the rule of law in the eu. mr orbán and mr morawiecki threaten to block eur 1 800 billion meant for our citizens, for our climate and for our economies, to protect their own corrupt and autocratic agendas. we hear rumours that the german presidency is seriously considering finding a compromise with those two member states, but that would be a historical mistake. giving in now would send a message that the eu gives in to blackmail and that it’s possible to violate the essential values and rules of the european treaties and enjoy impunity. now is not the time to focus on poland or hungary. we know the game that they’ve been playing for so long. it is instead time for the council to admit that it has inflicted this crisis upon itself. member states neglected the rule of law crisis for years and continuously prioritised other interests over the protection of our fundamental values. if the council seriously wants to end the rule of law crisis in the eu, it must have the courage now to keep its legs stiff. enough is enough. council presidency member states, european citizens are counting on you. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this morning in this house, many of us made clear that if hungary can continue to violate the rules and the values of our treaty and enjoy impunity, breaches of the rule of law will spread throughout the european union. hungary is even actively promoting this. there’s evidence that hungary is buying media outlets in slovenia and north macedonia and in this way contributing to the limitation and violation of freedom of expression, freedom of media and even freedom of elections. i would like to know what the commission is going to do about this. does it address this issue with hungary? what concrete measures does it take towards slovenia – either more investigation or measures really to ensure that there is no backsliding in slovenia on this issue? how can we better protect north macedonia against this harmful interference? this example shows exactly the importance of a swift start to the negotiations and talks with north macedonia, as has been promised now for a very long time. i call upon bulgaria to lift its obstruction and let these start, and also on the council presidency to increase the pressure on bulgaria to do so.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, a woman’s right to make decisions about her body is hers and hers only to have. this is about self-determination as a fundamental right. today polish women are left with no other option than going to neighbouring countries to undergo a safe and legal abortion, and the polish women who can’t afford to go abroad face even worse prospects. i see this as a move backwards in time, and as women, we have to prove that we have the right to self-determination time and time again. we are held accountable for how we dress, and the decisions we make about our own bodies and so on, and even when we get to sit at the table, the focus is on our appearance, our capabilities often neglected. to the women in poland, i would like to say: we are standing right next to you and we will join you in this battle till the very end. we won’t back down, and we in the european parliament will not let you fight this battle alone. what is happening in poland regards all of us – your backlash is our backlash; when you struggle we feel your pain. we hear you, we see you, and we will fight with you. and this is not where this ends. we need to have a clear call to action. together with my colleagues from renew europe and our other allies, we demand that eu funding to the polish government is cut if they fail to respect the rule of law. secondly, we will continue to support civil society movements in poland in their fight for women’s rights. last but not least, we demand that the commission works on guaranteeing universal access to sexual-reproductive health services, including abortion, and for these rights to be included in the next eu health strategy.
madam president, first i would like to compliment the european commission for publishing their first ever lgbtiq equality strategy. i am happy to see that this commission finally puts lgbtiq rights high on the agenda and is now presenting concrete plans to improve lgbtiq rights throughout europe. and, may i say, not a moment too soon, as we are still witnessing many lgbtiq persons dealing with discrimination simply because of who they are and whom they love. we have heard about the awful attacks on pride marches and have seen the growing number of lgbti-free zones, and within europe we still have these unimaginable treatments such as conversion therapy and barbaric forced sterilisation. and can anyone tell me how we can allow people losing their parental rights over their own child by crossing a border within the european union? how do we rhyme the denial of parental rights of rainbow families with our european values? we simply cannot allow for these practices to go on any longer. everybody should have the right to be who they are and love whom they want and to decide what happens to their own bodies. this lgbtiq strategy is a good first step, but as a member of the european parliament, i like plans – but what i like even better is action. so let’s get to work, commission. let’s get this done.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we all agree that our health is one of the greatest goods we have. this year, we stayed at home collectively to ensure no one’s health would be jeopardised. as a society, we have evolved to foster our public health by producing treatments such as vaccines, and we have managed to eradicate many diseases from the face of the earth. but it seems as if the progress made is now being stalled by the greed of the shareholders of the big pharmaceutical companies because, in a profit—driven pharmaceutical industry, treatments for rare diseases won’t bring enough profit and, if medicines can be sold for a higher price in one member state, we apparently accept that medicines are not available for the people who need them elsewhere. and, when there is a pandemic, we don’t get a patent pool because that goes against the interest of big corporations. this is not what the european health union should look like, and i’m glad that in the pharmaceutical strategy the commission acknowledges this. but how, then, does the commission delay real action for change? hasn’t the commission faced the problem of a too powerful and profit—driven pharmaceutical industry first hand when negotiating for the covid vaccine in the past year? we need to start to change now. we call upon the commission to step up against the abuses of dominant positions in the pharmaceutical sector, to demand transparency on development costs as part of the requirements for public subsidies, and to update intellectual property rules to better reflect innovation. only then can we truly say that we put patients over profits and ensure accessible medicines for all european citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, ‘the growth of the euro-atlantic community has turned out to be one of the greatest forces in human history for advancing peace, prosperity, security and democracy.’ this is a direct quote of vice-president biden back in 2014 and i couldn’t agree with him more. so let’s put these great words into action and let’s rebuild our transatlantic relationship, a relationship based on our common values and objectives, with a united states that believes in multilateralism and wants to tackle global challenges together. a united states that wishes to preserve rules-based trade and fight climate change. the tariff reduction deal or the so-called ‘lobster deal’ that we are discussing today is a positive step towards these better transatlantic trade relations. it is the first deal of its kind between the european union and the united states for 20 years, and even though the scope is limited i believe it is a strong political signal from our side that we want to do business with our american friends. but like any friendship we should also be frank with each other. so let us be very clear that the times of punitive tariffs are over. we have been turning the other cheek for too long. i hope we can stop the additional tariffs on each other’s products and that the new administration also understands that there is no sense in punishing our gouda cheese, meat or wine producers, which in turn forces us to hit american cheddar, ketchup and chocolate producers with the same tariffs. in conclusion, this tariff reduction deal that we are voting on here today is important. instead of introducing new tariffs we are removing them. it is high time for a constructive approach. we now have the possibility to strengthen our transatlantic trade relationship for the benefit of our citizens and our businesses. i invite the new biden administration to join us in these ambitions.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first i would like to congratulate all the people behind the minority safepack initiative on its success. this initiative received over one million signatures from europeans across the europe union and is the fifth most successful european citizens’ initiative to date. the eci instrument gives european citizens the unique opportunity to achieve an active part in the political process. the subject of this initiative is close to the heart of renew europe and to me personally. i am of moroccan descent but was born and raised in friesland, a province in the north of the netherlands with its own identity and language. being frisian means being proud of the history and cultural heritage of this part of the netherlands. next to dutch, i also learned the frisian language at school, and it is important that we keep teaching it to preserve this part of our cultural wealth. and i believe it’s one of the core values of our union that we have respect for cultural and linguistic diversity and protect the rights of minorities in the eu. more than 50 million europeans belong to traditional minorities and language groups. it’s our duty as the european union to play an active role in protecting and promoting, and celebrating the diversity in, traditions and languages throughout the european union. so commissioner, let me ask you: how will you give a follow-up to this initiative and its proposals? how are you going to promote, protect and celebrate the cultural and linguistic diversity of our union? i hope we as the european parliament will be behind this initiative and give full support to the one million signatures and all european citizens belonging to a traditional or language minority. and allow me, madam president, to say: tige tank! that means: thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to thank ms deparnay-grunenberg, our rapporteur. in the green deal, it’s so important that we make trains the best alternative to short-distance flying in europe. so modernisation of our railway system is key in the shift towards sustainable mobility. what are the two most important steps then? one, we need the network of night trains to be reactivated between our european cities. and second, rail is not only important to connect people or goods from rotterdam or hamburg; connectivity of people is so important, even more important in all of our european regions, and therefore it’s important that we invest in our regions, and that we invest in cross-border connectivity. that’s why i am really glad with this upcoming european year of rail and this is a great opportunity to achieve this connectivity. so let’s do this.
i am speaking tonight from the hague, from our office at the inner court. just now, our prime minister announced new measures to deal with the coronavirus crisis, about 100 meters away. it was a firm and necessary measure, but it was extremely difficult for people at home and also for our catering industry, our retailers and our smes. while not everyone is affected equally, many of our smes are now facing life-changing challenges, and this despite the fact that the coronavirus crisis has already shown us that smes are indispensable. these entrepreneurs, including self-employed people, innovative start-ups, and family businesses, create jobs, create innovative products, and ultimately all contribute to our economic recovery. and like everyone else, i hope we get over the coronavirus crisis as quickly as possible. we will therefore work from europe to improve access to finance, reduce regulatory burdens and secure data sharing. in this way, we help our smes to survive the current crisis so that they can continue to grow and innovate.
mr president, we have waited a long time for the sme strategy. businesses have had a tough year, and the pandemic has brought to our attention what they've been crying out for for years. the new european budget and the emergency recovery fund offer a huge amount of resources to restore the economy and also to finance research, innovation and industrial transformation. this is a huge opportunity and it is important that this information reaches smes. however, access to funding should not be limited by size and the possibility to apply for funding should not be complex or administratively burdensome. our report is clear about what member states should do not add additional administrative burden. instead, simplify procedures as much as possible and make the most of the opportunities of digitisation. and most importantly, to treat business people fairly. this year, european programmes supported a large number of smaller businesses that were forced by the pandemic to reawaken their entrepreneurial spirit and talent and to come up with innovative solutions or to bring something new to the market that was needed at the time. programmes such as horizon europe or digital europe must reflect this and lend a helping hand to ambitious start-ups as well as established companies. as a shadow rapporteur, i had a clear vision in working on this report to set concrete and measurable targets and to regularly assess each year whether we were meeting them and whether the business environment was actually improving. i am therefore pleased that the report includes my proposal for the annual 'state of the union address for smes'. only by accountability and discussion can we move forward and really ensure that these companies are the focus of our attention that they deserve.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they earn the money which is spent in brussels with great ease and often in a thoughtless manner. for too long, smes have not been given the recognition they deserve in brussels. pressure from regulation and insufficient access to capital frustrate entrepreneurship. this is probably because smes are not lobbyists. they are real entrepreneurs, men and women of the workplace. they do not have a shortcut on their telephone to get in touch with mrs von der leyen or the office of frans timmermans, as do the multinationals of this world. but fair is fair: the proposal we have been given is very valid. we, as the european parliament, give the commission two clear tasks. first of all: the commission should come up with binding proposals to reduce the regulatory and administrative burden on smes. secondly: a binding sme test to assess the costs and benefits of legislative proposals to smes, including the economic impact and the impact on their employees. it is true that the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises must be defended every day in this house. i will continue to fight that fight. these are proposals to get us home. we're almost done with 2020. i wish you all, and in particular our smes, after all the adversity of this year, a merry christmas and a good and healthy 2021.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am happy to introduce the implementation report on the return directive, which includes the position of a large majority in our parliament, and this is important as the return directive is a salient topic which can easily lead to division and even polarisation. our common position is that we need a solid basis of facts and findings in order to draw conclusions on how member states apply the directive and if this application meets the objectives of the directive. the more salient a policy area is, the more we need an evidence-based policy. we therefore deplore the lack of a recent evaluation, which the commission is obliged to undertake every three years, but its last report dates back to 2014. as we have to judge and negotiate on a recast proposal with fundamental amendments on the current returns directive, this omission is not responsible. this has led the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to decide to undertake a study ourselves on the implementation of the return directive, and that study has led to this report. the objective of the return directive is twofold. on the one hand, it promotes the return of migrants who are not entitled to stay on our territory and, on the other hand, it ensures that this return goes hand in hand with legal safeguards in line with fundamental rights, and that enforcement measures are applied in a proportionate manner. this also means that implementation cannot be properly assessed by only looking at the return rates. we also need to see if the return is sustainable and if the legal safeguards have been complied with. i will just go through some highlights of the report. one is that voluntary returns should be prioritised over forced returns as they are more sustainable, less costly and less cumbersome for the states, and more apt to respect the fundamental rights of the person concerned. this requires that we have sufficient voluntary departure terms, but also sufficient assistance and return programmes. we found a big lack of this in many member states. the directive requires that decisions concerning return are based on an individual assessment and are open to appeal. legal safeguards imply that the return may never lead to refoulement and that the return is automatically suspended as long as an appeal is still under the examination of a judge. in many member states, however, this is still not the case. detention must remain a measure of last resort, meaning that it has to be necessary, proportionate and for the shortest time possible. longer detention does not automatically increase the chance of return. it is generally more costly than alternatives to detention. the report therefore calls on member states, as a matter of urgency, to offer effective community—based alternatives to detention. many member states do have alternatives in their legislation, but they have often made it unavailable in practice. according to our charter of fundamental rights, the best interests of the child should always be a primary consideration. a significant number of children, however, are still detained in the european union as part of return procedures. this implementation report expresses agreement with the un committee on the rights of the child, which has clarified that children should never be detained for immigration purposes and that detention can never be justified in a child’s best interest. as the report highlights several gaps in the implementation of the return directive, we call on the member states to make sure that they do comply, and we call on the commission to ensure timely and proper monitoring and support for its implementation, and to enforce compliance if necessary. after all, the commission is our only guardian of the treaty.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the continuation of the current rules is right and good true to the motto old rules fresh money. finally, our farmers have legal and planning security for the next two years. the fact that the money from the structural funds has been included in the transitional regulation and is available as early as 2021 is also an important signal to european agriculture. the sector has made sure that we all have enough food on the table during the corona crisis. that we are not taking for granted that we are slipping from a global health crisis into a food crisis, new figures from the world food organization show. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are not forced to pay for the damage they have caused. the food security and the re-establishment of their farm structures can be at the heart of their work. i would like to thank all my colleagues, and in particular mrs katainen and mr de castro, for their excellent work in getting this transitional regulation through and for its timely entry into force.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank mrs katainen and the whole negotiating team, in which i am present on behalf of my group, and the technicians who have accompanied us, on behalf of my group and on behalf of my group. i really think we've done a great job for the end result. the political agreement reached after the trilogues offers european farmers and livestock farmers, for the years 2021 and 2022, guarantees of application of the current cap rules and, therefore, they will continue to receive direct support from the first pillar and will continue to receive rural development programmes from the second pillar, which are very important elements for the legal certainty of this support. there are several essential elements which we have put forward in the european parliament to deal with this transitional period. and i really believe that we have made improvements since parliament. firstly, from the outset, parliament understood that the time needed for this transition was two years - not one, as the commission said - in order to be able to close the debate on the reform and properly carry out the development of the new strategic plans, giving legal security to this transition. secondly, we condition our final support on the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework. that is why we are in this last plenary session. because we did not want to adopt the transitional regulation without the multiannual financial framework having been approved and we did not want to accept, first of all, the commission's proposal for budgetary measures. new proposals have also been incorporated into this regulation throughout the process, as a legal instrument: the covid measures to address the situation created by the pandemic, the extension of rural development aid, the measures on wine plantation rights, which allow the hffos to continue with their operational programmes without changing them if not necessary, or the part of the next generation programme funds for rural development, to which my colleague paolo de castro has referred, and which i congratulate. there are also some issues which we have defended, such as the advancement of a measure of the cap reform, which is self-regulation of the olive oil sector, and of course not accepting the cut in the ... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. fellow workers! first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that parliament, the commission and the council have managed to negotiate a transitional arrangement for the agricultural funds for two years. in this way, european farmers will enjoy a longer period of stability and legal certainty, and will be able to function in the familiar administrative and financial realities. i am convinced that the member states will also make good use of this two-year period by preparing sound strategic plans, in consultation with their farmers, which will create the conditions for the development of european agriculture in the years to come. we owe it to european farmers to create these good conditions for growth. after all, they have provided food security to nearly 500 million consumers during the difficult pandemic, and they want to continue to do so. i would also like to express the hope that in the next multiannual budget we will finally get to the point where rural infrastructure is built with regional development funds rather than the second pillar of the cap. finally, i would like to thank commissioner wojciechowski for his personal commitment to the recovery fund, which has raised almost eur 8 billion for european agriculture and will be delivered to farmers over the next two years.
before i give the floor to mr bompard, i should like to open the first round of voting today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 11.00 to 12.15. the same voting procedure as in the previous round of voting shall apply. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 12.15. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 2.45 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mrs katainen (a9-0101/2020).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the transitional regulation is a legislative instrument which is necessary to ensure the continuity of the cap and, at the same time, to prevent major imbalances in the agricultural sector. farmers need certainty for their investments and this regulation provides them with the tools they need for a smooth transition to the new common agricultural policy. at the same time, the regulation provides farmers with the necessary funding to cope with the current problems caused by the pandemic, thus preserving their capacity to produce quality food at affordable prices for consumers. an important aspect is to ensure flexibility between the two pillars, which allows member states to transfer between funds for direct payments and funds for rural development. although the commission did not initially include the continuation of transitional national aid in its proposal, we succeeded in adding this form of support to the regulation. eight member states use this aid mechanism to help ensure the sustainability of farmers. i would point out that the support through the ntas is provided by the member states concerned and does not create additional burdens for the budget of the european union. moreover, it is a form of complementary aid, which does not have the capacity to distort the single market. on the other hand, it was absolutely necessary to introduce the nap in this regulation to ensure continuity in the future cap. in the absence of a horizon on achieving full external convergence, i believe that this support should be continued in the future common agricultural policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today we are remedying a number of problems which would have been caused by the delay in the adoption of the new cap reform and we have, i believe, reached a very good agreement with the council and thus we are able to give stability to the activities of our farmers for the next two years. we also approve the next generation of eu aid for rural development. all this is a real breath of fresh air for our farmers and the whole food chain, who have managed to ensure that safe and healthy food has been on the tables of european citizens during these difficult and difficult months. the 8 billion we have managed to advance partly to next year - thanks to the work of this parliament, i want to stress this - will be an important instrument for getting the sector back on track, also in terms of respect for the environment, because at least 37% of the resources will have to be allocated to environmental measures and with an eye to young farmers with special measures dedicated to them.
president, commissioner, if there is anything that agriculture and horticulture need at the moment, it is stability and security, especially in these uncertain times. the fact that we are extending the current agricultural policy for two years is therefore a very good thing. the additional resources in the second pillar will be available as early as 2021 and 2022 and we will pay extra attention to young farmers. what's in front is a good package. i wholeheartedly agree. but i would like to broaden the subject today because i see that the commission is leaving some opportunities, particularly in the first pillar, at the moment. i am referring to the various crisis instruments within market and price policy, which the commission made little use of in 2020 despite the major problems on the market. i would therefore ask the commissioner: should we not make more active use of the special market measures in the first pillar, especially in view of the uncertainties surrounding brexit and the corona problem? in this corona crisis, farmers are once again showing that we can count on them for our food production. they must be able to count on us too!
madam president, the eu is a union of and for the citizens. they have entrusted the institutions to protect their rights against discrimination, arbitrariness and abuse of power, but the institutions do not deliver. the council doesn’t apply article 7, member states don’t speak up. we therefore supported the commission proposal to link the budget with the rule of law. it would place the commission in the driver’s seat as a guardian of our core values. now the council has tried to hijack the instrument and control the enforcement. it’s good to hear your firm statement of this morning, ms von der leyen, but your written statement connected to the conclusions are the opposite. therefore, could you confirm that the commission will trigger the mechanism if the criteria are met, even if an annulment procedure is still pending? i don’t mean interpreting, monitoring, or covering – but really undertaking action before we have an ecj judgment? being the guardian of the treaties comes with heavy responsibilities. our citizens count on you.
madam president, we will witness the historic moment shared in a profound way by this parliament and by renew europe. as of next year, european money will be linked to respect for our common values, including the rule of law. some member states see these core values of the eu as negotiable, as a bargaining chip, something to put on line to see who blinks first. let me state is very clear, they did not succeed. we stood our ground and i’m proud that because of the efforts of our group and this house, our fundamental values are now more strongly protect than before and only when our foundations are strong can we focus on getting europe out of this crisis stronger. therefore, we call on the commission to set the rule of law mechanism in motion without delay. some things needs to be renewed, but our basic common values merely need to be protected.
on behalf of the group of the european right president, commissioner, we cannot continue to trade with impunity with a country which has forced more than a million people into labour camps, sterilised women on a large scale, employed a large number of workers in cotton plantations and factories, and which, under the guise of fighting poverty, systematically monitors, infiltrates and intimidates its uyghur citizens, even into the eu member states. and that's not to mention the growing pressure on christian and other religious communities in the rest of china, or the growing repression in hong kong. this can't go on. the time for talking alone is over. recent human rights dialogues have not made any progress. china is increasingly transforming itself from a strategic partner into a systematic rival. the recently adopted magnitsky sanctions instrument should therefore be used as soon as possible against those who are complicit in this matter. the eu should no longer conclude economic agreements without hard concessions from the chinese side in the field of human rights. it's time to put the deed to the word.
madam president, the chinese government is forcing hundreds of thousands of uyghurs from xinjiang to do forced labour. chinese officials go door to door and select people for the cotton harvest. at least 570 000 people have had to undergo forced training before being sent into the cotton fields hundreds of miles away from home. eighty-five percent of all chinese cotton comes from xinjiang, and this is a fifth of the world’s cotton supply. a majority of chinese cotton ends up on the asian market, where many clothes are made that are sold right here in the european union. and that’s not all: new investigations confirm that medical masks and protective equipment made by uyghurs are sold in the eu. this is unacceptable, just like the detention camps in which more than a million uyghurs are detained. we must be able to make companies aware of their responsibility, and they must intervene when their production chain is not transparent. i urge the commission to speed up the introduction of due diligence legislation.
madam president, there are less than two weeks left until 1 january and there is still no certainty that we can agree to a deal. it would be a grave understatement to say that this situation is very unpredictable for our citizens and companies. the only certainty that they have now is that the situation will change; with or without a deal, there will be different rules and different procedures. but let’s try to keep the hurt of brexit to a minimum. the eu and the uk will both benefit from a fair deal that ensures a level playing field and fair competition and that is future-proof. i hope the negotiators are still aiming for that and that they will conclude a deal as soon as possible, so we can finally say, ‘you have done your job, now let us do ours’, so the european and uk people can finally get back to their jobs and their lives. let’s put our differences aside and focus on what unites us, because a good deal is in everyone’s interest and should form the basis for our future relationship based on shared values and appreciation.
madam president, i would like to thank vice-president šefčovič and mr barnier for their continued efforts. the uk will remain an important partner and friend of the eu. therefore the ultimate goal should always be a comprehensive agreement, reflecting our close relationship. but, the new free trade agreement must be based on reciprocity and a fair system of rules. as we head towards the last and very real brexit deadline, i cannot overstate the growing frustration in the eu. we are dealing with a lot of uncertainty caused by pressure from a strict deadline that the uk set itself. as i can see in the netherlands, exporters are already facing long queues at calais to cross the channel, and as meps we need to be able to explain to our citizens and businesses what they can expect from 1 january. therefore we need sufficient time for scrutiny in case of a deal. this is part of our responsibility toward citizens and businesses who need clarity.
