mr president, what i find regrettable is that we are trying to use this part-session, which makes it possible to change the agenda, to try, for the third time in a row, to win a vote that has already been lost on two occasions. i say this because the group of the european people's party has twice tried to bring this matter before the conference of presidents and the other groups have been told clearly what our position is. if necessary, we will repeat it again. we believe it is important to talk about the dangers of organised crime, but without necessarily criminalising a particular issue and attacking a particular city in this case. so you keep pushing. this political group will continue to take the same position.
the id group requested that the title of the commission statement on 'devastating forest fires in australia and other extreme weather events due to climate change' be changed to 'devastating forest fires in australia activation of the resceu programme'.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the nightmarish news of a continent on fire, where thousands of animals, insects and plants have gone up in smoke in a few weeks and where human life is seriously threatened, we have a collective duty to react. this reaction can be based on the european culture of solidarity, and moreover with our great friend, australia. the architecture and modalities of resceu, although theoretically reserved for member states, allow this. the idea is to send exceptional logistical and operational capabilities to fight the flames on this continent. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this amendment to the title of our statement to the commission on the devastating fires in australia.
the gue/ngl group asked for statements by the council and the commission on the excessive use of force by the police during peaceful protests and demonstrations to be added as the second item of the afternoon. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
mr. chairman, please! my dear lady! i'm saying you used the name of my country, poland. in poland, demonstrations are peaceful and are not suppressed by the police, but protected. on the question of the rule of law in france, we are in favour, but we have our own proposal and i hope that the president will allow me to put it forward on behalf of the group of the european right at the appropriate time. there's also the matter of changing the agenda on wednesday.
mr president, would it be possible to ask for a separate vote? because the proposal, as we understand it, is debate with resolution. we would be prepared to debate it, but not to have a resolution. so, if possible, we ask for a separate vote, and we would support the debate.
the ecr group asked for a commission statement on the 'rule of law in france, in particular the recent cases of violence against protesting lawyers' to be added as a second item. the debate will conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in view of the use of force against defenceless lawyers and advocates in the paris court building and the previous violent pacifications of the so-called yellow vests, i call on the epp group to call for a debate on the state of the rule of law in france. i would remind you that the right to demonstrate and express one's views is a foundation of the european union, enshrined in particular in article 12 of the charter of fundamental rights, which guarantees everyone the right to freedom of peaceful assembly. the french authorities, by using force against their own citizens and lawyers, are violating the above principles, which are also referred to in the treaty on european union and the treaty of lisbon. so let's see if the same rules and the same laws apply to large eu countries like france as they do to smaller countries where, i remind you, protests are not suppressed. is the principle of equality respected? i ask for a roll call vote so that everyone can speak out publicly on whether or not they support physical attacks on defenseless lawyers in france.
madam speaker, australia is offering us a true picture of doom. large areas hit by the most devastating fire, drought and heat in history. air pollution in canberra was measured at 25 times the legal limit. a billion animals that have died as a result of fires, that's really a picture of doom, a picture of hell. i would like to express my solidarity, of course, with the australian people, both the dead, the survivors and those who lost their homes. but at the same time, i want to hold the australian government accountable. the australian government is doing nothing to help reduce carbon in the atmosphere. at the same time, it is completely dependent on fossil fuels. australia exports a large amount of its coal. we call on the australian government to take responsibility, and join us in making the planet healthier.
mr president, contrary to what some extreme voices in this parliament are claiming, it is an undeniable fact that global warming and climate change are having an incredible effect on forest fires, which do occur annually, but are now becoming real humanitarian and natural disasters. it is therefore incredibly important that we in the european union take responsibility for the new green deal and move towards a completely carbon-free economy and society. but we can't do it alone. we need partners in that. we're in the middle of negotiating a trade agreement with australia. wouldn't it be crazy if we didn't use the power we have to get australia on the right side of history? it cannot be, there is no way that anyone who wants to be a partner in our trade policy and access to our european market would not be a partner in the fight against climate change. this means, of course, that the paris agreement must be enshrined and enforceable in future trade agreements - and therefore also in the agreement with australia - and that the content of trade policy in the future will be geared to, for example, a complete phase-out of fossil fuels. and let's start with australia, with coal. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam member, i ask you after your statement: do you not think that the european union has a bit of a split self, because on the one hand we are limiting production, imposing green certificates and high costs on our mills, on companies and we demand that they reduce co2 emissions (and good!), but on the other hand last year we imported 10 million tons of steel from brazil. we import coal into the european union from australia, from russia, which means we're adding co2 to the atmosphere by taking products from countries that don't limit co2 emissions. i'd like you to take a look at that.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm very interested in the causes of fires. of course, i understand that one of them is climate change and global warming. but i also heard that the law has changed a lot in australia, and that's that under the new fire code, a lot of the firefighting and firefighting powers have been taken over by the local government. in these local authorities, however, the greens are beginning to play a major role, and they are already playing a major role, by not allowing any interference in forest management. can you confirm this information?
madam president, the sight of the australian bush burning ferociously has horrified all of us. i was equally horrified in december 2015 when the subtropical storm desmond caused devastating floods in cumbria in my north west england constituency. whilst fire and floods are indeed natural phenomena, the scale of these extreme weather events tells us something we cannot ignore: climate change is real, and it’s affecting populations everywhere. like many of you, i remember a shocking documentary showing polar bears marooned on melting ice flows. i also remember populist media pundits and right-wing politicians, including ukip meps, denying the existence of global warming. with ukip transformed into the brexit party, and their members now joining the conservatives, we should all worry about the uk government’s commitment to the environment. and can i suggest colleagues check out the campaign group desmog, whose excellent research about the powerful climate-sceptic networks influencing the tory party exposes boris johnson’s personal links with rich and wealthy climate science-denying individuals and organisations?
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to show my appreciation for this important debate, even though this first plenary debate after the end-of-year break has been very dramatic. but i really do appreciate the wealth of information and all the aspects you covered in this discussion. as i said at the beginning, i believe that, after this debate, we can say that we as europeans clearly send our support and our solidarity to australia. as highlighted by madam šojdrová, it’s very important that this message is also spread across europe, namely that we are ready to help, especially any country in such dramatic distress. at the same time, many of you highlighted the fact that what’s happening in australia is just the consequence of global climate change, that this situation was caused by us humans, and that we need a global effort to take care of it. the interventions by ms bentele, ms dalli and mr bijoux appealed to us in the commission – but also to our global partners – to make sure that we do this collectively and that we will have that consistent and strong global effort. we need to make sure that the paris agreement is implemented globally by all the key powers, as mr hajšel said, and to look for ways in which we can make that important transition in europe socially fair so that we can demonstrate to other parts of the world that this is possible: that you can grow, that you can cut co2 emissions and that you can do it in a socially fair manner. i think that, if we see that the world is not respecting our pace, we will have to look for new mechanisms – as was suggested in our previous discussions – to make sure that we push other countries in that direction if they do not respond to our efforts. let’s consider mechanisms like the carbon adjustment mechanism or other measures to make sure that other industries in parts of the world outside europe will also try to produce as cleanly as we do in the european union. i think that this discussion has also just reminded us of the fact that we in europe have also not been spared the dramas and tragedies brought by climate change. let’s just look back at some of the dramatic events which honourable members have reminded us about – the tragic fires in portugal, sweden and greece – and let’s be sure that we will not relent in making sure that our readiness and preparedness gets much better every single year to come. we need to simply make sure that we will improve the existing wildfire and forest management strategy, complement the fire suppression strategies with increased awareness, preparedness and prevention, and combine these short—term measures with long-term adaptations, which is so important, especially for forest management. the eu strategy on adaptation, which was adopted in 2013, was aimed exactly at that: to make sure that we would enhance our preparedness and resilience to the current and future impact on climate change, especially by the climate proofing of key vulnerable sectors such as those that i have already mentioned. all this would come under the new umbrella of the new ambitious strategy, which will be the flagship project of this commission and, i believe, of this house. this will be the european green deal. mr knotek referred to the copernicus programme and i’m very glad to say that, yes, we are the biggest provider of this data, of the imagery which is very often key for fighting fires from california to australia. we are, of course, going to develop that further and invest in early warning systems, such as the european forest fire information system, which are critical for managing the crisis, as we are discussing today. we have improved our civil protection capacities, but we know that we need to do more. i would agree with ms müller and mr kokkalis that we have to permanently look for ways in which we can make it better, make it more fireproof and be properly prepared for all contingencies which might head in our direction in the future. to conclude, i would like to say that the best response we could give to this crisis is to be very focused and very determined in introducing the european green deal and demonstrating to other parts of the world that it’s possible to do it. we know how to do it and we are ready to share our experience, and of course in all that we would count on the support of this house – of you, of the european parliament.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – even though fire has been an elemental part of australia environment, the scope of current blazes is unprecedented. scientists agree that climate change has contributed to australia’s emergency. they are also in no doubt that one of the leading causes of global warming is animal agriculture since industrial breeding of animals is responsible for huge co2 emissions, contamination of water and air. in the face of these events, the eu must urgently revise the planned trade deal with australia. there are valid concerns that this deal will have negative impacts on climate change. a draft final report for the trade sustainability impact assessment published on 13 december warns us that greenhouse gasses emissions are expected to increase, as a result of increased production in australia and in the eu. such increase will come from the production of meat – mainly beef and sheep meat. this trade deal aims to liberalise current meat tariffs. as a result, australia will produce more meat further contributing to climate change. the eu wants to be a global leader that sets the environmental agenda. we are now witnessing a real crisis and the eu must bring its trading standards in line with our climate ambitions.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ten years of such a trivial subject, but of such tremendous importance to the citizens of the european union, is a disgrace to our work, to the work of the european commission. the universal charger is no longer just about making life easier for eu citizens, but also about meeting the expectations of users and consumers and our shared responsibility towards the environment. at the moment, consumers are obliged to buy a new charger with every new device they buy. the introduction of a regulation to address this issue will bring convenience to the user, but most importantly will reduce waste in the form of electronic devices, which is estimated to be 51,000 tonnes per year in the european union. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of undertakings in the electronic communications sector in the preparation of the electronic communications market. this solution should also take into account the recent trend of moving away from traditional chargers towards wireless chargers, which will significantly reduce the environmental footprint and increase the safety of users, such as drivers and passengers. today, that means looking at and working with charger and portable radio manufacturers, but also other industries.
madam president, the problem is not just with cell phone chargers. in several commonly used products, the manufacturer introduces features which make them incompatible with products of other brands and render them obsolete earlier than the technology and materials available would allow. the costs of this incompatibility, and above all the costs of planned obsolescence, are enormous for consumers and for nature. any strategy to combat climate change, and any strategy to reduce the impact of human activities on nature, must respond to this problem in a consistent way. rules for the design and dismantling of products are needed which, in addition to ensuring compatibility where justified, allow for the purchase and replacement of components and parts in addition to software and hardware updates. a mandatory extended minimum guarantee is also required. is the european commission available for these measures?
madam president, i will continue what the pre-reader has said here and turn again to the vice-president of the commission, because he hears the appeal from left to right that we do not want to wait another ten years and then talk about the common charger again in ten years. i think what may have been a problem in 2014 is no longer just a matter of consumer convenience, but it's really the unnecessary waste, the thousands of tons of e-waste that is being generated. and if we are serious about the green deal for europe, then when else than now to say that this is the right innovation, the green innovation. if anyone is afraid that a common charger might reduce the chances of new innovation, that's nonsense. the common charger should be the best innovation.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we expect vigorous action to be taken to introduce a universal charger. this is a necessary idea that has unfortunately a very long history, a history of ten years. we expect it to be implemented not only for environmental reasons, but also because it will bring real savings to the pocket of every user. the commission should not be swayed by the arguments of the large groups that the unification of chargers will hamper technological development in this field or by other excuses. i think the very high prices we have to pay for ever newer models of mobile equipment are enough to tell manufacturers: enough of the evasions in this area. and the commission has our full support.
in writing. – we have been talking in the eu about one common standard for chargers for all mobile devices for over a decade now. the voluntary agreement adopted by producers of electronic equipment back in 2009 has proven insufficient, with tech giants like apple applying their own standards in this area. what is more, europeans have been facing a situation in which they are forced to acquire different chargers for the different electronic devices they use. what is more, they are forced to buy a charger with every new item of equipment, even if they already have one which is compatible with that equipment. and that means higher prices. additionally, different standards for chargers result in the pile of electronic waste growing – currently it is 16 kilograms per year for each european. for the sake of consumer rights as well as out of ecological concerns we cannot tolerate this situation any longer. it is time the european commission proposed a standard for a common charger, which would be obligatory for all producers of electronic devices. consumers must also be given the right to purchase new electronic devices without chargers if they wish so.
madam president! recent reports show that the gender pay gap in poland is well below that in other highly developed countries. it's actually getting better and better and better. between 2000 and 2017, poland made very significant progress in improving the situation of women in the labour market. poland's position has improved, as it has jumped from nineteenth to eighth place. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the union average was 16% over the same period. the lowest level of this indicator was observed only in romania, italy, luxembourg and belgium. however, it is important to remember that the pay gap is a complex phenomenon and is the result of a combination of factors affecting the situation of women and men in the labour market. these include objective factors such as different educational background, professional experience, and occupation. let us also remember that women have the right to choose their own life, family and career. but there's still a lot of work to be done in that area.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the subject we're debating today is one of the most important. it is a theme that, one might say, is at the heart of what should be the foundation of the european union: respect for equal rights, equal rights, respect for everyone, no matter where they live, what they do, and in what part of our continent, in what part of the european union. in poland, we have successfully introduced solutions that allow us to eliminate poverty and, on the other hand, as my polish colleagues have already said, also to solve the problems of the gender pay gap. women want to work, they want to be active in their careers, but they also want to be fulfilled as mothers and have a chance to raise their children. that's why we've been giving special pensions to mothers who have raised at least four children. on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is symptomatic that in this debate today, the main speakers are women. i hope that we can all resolve this problem effectively in parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i am pleased to see that the european commission is presenting, in the first 100 days of its mandate, measures on pay transparency between men and women. despite the principle of equal pay for equal work being enshrined in the treaties, the reality is quite different, with huge disparities between member states. there is still a factor of discrimination between men and women and even a decline in the role of women in sectors of increasing importance in society, such as computer science and digital technologies. if nothing is done, we risk further restricting women's access to well-paid jobs. i ask the commission to come forward with concrete and binding measures to tackle these problems and also to have the courage to unblock the directive on women on the boards of publicly listed companies.
mr president, commissioner, the treaty of rome has been denounced and the wage gap has been fought to pay another of the great war bills. women who joined industry to replace men who died at the front were paid less, and that difference created problems in the market that was to be created. today, in the knowledge economy, equality is also a matter of fairness, but also of competitiveness. equal pay is just one more argument to attract, stimulate and retain the talent we need, talent imprisoned by prejudice, roles and inequality. so the pay gap is really taking out women, but it's impoverishing us all. ursula von der leyen has broken through a glass ceiling. she is the first woman to preside over the european commission. i hope and trust that this will lead to the union being declared, at the end of its mandate, a territory free of the wage gap. it will be fair, but also a huge competitive advantage in the global world.
i am not going to tell you what i think. today is a very important day, because regardless of gender, we're talking about addressing the pay gap that affects most countries, affects women. and this is the day when we speak with one voice, when all the arguments have been heard, when we can say that support instruments and systemic solutions are important, but it is also very important to work with entrepreneurs. i can also confirm this from my own experience as deputy minister of investment and development in the polish government, when we were discussing with entrepreneurs all sorts of solutions on the creation of collaboration tools, when the polish government developed a free tool that allows employers to assess the scale of inequality and allows you to use an app to estimate wages in a given industry, region and average salary in the european union, when we were laying the foundation for open solutions so that women could run their own businesses, we were preparing system solutions so that they could reconcile family life with working life. and i think that's the direction. but unfortunately we have to speed up in the european parliament because progress in the european union is very slow. the difference has decreased by just one percent in the last seven years.
mr president, discrimination or the gender pay gap is simply forbidden, you have to be paid the same for the same job, and yet there is a 16% difference on average. in some countries, even more, in the czech republic almost 22%. the most common reason given is the impact of motherhood and the caring role of women. i say that if we don't want motherhood and parenting to be a path to poverty, then we need to value the role of mothers and the role of parents, which means that both the state and employers need to take into account that these young parents are returning to work after their parental leave and they need to get a second chance. i would like to ask the commissioner to really look at the implementation of the work-life balance directive, because it is the start of this new approach, and i also share your call for better information and awareness-raising among women, so that they can defend themselves and be able to assert themselves. the path is appreciation of motherhood, not discrimination.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, wage disparities, gender stereotypes, segregation in the labour market - these are all inequalities that women face every day. these inequalities are transgenerational and affect both young girls and women in the labour market, they also affect and especially affect retired women and contribute to poverty among women and children. 16.3% wage gap and 39.6% overall income gap calculated on an annual basis: what a contradiction with our treaties and what a contradiction with the social europe demanded in gothenburg in 2017! our political responsibility is to respond to this serious issue, and these inequalities are indeed the result of a societal structure based on the relics of patriarchy still too often promoted by populists and conservatives. this calls for binding measures: the adoption of a directive guaranteeing transparency - i will support it as a socialist - the strengthening of the role of the social partners and collective bargaining in the fight against social inequalities and, finally, the implementation of the european framework for social rights, in particular by introducing a european minimum wage.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, are you aware that as of november 4, 2019, women have been working for free until the end of the year? it was on 4 november that we marked european equal pay day, a date that symbolizes the day when women across the european union would stop earning the same as men for the rest of the year. at the eu level, we heard, 16%. the difference in my country, it's a little lower, 13%. in other words, compared to men, women work for about two months for free each year. in most countries, women are better educated than men, yet the lower wages at the end of their working lives lead to a pension gap. as a result, women, after leaving the labour market, often face social exclusion, poverty and financial dependence on a husband or partner. we also heard something about a glass ceiling. women are not in positions of decision-making or so-called power. let me conclude with something that will likely affect even those who make important decisions. this is the result of a report by the mckinsey global institute, which calculated that global gdp could increase by $1.2 trillion a year by 2025 if women were given equal opportunities. and finally, i want to thank the male colleagues who have been discussing this. five brave men from a field of 32. well, that's something!
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the principle of equal pay for men and women has been in place since 1957. 63-year-old women have to wait for this rule to work, and they're still waiting. if we don't regulate this, then according to all the research, we'll reach equal pay for women and men in 257 years, in 2277. none of us are gonna live to see that moment. i would therefore like to say, commissioner, that there are many men in this house who are as determined as you are to break down one of the last glass ceilings between women and equality.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: homelessness is a very complex problem, it's a broader social policy problem that can't be reduced to just social assistance. it's first of all prevention, which is preventing homelessness from happening, and supporting those who are homeless and getting them out of homelessness. you spoke of the need to expand services for the homeless. i'm all for that, but i think we should also look at what causes homelessness. well, among these reasons are also living conditions, family conflict, addiction, eviction and checking out. it was about the fact that homelessness in europe is increasing, and in poland we do a survey of homelessness every two years, and in the last two years it has decreased by 9%. so it is important to create support instruments and the labour market situation. of course, the housing situation is crucial here. and i think that without outside action, without support from governments, without the right policies, it's not going to be possible to create affordable housing that's available to everyone.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we're here today to discuss an important, very important issue, which is homelessness. i think that for us as members of the european parliament, the symbol of this problem, which is not being solved and which should be a matter of conscience for all of us and for the whole of the european union, is the homeless people whom we see every day around the european parliament, also in brussels or, as my colleague said a moment ago, here in strasbourg. the migration crisis has exacerbated this problem, but we cannot sit idly by and take effective action. i wanted to draw attention to another dimension of homelessness that awaits europe: europe is ageing. this is a growing problem of family breakdown, of children's failure to care for their aging parents. these elderly people are often left in a very dramatic situation. they are removed from their homes or are unable to live anywhere. i would ask that we also pay attention to this aspect in the programmes that are being prepared, namely the elderly, who require our special attention.
although the honourable member is entitled to his opinion, i would just like to inform you that president david sassoli has not made any decision. it has only taken note of the decision of the spanish courts.
mr president, in portugal, in the last decade, we have felt particularly keenly the anti-social and anti-national character of the european union's determinations. it was the successive stability programmes and the troika programme that destroyed rights, cut workers' incomes, squandered and privatized public assets and degraded public services. it was blackmail and the threat of sanctions when the country started a path of restoration, defense and conquest of rights and income. the decisions now being taken are aimed not at limiting the budget deficit but at creating a budget surplus to feed those who profit from our debt, which is itself inseparable from the consequences of european union policies at national level. the surplus they want to impose on the portuguese workers and people is the negation of the answer that is lacking in the improvement of their living conditions and in the development of the country, a response that will not be given in full form as long as the interests of the people and the country do not prevail over the impositions of the european union and those who rule it.
mr. chairman, i would like to take this moment to congratulate the re-elected president of taiwan, tsai jing-wen, who won a clear victory in the election last saturday. four years ago, i had the opportunity to meet her at her presidential inauguration, and i understood that she was a strong woman who had truly led this country to prosperity. in relation to china, it has acted with discretion in the interest of the taiwanese people's own interests, so as not to unnecessarily provoke china. taiwan's elections are, in a sense, a celebration of democracy. the only free choice in the context of chinese civilization. they're acting in a fair manner, all within range of chinese missiles heading for the island. china has stepped up political and international pressure on taiwan in recent months, and has indicated that it does not rule out a military solution. president chai kept her cool and took some measures. the law against foreign election infiltration was passed in taiwan, just as we have experience in europe with russian election interference through disinformation, so taiwan has rich experience with chinese disinformation. i think that the european union and taiwan can join forces in this, and i congratulate them.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. in two weeks we will commemorate the victims of the upper silesia tragedy. this is the term we use to describe the repression of the silesian population, which began in silesia in january 1945 and lasted for three years. arrest, rape, imprisonment in concentration camps, and forced deportation to hard labor in the soviet union. this tragedy cost the lives of over 90,000 people just because they were silesian. the camps in świętochłowice-zgoda, mysłowice, and łambinowice are sad symbols of this tragedy. the tragedy of upper silesia has not yet become part of the general collective memory, and it should. we should teach it in schools: polish, german, czech, european. we should also provide all children in europe with lessons in regional education, because regionalism and love of one's own heimath is the best answer to blind nationalism.
in writing. i am very pleased that the croatian presidency has paid much attention to social issues. i would like the presidency to take into account the need to improve the situation of people with disabilities when dealing with such key issues as poverty eradication, increasing access to the labour market and building high-quality inclusive education systems. this group of over 100 million citizens struggles on a daily basis with barriers to access to education and employment, to mobility, to leading an independent, active life as far as possible. preparing teachers and trainers to support the full development of children and young people with disabilities is crucial for their future social and professional lives, and i hope that this will be taken into account in the council conclusions on teachers and trainers for the future of europe. i also welcome the presidency's declaration on the demographic challenge. the growing population of older citizens in europe requires a multi-dimensional strategy covering both the promotion of occupational and social activity, mobility, good health and access to services and healthcare, and the fight against all forms of age discrimination. i am also convinced that the croatian presidency will be an advocate of a strong, ambitious cohesion policy for the coming years. i also hope that the determination of the presidency will help to send a positive signal on the future integration of the western balkan countries into the european union.
mr rowland, i think that is a ‘no’.
ms ritchie, mr rowland is requesting a question to you. will you accept?
i am sorry, mr rowland, but you have been refused again.
it’s another ‘no’. i’m sure it’s not personal, but the lady says ‘no’.
madam president, whether we like the first-past-the-post system or not, that is the system in the united kingdom, and with the motto ‘get brexit done’, boris johnson won an overwhelming majority. brexit will be done in 17 days’ time. no country will regret it more than my country, ireland. we have a shared history, we are very close neighbours, we get on better now than ever before, and we have very close economic ties. so i would like to thank all the meps from the united kingdom who’ve been great friends of ours for many, many years in the european parliament. reality, though, must be accepted by everybody, so we must move on now to the next stage and it should be about ‘get the free trade agreement (fta) done’. that means goodwill on all sides, and as guy verhofstadt said, unless citizens’ rights are properly addressed, it is hard to see how parliament could accept an fta. so that means that we sit down in a mature way, forget about the sound bites and get the fta done properly. that will bring results.
madam president, i and millions of british and european citizens are about to have many of our rights ripped away from us as a result of a highly flawed poor—quality democratic process subject to foreign interference, misinformation and even illegality that saw a shameful narrowing of the franchise worthy of a tin-pot dictatorship rather than a mature western democracy. this means that the three groups of people who are most impacted by brexit had no say in their future. i’m speaking of all the young people whose lives will be limited in opportunity, not to mention the child refugees that the conservatives refused to consider. then there’s millions of eu27 citizens who live, study, work and pay into the tax economy in the uk, and british citizens in the eu, including the elderly, who may find themselves isolated, without healthcare and social protection. we can never legislate for the changing complexities of individual family life. this is a future windrush waiting to happen. and finally, a word about freedom of movement. as things stand, it looks as if a tin of meat will have more rights than a human being as it crosses the border between the eu and the uk, so shame on the brexiteers for reducing us to dead meat.
madam, mr rowland would like to ask you a question. will you accept?
madam president, i see no purpose in giving these people any right to speak here when they don’t turn up to the committees to do their actual job of work. let’s see them in the committees first. let’s see them actually earning their money, rather than being in here spreading hate and division. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from robert rowland )
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i would ask mr barnier not to be guided by the emotions that are on the left and the right of this house when he is discussing the uk government. if we had to write the treaty on the uk's exit from the european union based on the emotions that are here and the unnecessary words that are being used, then the million of my countrymen that you mentioned, mr. liberace, the poles who are building the economic power of england today, would not want to return. for me as a representative of the polish government, when i spoke many times with my partners in the uk, there was no greater satisfaction than to hear from my compatriots who have the right to practice various professions, not only cooks, but also police officers: "we want to return to poland". but we know that not only this million and a half of my countrymen, but also millions of other eu citizens in the uk will remain. and that's why you should be guided by common sense and calmness, not by bad emotions. and finally, i just wanted to tell mr. verhofstadt that prince harry and princess megan have chosen canada over the european union.
madam president, the withdrawal agreement reached between the european union and the united kingdom is not our concern as regards the rights of citizens of the member states living, working and studying in the united kingdom, and of citizens of the united kingdom living and working in the member states, whether they are doing so now, in some cases for many years, or are planning to do so in the future. the transitional application of the acquis of the european union is not our concern because the acquis of the european union itself is insufficient in terms of these rights. we remember well the interpretation and clarification given to mr cameron, the british prime minister at the time, at the time of the referendum. we therefore believe that there is a need to deepen and improve safeguards in relation to workers' rights and other social rights, including the right of residence, the right to non-discriminatory treatment, the right of access to public services, health and education, the portability of social security benefits, the right to family reunification and the mutual recognition of academic and professional qualifications, to name just a few examples, both in the context of the discussion which will continue between the european union and the united kingdom and in the context of the necessary discussion and bilateral negotiations between each of the member states and the united kingdom to establish a framework for mutually beneficial future bilateral relations.
head of the task force for relations with the united kingdom. madam president, minister brnjac, ladies and gentlemen, i have always spoken the truth to this house and beyond about the innumerable consequences of brexit in all areas. you can give me proof of this truth and we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that among all the reasons for brexit, the reasons which motivated the brexiteers themselves, there are two fundamental ones. first, regain the capacity to disagree on the social, environmental and fiscal rules that are at the very heart of the european single market as an ecosystem. secondly, as was very clearly stated earlier, the abolition of freedom of movement for men and women has been at the heart of the european project from the outset. this is the will we have to face and this has far-reaching consequences for the future. this has been said by several of you and we will talk about it in future negotiations with concrete consequences, concerning the various deletions, from the end of the transitional period, on 31 december this year, in terms of the economy, professional qualifications or installation capacity in the field of security. no one on either side - i mean both sides, ladies and gentlemen - should underestimate the direct consequences of the suppression of freedom of movement, which is at the heart of brexit. this is for the future negotiation which will begin at the beginning of march. for now, we are talking about citizens' rights, which have been the priority of your parliament and of the european negotiator who is speaking to you, and i want to thank you for that. this has also been the priority of all the member states you represent. i too would like to thank guy verhofstadt and all your colleagues for this extremely clear resolution, which is being tabled to you tomorrow, and which expresses your vigilance and solidarity with all the citizens directly affected by the consequences of brexit. i think that guy verhofstadt will be able to rely on this vote, which i hope will be as clear as possible, in the talks he will have in london this week. as president ursula von der leyen said earlier, citizens need certainty about their future and the future of their families. they need to know what brexit means to them in their daily lives. objectively, i think that the withdrawal agreement you have on your table provides these certainties for british citizens established in one of the 27 member states and the rights they will have acquired before the end of the transition period, that is to say before the end of the year which has just begun. they will be able to continue to live their lives as before in their country of residence and this is obviously the case for the nearly three and a half million european citizens who are established in the united kingdom and who contribute to the uk's economy and progress. all these citizens must be able to continue to live, study, work, receive benefits or bring their families with them for the rest of their lives. this is what is in the treaty and we are talking about a treaty with all the legal force attached to it, from the moment it is ratified by both sides. we must now ensure that these rights are properly implemented and we will not accept any half-measures or any form of disguised discrimination. since it is my responsibility and that of my team to ensure, under the authority of the president of the commission and the commissioners, that this withdrawal agreement is properly implemented after it has been ratified, i would of course have to come to parliament as often as you would like, ladies and gentlemen, to report to parliament on the progress of the proper implementation of this treaty. we will continue to defend the interests of our citizens, and in this regard i would like to thank the 27 embassies of our member states in london for their commitment and for working with the commission to provide help and advice. so we will continue to defend the interests of our citizens. and we will do everything in our power to ensure the full implementation of the withdrawal agreement. the commission will do its utmost to ensure that the rights of one million british citizens living in the 27 member states are guaranteed, that each and every one of them is properly informed and supported and we will watch closely to ensure that the uk government does the same for the 3.5 million eu citizens residing in the uk. indeed, the early implementation of the eu settlement scheme by the uk has already led to the identification of a series of concerns, raised in particular by citizens' organisations, but also today by many of you. as the personal case of emmanuelle mentioned by caroline voaden of this house. the commission will be particularly alert to eu citizens encountering difficulties in obtaining the new residents status. we expect the uk to help eu citizens meet administrative requirements, as well as to accept requests failing to meet the deadline for good reasons. we are already in regular contact with our uk counterparts on these issues. and i have had a number of constructive exchanges with stephen barclay, the uk secretary of state for exiting the eu on this matter. i have, and i will continue to insist in particular on the importance of the uk putting in place a strong independent monitoring authority, mentioned by claude moraes a few minutes ago, an authority that must be able to act quickly and fairly when faced with complaints from union citizens and their family. let me just conclude with a few words on the bigger picture regarding this agreement which has now been approved by the house of commons and will be submitted to you for your approval on 29 january. in addition to citizens' rights, there are many, many other topics where we must remain vigilant included in this withdrawal agreement. and i am thinking in particular about the protocol on ireland and northern ireland, which guarantees an integrated single market but also preserves the whole island economy and prevents the return of a hard border. i just want to say that the implementation of this protocol provides for checks and controls for goods entering the island of ireland. i look forward to constructive cooperation with the uk authorities to ensure that all the provisions set out in this agreement are respected and made operational. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, while we might welcome that we are soon to move to another, more positive, step in the brexit process, we will have to remain vigilant as regards the preservation of citizens’ rights, be it during the transition period or under any future relationship with the united kingdom. the vigilance will rely on careful monitoring of how part two of the withdrawal agreement will be implemented in the united kingdom, as well as in the eu—27 member states, so that the life choices made by citizens and their family members on the basis of free movement are protected. we will therefore count on your cooperation in this respect as well. thank you very much once again for your attention.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 january 2020. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it's a really hard time for all of us. after 47 years, the united kingdom is leaving its european family as a result of a decision based on populism, political games and misinformation of citizens. the uk's decision to leave the eu - in such a chaotic and unregulated fashion - will affect the lives of both the 2.37 million european citizens living in the british isles and the 1.2 million britons living in eu countries. for them, the months and even years ahead are marked by uncertainty and fear about the future. there are also over a million poles in the uk, so i feel a moral obligation to ask about their fate. people deserve concrete assurances that their rights will be protected. the eu settlement system should take account of people who are not proficient in the use of digital tools. the system of 'preliminary settlement' should be declaratory in nature and provide for the appropriate verification of the decision by an independent body. finally, a uniform format for the document confirming the right to reside in the united kingdom will be crucial to increase legal certainty for eu citizens. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu cannot mean the end of the ties. for the sake of our citizens, we all have to ensure that the relationship between the united kingdom and the union remains coherent and that the border remains untouched despite brexit.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the sustainable investment plan, just transition and the action plan for a social europe (2019/3014 ((rsp)).
madam president! and the very important issue in the green transition is the employment problem, the worker problem, the human cost, the social impact of these changes. the plan presented by the commission has very little space for those workers who are at risk of losing their jobs. this problem will be particularly acute for long-term employees, i.e. those aged 50 and 60+, those with 30 or more years of work experience. it will also affect entire regions of poland. this will be the case for lower and upper silesia, lesser poland and greater poland. what does the european commission propose? how much does the just transition fund cover this? won't these workers be victims of the green order? have these social consequences been taken into account? it's not just free training, retraining and courses. that's definitely not enough. we have to talk about these risks because if it's associated with rising unemployment, job losses, the collapse of entire industries, no one will say that it's a just transformation, but a transformation that affects workers socially.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! climate change is a big and responsible thing to do. for the green order to function effectively and to achieve its objectives, we need to know what its foundations are. i therefore ask the commissioners whether the european commission has consulted or intends to consult the member states on the resources, the investment costs, the specific money they will need to make the energy transition a success without compromising the energy security of each of the countries and of europe. does the european commission know how long it will take to green the economies of individual countries, given the current availability of technologies to support this process? in poland, we estimate that the additional costs of the transformation will be on average between 2,6% and 4,3% of gdp between 2020 and 2050. that's more than 500 billion euros. this is 1.7 to 2.3 times higher than the eu average. remember that in poland we also have the silesian region, which is associated with the mining sector, and in this sector and around it, 200,000 people work. the cost of creating one job in this sector is €250,000. these data come from academic centers in the region. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i did not dispute this in my speech, noting that climate care is a great and responsible task. to do this, we need to stand up for the truth, to do the right analysis, to respond rationally to climate challenges and concerns, with people and jobs in mind. so i'm not saying that i'm against the programme, but i would like us as europe, which wants to be the world leader in climate, to be the real leader, not just talk about having a good plan, good assumptions.
madam president! commissioner, i don't know if you've noticed, but even your supporters say "yes, but". they say "but" because the plan presented is very superficial. it's not enough to say "we want", we promise. especially since the trust in the commission has already been strained, because after all, all the countries agreed in 2014 to strive for a 40% reduction in emissions, and all these targets that were presented to the commission, we are about to throw them away. but i have very specific questions about these superficial numbers, because some of them escape logic, mathematics, and certainly economics. where's the $7.5 billion in new money coming from? we should introduce new taxes. if so, what is it? how do we get from the 7.5 billion to the 100 billion promised by the commission? if new investments, what are they? i need to know exactly what you're doing. if we are to raise almost €300 billion from private investors, how does the commission intend to do this? and finally, the question: when will we have a new climate law? there are less than 60 days left.
madam president! for a number of member states, coal and gas remain the only energy carriers on the path to climate neutrality. i would remind you that the paris agreement is based on the principle of using own resources to achieve the objectives of the agreement. and there is no way to maintain energy security without continuing to use fossil fuels. i would also remind you that the specific nature of poland has been confirmed by the president of the european commission. that is why we are calling above all for technological and time flexibility in achieving climate neutrality. for us, climate neutrality will not actually be possible until 2070. and now for a very important example. experts say that rigid climate policies will lead to a massive blackout in europe as early as 2050. in the event of a direct threat to the vital interests of states and citizens, is it not justified to continue to use coal as a stable fuel to ensure energy security and, consequently, to invest in the modernisation of coal-fired power stations? polish coal-fired power stations are already saving german citizens from the consequences of reduced wind power generation. ladies and gentlemen! in our quest for climate neutrality, let us be responsible, fair and above all honest with our citizens.
madam president, sustainable finance is the cornerstone of the european green deal. the initiative to establish the just transition fund was originally proposed by the itre committee, chairman buzek and colleagues, to reduce the socio-economic impact on communities negatively affected by the transition from coal to decarbonisation. as the current chair of the itre committee, i stress the importance of adequately supporting the energy, industrial and digital transition, starting with the 41 coal-dependent regions, including oltenia and the jiu valley in romania. we really need adequate financial resources for the transition to the production and use of renewable energy, the development of new economic models, the creation of new jobs and the retraining of existing staff. it is essential that the money in pillar 1 is new money, without affecting cohesion policy or other programmes.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome the green deal proposal and therefore also the proposal for a just transition fund very much. yes, we must give more and additional help to the regions affected. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first point is the question of financing. beyond the question of whether or not 7.5 billion euros for the just transition fund is enough, this cannot be old money at the expense of cohesion policy, but we need new, fresh money. we must not harm regions that need our support through the just transition fund by taking away their money. i wish all of us a good negotiation of the new mff, because what the member states are proposing at the moment is still inferior to the commission's proposal. secondly, we need to change and adapt the aid law, because even larger companies must prepare for this transition and we do not want to support the unemployed first, but to open up new prospects for the employed beforehand.
madam president! fellow workers! we are making a major, world-first commitment to climate neutrality by 2050. this also entails raising the climate ambition set for 2030. such a shift will entail a profound transformation of the entire economy, not just the energy transition, and therefore far-reaching social and economic consequences. it is therefore essential that this transformation be fair. this was discussed during the last ets reform and is now being implemented. we therefore welcome the establishment of the just transition fund and mechanism. the fund should be targeted primarily at those countries and regions facing the greatest challenges in the energy transition and which will bear the greatest costs in proportion to their gdp. it is a good thing that the commission's proposal for a fund is receiving more funding than parliament proposed. we believe that the just transition fund will be a success and this is just the beginning, and in the future the funds will be increased in proportion to the needs. i therefore call for the fund to be given priority if new measures are introduced, such as revenue from coal tariffs or charges for access to the common market.
mr. chairman, please! in the trilogy on taxonomy, we managed to leave the door open for the gas and the atom, this final adjustment. unfortunately, these activities will only be temporary. that's what it says. so i have a question for the commissioners: how do you understand this transience for gas and atom? i am a little encouraged by what the head of the eib said yesterday, because he said that there would be no such axe over these investments that are under way, but i would also like to hear your opinion on this because i think it is important. i know that gas is not climate neutral, but it is a reliable source of energy and we should think positively about it.
president, commissioners, the green deal is a huge challenge. everyone is asking for more money, but i would like to propose that we make it a revenue model so that in the near future we can make the green deal a european export product that can be profitable for the european economy. promoting a healthy lifestyle is of great importance. half the population of europe is 50+ and the other half is very keen to become one. it would be good to promote a healthy lifestyle, for example by reducing vat to zero on fresh european fruit and vegetables and not just organic and by eating less meat, but european meat. secondly, it would be good to reduce traffic flows, for example commuting, and i ask the commission to come up with technical means to make that possible. it would be a very good example if this parliament allowed members to attend this sitting from brussels, which would reduce the need for us to drive up and down and thus set a good example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transition to a neutral economy is certainly something that we, the european union, have undertaken with the paris agreement. but i am glad that the proposal came from parliament and the commission took it up, to have a transition fund. use the word fair. obviously we don't know much and i hope, mr timmermans, that you will come with clarifications, because we had the experience of the juncker fund, where the criteria were not the best and the funds were concentrated in a few states that had the administrative capacity to write the projects. we really need to have investment and we need to take into account that investment in low-carbon energy sources is not discriminated against and then decarbonisation in the energy system helps decarbonisation in other areas and that's why i think we need impact studies, as was said. i would like to conclude by saying that in all our decisions we must not forget and take into account the context of each individual country and that the energy mix is provided for in the treaty as subsidiarity.
we expect more than 50 initiatives from the commission in the near future as the green deal progresses, so that we will have a debate on this subject every plenary week, where we can then bring up the various aspects in the speeches. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, very briefly, if we do not limit the increase in temperature to 1.5 degrees, we are no longer masters of our own destiny. things will get out of control, we will reach tipping points and the effects for humanity will be disastrous. if we do not shape the fourth industrial revolution that is happening right now at breakneck speed, others will shape it for us and i believe that some will be big winners, but many will lose out. so that’s the writing that we see on the wall. if you see writing on the wall, you can react in three ways. you can just ignore it and continue as is – as some seem to advocate here – you can be afraid and hide under the bed – which i would not advocate – or you can start acting. this is what the commission is doing with the green deal. this is what we are doing with the just transition fund. to those who say it’s not enough, you’re right, it isn’t. more efforts will be necessary. but it is a first step in the right direction and any journey starts with a first step. we will start discussing the elements with you in the next months and years so that we get it right. i want to explicitly thank president buzek for having made this proposal. it’s his idea and we worked on this, and i say this on the day – and he will allow me to say this – that i want just to recall that, exactly one year ago, a courageous mayor, paweł adamowicz, my friend, was murdered. he stood for something i believe in, which is freedom, openness and dialogue. i really would like just to mention his name here today because he deserves that and we should never forget him. let me end on one thing. yes, as it was said, i am a grandson of coal miners. that’s right. but i also know the writing is on the wall for coal. there is no future in coal and, if you want to ignore that reality, you can continue subsidising mines for years and years to come, at great expense, but how are you then going to explain to people who suffer from bad air quality that more than 400 000 people in europe die prematurely because of bad air quality and you do nothing? do you really believe that our children and grandchildren are looking forward to a job in a coal mine? i think they’re looking forward to other jobs and the just transition fund should help bring about those other jobs in those regions that in the future will no longer be coal regions. this is the very idea of what we’re doing and ignoring the writing on the wall – as you do – is not an option. nor will the british government do that and i’m absolutely sure that in the future the european union and the british government will be working hand in hand to make the green deal happen.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i’d like to thank everyone for this lively and inspiring debate. i think it shows that we share the same goal, the same sense of urgency, and the same aspiration for the economic transformations we are facing to be just and inclusive. our target is set. now we need to work together towards a green and socially sustainable european economy. but we cannot do this alone. we can steer the policy but we need to bring european citizens and businesses along with us. we have the funding to move forward and to make sure that everybody can stay on board. we have enabling rules to guide us through this transition and we have the technical assistance to ensure that there is a strong pipeline of sustainable projects. coming back to some of the questions which were raised in today’s debate, there were many questions raised on the overall impact of this green transition on the european economy and whether a sustainable european investment fund and the just transition mechanism are enough to deal with this. first of all, i would like to emphasise that our studies are actually showing a moderately positive impact on the economy from transition to the carbon—neutral economy. yes, there will be jobs which will disappear like the ones in the coal industry, but the green economy will be creating many new jobs. so our task is to take this opportunity, but, at the same time, support the people and regions most affected. that’s why we have the just transition mechanism and the just transition fund, and yes, that’s exactly what the commission proposed. this was also a question which was raised a number of times. we proposed the just transition fund as fresh money, so eur 7.5 billion on top of the current mff proposal. we believe we have everything we need to reach our goal, so let’s work together to make this a reality.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i represent the lodz region, where the bełchatów power plant is located. it's the world's largest coal-fired power plant that generates electricity from brown coal. however, it is also the largest emitter of carbon dioxide in poland. but i would not like our partners to see my country only through the lens of the 'commission of europe'. i therefore took it with great indignation that my country's government was not going to take all the measures envisaged in the european green deal proposed by the commission. we hear from many european leaders that only countries that are active in the green deal will have access to the just transition fund. why does the pis government want to take money for the restructuring of plants like bełchatów or numerous mines in silesia? why doesn't he want to give the poles fresh air? however, if the pis government reflects and understands that the energy transition is necessary for poles and europe, i ask the commission to allocate significant funds from this fund to the regions that need them most, namely the bolshevik and silesia regions.
mr president, i rather side with those who think that the united states was within its rights to eliminate general soleimani, who was an unashamed organiser of terror all over the region for many years. in fact, general soleimani is the embodiment of the problem that we have with iran, namely that it is both a country and a cause; a cause of spreading the 20th century’s third utopia, which is to say theocracy. this is the problem that we have with iran: while we sometimes have to deal with the regime, its nature prevents iran from becoming like a normal responsible stakeholder. the iranian people are protesting again, they would like to live in a normal country. yes, we should do whatever we can to help, but we should not exaggerate what we can do for them. because there is very little we can do, particularly when we act on a national basis. this is a high-stakes game. in the short term at least, it looks like president trump has prevailed, but it needs a united approach from all of europe and a loyal support for you, high representative, of the member states.
madam president, i say to the high representative: let me start with a note of realism: our european hand is weak in this conflict, our role is small. but if we want to take our responsibility seriously we have to stick together, and we have to coordinate well. and the coordination should be in the hands of the vice—president / high representative as it is his responsibility. we want to defend the jcpoa but at the same time, we also must push back very clearly against iranian aggression in other dimensions of its foreign policy. how can we keep the jcpoa alive? not if we don’t insist on building the instrument in support of trade exchanges (instex) and making it functional. and the commission should join instex and put capital into instex and become a partner. and the last note that i want to strike here is this: there are many dark clouds, there is one signal of hope and that’s the engagement of iranian citizens, and just recently also iraqi citizens. and i think it is our duty as the eu to show effective solidarity with them.
i have to say, madam president, i think what we are seeing here is an ego-play on both sides, and a dangerous ego-play, admittedly. both sides have essentially domestic reasons for behaving the way they do. in the united states, not even the democrats are criticizing the killing of this alleged terrorist. in iran, the regime must ensure that the people on the streets remain calm, and of course it has succeeded in doing so on the other hand with the american attack. the iranian misfortune is that they supposedly unknowingly and unintentionally shot down this passenger plane. but what do we see? in the united states, for example, trump is looking at an election coming up in november, and americans love this kind of strong hand and love this kind of actionism when it comes to terrorists. we should do the same, because terrorists are to be dealt with with a heavy hand. the iranian regime, on the other hand, needs the solidarity of its people, otherwise this undemocratic regime will not be able to survive for much longer. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. you have just spoken in connection with the shooting down of the ukrainian plane from pech. are you prepared to apologize to the civilian victims and to this house for using those words? you can't call such an act bad luck, that's extremely cynical.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. maybe you should learn to listen with meaning. because the bad luck, or, let's say, the misfortune, that's what iran claimed was an accidental launch. that's the bad luck. so please don't exploit the victims for your cheap little boy.
madam president! the situation is serious, but it is not that we have to shout arrogance and ignorance here in parliament, as we have done so far. this level of debate is not optimistic. the european union has a lot of instruments, it has a lot of capabilities, not just diplomatic capabilities, but also capabilities related to not only humanitarian aid, but also development aid. this situation shows that focusing primarily on iraq and calling for military missions, especially nato and its allies, to leave the country is, to put it mildly, very irresponsible. this country needs help and stabilization. after the war with the islamic state, it's still a very difficult situation. we have spoken a lot here in parliament, and in the previous term you spoke about the situation of the yezidis and adopted resolutions on the subject. christians are also in a difficult situation. in this situation, if there are troops who are demining the sinjar mountains, where the yezidis are supposed to return, talking about withdrawing these troops, supporting this kind of resolution, resolution, is simply not appropriate. and i also think it's a big task for the european union, because russia has a very large influence in the middle east.
in writing. the 2018 report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on human rights and democracy in the world addresses the key issues of the rule of law, equality, freedom of the media and expression, and freedom of thought, religion and belief that should be upheld across the world. we do not remember, or we still do not remember enough, that human rights are not only the guiding principle that was incorporated into all eu policies in 2012, but also the guarantee and basis for the proper functioning of states, societies and all of humanity. i therefore thank the rapporteur for including my amendments, which have paid particular attention to the problems of access to water, climate change, poverty, the situation of disabled people and the situation of migrant children. these are matters of great importance to me, and i felt it was important to stress them. at the same time, i encourage the continued hard work not only of the european parliament but also of the organisations defending democracy and human rights and monitoring the situation in this field worldwide. there are still many problems, such as the rise of authoritarianism and the number of armed conflicts and military attacks that claim many lives and force a large number of people to relocate. it is also worth noting that climate change and its consequences are also forcing people to move, which in turn can lead to human rights violations.
the question asked by raising the blue card. the 1992 maastricht treaty provided for a citizens' union. why has this noble goal been eluded for so many years? perhaps you could give me one reason.
madam president, the conference on the future of europe comes at the best possible moment. in the last quarter of a century, the world has changed significantly. the economy, technology, communications and the share of power in global relations – all that is new. dangerous climate change and the demographic explosion in many regions create an urgent need to act. europe must adapt itself to the new reality, and europeans have to understand this situation. the conference can and should diagnose the problems and prescribe the remedies. the basic condition of success is unprecedentedly broad participation of the citizens of the eu. conferences, agoras, consultations – all that is necessary, but it is not sufficient. we should make full use of communication online. i believe that the best way is to have pan-european consultative referenda with the participation of millions of people. it would strengthen democracy, make the people active citizens and give them satisfaction from having had a say.
madam president! i would like to start by saying that since the beginning of this debate, since 9 o'clock this morning, i have been here and i have listened to all the voices, and i have accepted all the voices with respect, some with amusement. what amused me the most? and your statement - i'm speaking to the left here - how important the votes of the citizens of the european union are to you. what are the facts? the person who got the most votes from all of us here in the direct election was the former prime minister of the polish government, mrs. beata szydlo. it was your decision, the decision of your political families that i didn't become the chairman of the committee. another of my colleagues, professor krasnodębski, was not appointed vice-president of the european parliament as a representative of the ecr group by your decision. that was funny. i was also amused to hear that the future of europe depends on the decisions on the leading candidates for president of the commission or whether mr verhofstadt will preside over this conference. the founding fathers' names were written on it. one of them said: 'the future of europe is like this...'. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i also do not support the persistent willingness of the european union to teach all the others how to behave in the field of human rights. we will have the right to be a teacher only when becoming champions, not self—declared human-rights defenders. but nevertheless, i voted in favour of this resolution by reason of just one paragraph: very important and mentioning that the problem of mass statelessness must be solved by 2024, not only outside but also within the european union. and mass statelessness is a huge problem for my country, latvia: every tenth resident of latvia is stateless, deprived of a number of rights, including the right to vote in local elections (we recommend this for those who will stay in the uk and in the european union after brexit). these people were declared to be stateless just by reason of origin, despite the fact that the majority of them are local natives. by the way, in this resolution, the reason for discrimination by origin is not mentioned, and it is a shame.
madam president, i have supported this report. i personally consider the human rights agenda to be an important eu agenda. and i think it's good that we're not just doing it in the eu countries, but we're doing it all over the world. i supported the report, but i have one comment. in order to avoid it being an empty document, a mere word on paper, the european commission should take this report as a basis and incorporate its conclusions into its daily foreign policy. and i'm very much in favor of really taking into account the human rights situation in those countries that we give certain benefits, benefits, economic aid to. because if we provide economic support and aid to countries that are knowingly and flagrantly violating human rights, then the reports we write here are meaningless and remain only on paper.
madam president, i supported this report, and i believe it is right that the european union should build its defence and foreign policy on multilateralism, on nato, which is undoubtedly our main guarantor of security. nato will continue to play a leading role, most member states are part of nato. i had some reservations about the part concerning the role of the european parliament, which should strengthen its role as the third pillar of this policy. i think we should respect the leadership in this area, the role, say, of the member states and the council. however, it is good that the european parliament has adopted this position on defence policy.
the next item is the topical debate on the distortion of european history and the commemoration of the second world war (2019/3016 ((rsp)). i would inform the members that there will be no requested speeches in this debate, nor will there be any blue card questions.
representative of ppe group. – madam president, this debate is not about history. it’s about our future, because neglecting historical facts means ignoring the future. more than 40 million deaths in world war ii remind us ‘never again’. to start this war was the most terrible crime in history. nazi germany started the war and caused terrible crimes against humanity. every german politician has to assume the responsibility of our country. but every politician, inside and outside of europe, also has the responsibility not to play with history. i cannot – and we, as the epp – cannot accept putin’s attempt to rewrite history. to be clear, the soviet union was attacked by nazi germany. russia suffered tremendously during world war ii, but to be clear, the hitler—stalin pact was an agreement between two devils, two terrible dictators. the hitler—stalin pact was the beginning of a raid on several european countries: poland, finland, estonia, lithuania, latvia and romania. the hitler—stalin pact meant, for millions of european citizens in large parts of europe, decades of oppression, fear, suffering and dictatorship. the hitler—stalin pact was a crime against peace, freedom and democracy. more than 80 years after this treaty, we, as the european parliament, clearly say ‘never again’. today’s eu and today’s nato are the children of liberty, democracy and freedom for central and eastern europe. we stand as one for solidarity in europe. we remember history to safeguard our common future. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to discuss an important topic indeed. i have heard and i acknowledge the concerns voiced by mr weber, and i’m aware of the statement referred to and of the reaction by the polish authorities. i would like to use this opportunity to express my sympathy for all world war ii victims. it is important to remember europe’s past if we want to build its future. the topic of today’s discussion thus prompts a reflection on how europe can learn from history and especially from one of its darkest chapters. as highlighted also by the european parliament’s resolution of september last year, the authoritarian and totalitarian regimes which emerged across europe in the last century remain a dark chapter in our continent’s history. the second world war led to unprecedented levels of human suffering, both for the militaries and for civilian populations. ten of millions of victims were deported, tortured, murdered under totalitarian regimes in europe. remembrance of the wars that ravaged europe and its people should always prevent us from overlooking these horrors. for this reason, it is essential to find ways to strengthen our common values and the general principles on which the european union is founded: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. fortunately, most of the younger generations in europe have not suffered under totalitarian regimes. yet there is now a risk that we are taking these common values and principles for granted. europe’s tragic past should continue to serve as moral and political inspiration to face the challenges of today’s world. the common values that have enabled the longest period of peace in europe must remain a cornerstone of our democratic society and need to be safely guarded and constantly nurtured. the experience of the two world wars taught us not to focus on differences but to create a common space to live, study and work. most european societies have been learning over several generations the value of inclusiveness and tolerance. despite these positive developments, europe, unfortunately, did witness war, conflict and destruction in the 1990s, and here i speak of my home country’s direct experience, still quite fresh in our memory. however, this is an additional reason why we should all deeply respect the peace and security that the eu project has brought to our continent and why we should continue promoting its achievements outside its borders. today our societies are facing different kinds of challenges: xenophobia, nationalism, populism, disinformation or violent radicalisation, just to name a few. these very complex issues cannot be solved with simplistic, quick-fix solutions. the union must be vigilant and ready to fight propaganda which promises such solutions. not only can these promises never be fulfilled, they also discredit our democratic institutions and authorities. they seek to divide our societies into us and them, friends and enemies. this undermines democratic and open political debate. radicalisation and violent extremism gain ground. we all need to step up our efforts to prevent intolerance, racism and xenophobia. madam president, honourable members, i would like to conclude by stressing that our societies need to remember their own history in order to learn from the past and not repeat the mistakes for which they might have been responsible.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you and the honourable members for this debate. our collective history and how we commemorate and share it is fundamentally important for europe’s present and future. as the now—famous quotation goes ‘everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but not his own facts’. the commission’s role here is to talk about the facts. the european commission fully rejects any false claims that attempt to distort the history of the second world war or paint the victims, like poland, as perpetrators. the commission will not tolerate these attacks on poland and stands in full solidarity with poland and the polish people. the eu evolved out of the ashes of the second world war and the holocaust and, in the context of the cold war, these memories are the foundation of the european project and our responsibility for the future. these historical facts are not open for debate. the hitler-stalin pact, signed by the foreign ministers of nazi germany, ribbentrop, and the soviet union, molotov, on 23 august 1939, paved the way for the second world war. the nazi-soviet alliance enabled the attack on poland by nazi germany on 1 september 1939 and, subsequently, soviet troops on 17 september. these events marked the beginning of the second world war and these are the facts. we also must recall the occupation of the baltic countries and bessarabia, events hard to imagine without the existence of the treaty dividing the continent by a zone of influence of the evil regimes. we must highlight the horrors committed by both regimes without equating them – in particular, the unimaginable tragedy of the organised genocide by nazi germany, the holocaust, which consumed the lives of millions of jews, and other atrocities that cost the lives of millions of poles, roma and many other nationalities. yes, history is complicated and we cannot forget about the role that the soviet soldiers played in the crucial part of the war when stalin and hitler became enemies. it is a fact that soviet soldiers were first to push out the german soldiers from central and eastern europe after immense sacrifices by the peoples of the soviet union. it is a fact that they played a key role in liberating the nazi concentration camp in occupied poland, auschwitz-birkenau. we will commemorate the 75th anniversary of this event on 27 january. even after the war, many people from central and eastern europe continued for decades to suffer under the totalitarian rule of communist regimes, regimes that were often installed without support and against the will of the local population. the european union has established 23 august as the official day of the memory of the millions of victims of totalitarian regimes. the commission is committed to contributing, in line with its responsibilities, to the promotion of the memory of crimes committed by totalitarian regimes in europe and the commission encourages the member states to consider the possibility of adhering to this europe-wide day in the light of their own history. it is our duty to preserve the names of the millions persecuted and keep their memories alive and also to study diligently the root causes and behaviour of the totalitarian regimes, especially because today, 81 years after the opening of this dark chapter in european history, our common values of human dignity, fundamental rights, rule of law and democracy are challenged again by extremists, nationalists and divisive rhetoric and actions. we have to recognise those facts to understand our own history and build a better future. the dream of the european union was formed right after the war, with the clear aim to create new, strong foundations for long-lasting peace in europe. this is why it is important for europe to be very clear on these matters. distortion of historical facts is a threat to our democratic societies and must be challenged wherever possible. organised and targeted dissemination of distortions and disinformation is something we have to oppose and reject. i myself will work under my mission to strengthen the european democracy to allow us to live in freedom from these threats. honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group the president of the court of justice! on 8 may this year, europe will be celebrating the 75th anniversary of the end of the second world war. the victory was the result of the combined efforts of the united states, britain, france, and the soviet union. the kremlin would love to claim this victory as its own, but is prevented from doing so by the fact that in 1939 the ussr agreed with nazi germany to divide europe, which freed hitler's hands to attack poland, conquering western europe, leaving britain alone to fight the aggressor. in fact, from september 1, 1939, to june 22, 1941, stalin was an ally of hitler, making the soviet union partly responsible for starting world war ii. and putin's attempts to distort these historical facts cannot erase this truth from history, just as the sacrifice, suffering and suffering of the people who saw the war cannot be erased from history. we must always remember that in europe. thank you.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i take up a phrase from you, mrs jourová: 'no one has the right to his own facts' and after all we have heard, i would like to underline this phrase twice. i would like to remind you why we are here. the nucleus of the european union, the beginning of cooperation between the peoples of europe, was the ecsc treaty. the treaty of rome, which was originally nothing more than the creation of a free trade area for coal and steel, was concluded by the parties in the firm conviction that trade and cooperation with each other and the building of common institutions would promote peace. the success of this model is shown by the fact that we are not just talking about coal and steel here, but about much more. but if we want to prevent the right to own facts, we need a european public. you can't decide that, you have to do something about it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are not subject to restrictions, and that the media are not subject to restrictions.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, dealing with the past is always a very delicate matter. it may seem delicate, it is often laborious, but it is indispensable. and i think that jean kahn, who was the founder of the european observatory on racism and xenophobia, could have told us something about it. unfortunately, he's left us in the meantime. he had been in charge of making the inventory of all the aberrations that are still contained in history textbooks today - this was rather in the late 90s - and one of the biggest aberrations was a quote in an austrian history textbook claiming that austria had been the first victim of the third reich: a story to be read while standing. this is what happens when you don't deal with the issues of the past and when you don't have the courage to address them. indeed, many people are participating in misinformation and in the distortion of historical facts, either by ignoring irrefutable historical evidence or by refusing to refer to or name it. the second case is even worse than the first. there may be extenuating circumstances to explain the stupidity, but bad faith is unacceptable. what can we do about the deniers? what can we do against the memory killers, as pierre vidal-naquet calls them? i think there is one thing we can do, even if it does not have an immediate effect: since the witnesses and survivors have almost all left us, we will have to replace the duty of memory with a duty of history. and i would like to end by giving an example from which we can draw inspiration: the federal republic of germany, the version of the old bundesländer, had the courage to face its past, and this federal republic of germany did so courageously, without concealing anything from history textbooks and the public media. in the new bundesländer this was not the case. if you look at the afd's results today, i believe that the efforts invested in learning history are not in vain.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i want to thank commissioner jourová for having poland’s back in this public discussion. recently, we have been having an increasing number of historical debates, and it’s not easy dealing with these topics. it’s not our role and it’s not our responsibility to exonerate anybody from their historical record. historical truth is not at the disposal of the powerful, nor at the disposal even of parliamentary majorities, but we must defend the facts as we best know them. that also applies to soviet aggression, to soviet suffering and to the role of appeasement in the run—up to the second world war. but when a victim is being turned into the perpetrator of a crime, we have to speak up, and if a wolf cries wolf, we should call it out. i believe that these kinds of conversations are rarely just about the past. shifting historical blame can easily be a first step in the direction of identifying a target for more than just rhetorical aggression. europe should beware.
however, i must now remind you to some extent of the length of the speeches and perhaps once again that in these topical debates there is no general acceptance of blue card questions and no allowance for speeches outside the agenda. it is not about that, but about the fact that this is a topical debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i wholeheartedly thank all of you for adopting the september resolution on common remembrance, which is a very balanced and factual one. since the very beginning, both parties to the hitler—stalin pact used lies, smear campaigns and cheating to discredit their opponents and victims. well after advancing the holocaust, hitler accused jews of waging the second world war. months after committing a war crime on more than 20 000 polish members of the elite in katyn and elsewhere, stalin informed polish generals sikorski and anders that they had been released and had escaped to manchuria. later, during the negotiations for ending the second world war in potsdam, there was yet another war crime perpetrated against poles and lithuanians: the so—called augustów roundup. unfortunately, in his smear campaign against poland and other countries, president putin uses exactly the same methods as both parties to the hitler—stalin pact. moreover, he is engaged in glorifying stalin’s activity and using it as contemporary policy. we have to raise this issue.
for the group madam president, the second world war was the greatest failure of mankind. the crash of the new york stock exchange brought problems not only to banks and manufacturers but, more important, to tens of millions of people who were drowning in poverty and hunger, grasping at any straw that might give them hope of a better life. in europe, unfortunately, it was fascism and nazism. while the fascists in italy and spain and the nazis in berlin were shouting glory to their bloodthirsty dictators, czechoslovakia was betrayed in munich by its own allies. europe failed to see through the violations of the treaties, did not help the anti-fascists in spain and sold czechoslovakia to the nazis. the punishment for these failures were, for example, auschwitz, dachau, theresienstadt, lidice. millions dead and a continent destroyed. it's fashionable these days to confuse cause and effect. let's not ride that wave and rewrite history accordingly. let us honor those who have fallen so that we may live here today. the criminal must remain a criminal and the liberator a liberator.
madam president! i'm from poland. as the initiator of this debate, i would like to thank the parliament and all the political groups very warmly on behalf of polish society for their solidarity, because we really need this solidarity. i would like to thank the european council and the commissioner for a very clear and strong voice, because we have to be together when attempts are made to falsify history, because that is not allowed. but this is not a debate about history, this is a debate about the european union, about our community, about security, because those politicians who want to accept totalitarianism, whether it's stalinism or nazism, they want to build authoritarian governments themselves and in the same way use force to the detriment of millions, because so many victims were brought by these fires in the last century to the europeans. a politician who disregards history and who accepts totalitarianism cannot call himself a european and we must all stand together in solidarity and give a strong resistance and a strong voice against such tendencies.
madam president! when the congress of people's deputies of the soviet union condemned the ribbentrop-molotov pact 30 years ago - a pact that stalin in a telegram to ribbentrop described as "a blood-cemented friendship between our two countries" - it seemed that this chapter of history was closed. today, an attempt is being made to revise those assessments, including falsifying the historical truth with regard to poland. my country's participation in the fight against hitler cannot be questioned. the poles did not cooperate with the germans in any sense, they fought them on all fronts, organized a strong resistance movement and an underground administration. they also suffered the greatest losses. the latest insinuations coming from moscow that the concentration camps in poland were built not by chance, but because the social climate was favorable, are a scandalous manifestation of ill will and arrogance. poland had the largest jewish community in europe before the war, and this was crucial to the third reich. he was responsible for the establishment of numerous nazi german death camps. the emerging attempts to falsify history and the memory of the second world war require strong opposition.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. president vladimir putin's recent attempts to rewrite the history of world war ii are not surprising. but we must be vigilant. poland, along with other countries of central and eastern europe, is a witness and victim of nazism and communism. the alliance of these dictatorial regimes has caused tens of millions of victims and material losses on an unimaginable scale, which is why we will continue to remind all our friends in europe that a free, peaceful and prosperous european union is only possible thanks to the liberation of states, first from the black plague and then from the red plague. flirting with these ideologies can have unforeseen and disastrous consequences. any enthusiast of president putin must bear this in mind. a rapprochement is only possible when freedom and truth are mutually valued. otherwise, any putin enthusiast will fall into the same old red tsar trap that many generations of thinkers and politicians have fallen into. the foundation of our relations cannot be the historical policy of the russian president. it calls for complete condemnation.
madam president! the voices from both the far left and the far right show that this debate initiated by the mps of the civic platform and the polish people's party is very necessary. i, unlike some of my colleagues, am surprised that president putin has changed his mind, because when he paid homage to poland as the first country to be invaded by hitler at westerplatte, he said nothing of the sort. when he paid tribute to the murdered polish prisoners of war on 7 april 2010, he also did not blame poland. and let me remind you that adolf hitler also believed that poland started the war with a gliwice provocation, which was clearly an operation of abwehr. so i ask you, mr. president of russia, do you really want to speak with one voice with the then chancellor of germany? this is a bad idea. i think he should get off the road.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i’d like to thank the honourable members for their views. allow me to repeat, in conclusion, that if one member state were singled out in efforts to distort its historical role, the european commission would always protest and counter disinformation and fake information, while preserving freedom of the press and media pluralism. hannah arendt famously noticed ‘the ideal subject of totalitarian rule is not the convinced nazi or the convinced communist, but people for whom the distinction between fact and fiction and the distinction between true and false no longer exist’. i want to fulfil my mission to build up the resilience of our democratic systems by strongly focusing on education, plurality of media and, in particular, by keeping close to the facts and evidence. only through clear and loud action can we keep the distinction between true and false. allow me to express hope that, with the approaching a 75th anniversary of the end of the worst war in the history of humanity, we will not see the multiplication of efforts to distort history of the event and to mask victims as perpetrators.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, we need to learn a lot from our history in these times in which our common values are fragile and need to be upheld. the future of europe should be based on our common values, mutual understanding of our tradition and shared awareness of the history of europe, including totalitarianism. thank you very much once again for your attention.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. it is quite appropriate to speak of the distortions of history in a european parliament which has distinguished itself in this very field. we may have different views on the outcome of the last world war, and it is clear that totalitarianism, whatever it may be, must be condemned in the strongest terms. but it is also our duty to acknowledge, without passion or prejudice, to whom europe really owes its liberation from the nazi yoke: that is to say, to all the allied forces, to the united states and to eternal russia, which, with its 27 million dead, has paid the price of victory. as such, the resolution of 19 september 2019, a highly political and unvarnished text, does not in any way increase our institution. it has been widely commented on in russia, including by president vladimir putin himself, and has permanently jeopardized our relations with this great power, which has become an indispensable player on the international stage. historical truth is not suited to ideological disputes or our prejudices. rather, it must be the subject of debate among historians alone, far from any partisan divisions and schisms.
in writing. we recently voted for an ep resolution condemning the molotov-ribbentrop pact as the cause of the german invasion of poland and the outbreak of the second world war. we remembered the heroic struggle of the poles against two aggressive totalitarianisms - national socialism and communism. this obviously did not sit well with the kgb colonel, president vladimir putin. today we return to the battle for memory as a result of the information war that putin has launched against poland and the countries of central and eastern europe. so, i think we should ask president putin, where did german tankers train before hitler canceled the treaty of versailles and germany could have tanks? where did heinz guderian learn the art of commanding armored troops? who secured hitler's power by forbidding the communist alliance with the social democrats in 1932 even though it could have brought down the nsdap once and for all? is it not bolshevik russia, is it not stalin? israeli journalist eldad beck tells putin about his speech in jerusalem at the 5th world holocaust forum: 75 years ago, the soviet union arrested the righteous among the nations of the world, raoul wallenberg. this is something that president putin should be talking about, as well as other anti-semitic crimes committed by the soviets before, during and after world war ii. putin's lying words have brought the 'historic war' to the european parliament. perhaps we will finally see the condemnation of the crimes of the soviet union, whose heir is putin's russia.
in writing. the rewriting of history cannot and should not be a political activity. for decades, the soviet union destroyed historic buildings, controlled education systems, promoted new values through propaganda art and literature, and enforced strict censorship. by means of intimidation, she tried to control people's lives and minds. today, the kremlin, using the same methods of soviet propaganda, is rewriting history by ordering the undoing of the memorial, by controlling the people working in the universities, often by using the law enforcement that is subservient to the politicians, as in the case of the january 13th case. using all available channels, they believe that the repetition of the same ideas has destroyed them in society. so today, our reaction is especially important. do we allow the kremlin-controlled media to spread propaganda freely in the countries of the european union or not? are we opening up the way for 'cultural projects with hidden aims' and, finally, are we attending world war ii commemorations in russia and turning a blind eye when we are told that the molotov-ribbentrop pact and the division of europe was a strategically important step?
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the ongoing hearings under article 7 (1) teu concerning hungary (2019/2986 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, respect for the rule of law, a pillar of our common values, is at the very heart of our union. it directly influences the daily lives of our citizens and the environment in which our businesses operate. shortcomings in this area make our societies and our union more vulnerable, both internally and externally. the very fabric for our societies rests on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. these elements are interlinked, interdependent and mutually reinforcing. one cannot exist without the others. article 2(1) procedures are ongoing. one regarding poland, and the other regarding hungary. concerning the procedure with regard to hungary, which was triggered by the recent proposal of the european parliament in september 2018, two hearings took place last semester at the general affairs council on 16 september and 10 december 2019. the first hearing was general in scope and covered all the issues raised in the european parliament’s recent proposal. the second hearing focused on specific topics: freedom of expression, including media pluralism, academic freedom and independence of the judiciary, as laid down in the standard modalities for hearings as referred to in article 7, approved by the council. last july, the finnish presidency updated the parliament on this procedure and conveyed the parliament’s views during hungary’s first hearing. ahead of this first hearing on 4 september, together with representatives from croatia and germany, the finnish presidency also met the chair of the libe committee and rapporteur for this file. on 10 december, right before the second hearing, an informal exchange between the ministers and the european parliament took place. on that occasion, parliament had the opportunity to present its recent proposal and views on the recent developments in hungary. to conclude, during the croatian presidency, it is our intention to continue to keep the parliament regularly informed on the developments concerning the article 7 procedure regarding hungary.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for including on today’s agenda a debate on the situation in hungary. it is essential that all eu institutions contribute, within their respective roles, to upholding the rule of law in the eu. in november, president ursula von der leyen recalled in this house that the rule of law is our foundation and can never be compromised. we must ensure that it is respected and upheld everywhere, with every country treated equally. she added that we must focus on dialogue and prevention but never hesitate to take all necessary measures. as regards the situation in hungary, the commission has already explained on different occasions that it shares an important number of concerns expressed by the european parliament in its recent proposal triggering the article 7 procedure. the commission has also made very clear that, whatever position the council will be taking on the article 7 procedure, it must ensure a fair handling of the reasoned proposal put forward by the european parliament. most recently, the commission stressed this again during the hearing of hungary in the general affairs council on 10 december. let me briefly update you on developments in hungary that have occurred in a number of areas covered by the european parliament’s reasoned opinion. in the area of the rule of law, new legislation with substantial changes to the structure and functioning of the judicial system was adopted on 10 december without public consultation or consultation of the venice commission. we are assessing that legislation. on 10 september 2019, the hungarian supreme court issued a judgment declaring unlawful an order by a district court judge requesting a preliminary ruling of the court of justice. this may have an impact on the eu preliminary reference mechanism. the national judicial council is still facing difficulties in counterbalancing the power of the president of the national office for the judiciary, who is in charge of the management of the judicial system. in the area of media pluralism, last december, six international organisations of journalists and media published a report stating that, since 2010, the hungarian government has systematically dismantled media pluralism, in particular because media ownership is concentrated in the hands of the government and the media market is distorted by state advertising. and further developments raised concerns. the impact of the merger of more than 400 media outlets into one single holding has been analysed by a report published in july by the centre for media pluralism and media freedom (cmpf). this report concluded that the establishment of this merger will exacerbate the overall risk to media pluralism in hungary. the report pointed to the government decision to exempt the merger from the scrutiny of both the national competition authority and the media authority. as regards academic freedom, you will be aware that the central european university had to relocate its us-accredited academic programmes from budapest to vienna. also, a new law on the financing of research has been criticised by the national and international scientific community because it detached 15 academic research institutes from the independent hungarian academy of sciences. the commission is following closely all these developments and has already shown that it is determined to use all the instruments at its disposal to address the concerns raised by certain measures adopted by the hungarian authorities. in particular, the commission has launched a number of infringement proceedings against hungary. these relate to the rights of civil society organisations, academic freedom and the rights of migrants and asylum seekers. the commission is also using other instruments such as the european semester. on 9 july 2019, the council, following a commission proposal, recommended that hungary strengthen judicial independence and reinforce its anti—corruption framework, including by improving prosecutorial efforts and access to public information. to conclude, i would like to recall that the commission remains available to engage with the hungarian authorities on resolving rule-of-law issues. this is a matter of common interest for the eu, the member states and citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we are again discussing the rule of law. the resurgence of this topic is a cause for concern. the position of the european people's party has always been clear and consistent, with each country. we want the rule of law to be safeguarded always, at all times, clearly and through transparent procedures. that is what we have believed and that is what we will continue to believe. because without the rule of law, institutions suffer, citizens' protection is eroded, trust in the country is diminished. european citizenship means a citizen protected by his rights guaranteed and this is the heart of what the european union is. and so this union, this parliament, must be the guardian of the rule of law. we must be on the side of the european citizens, on the side of justice, and there must be no compromise on this, either by any country or by the european union and its institutions. the european commission, for its part, must also continue to uphold the value of the rule of law. it is never acceptable that one country guarantees the rule of law and others do not. the values on which the european union is founded must continue to bind countries together and, in ensuring this, we must strengthen the mechanisms by which the rule of law is safeguarded. the methods currently used do not give european citizens the necessary confidence. there is a need for change, a change that cannot wait. it is necessary to introduce a scrutiny mechanism that applies to all countries in the same way, with the same measurements. to conclude, each country should be under the lens continuously. then we are truly representing those who elected us. this is how we protect our citizens against those who try to undermine the rule of law.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, 17 months have now elapsed since the procedure against hungary under article 7 was triggered. has it changed the situation in hungary? back then, the european parliament claimed that hungarian authorities were limiting the freedom of media, the judiciary and universities, denounced its corruption and violations of minority rights. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), we are now working on a report on the situation in hungary, but even without that report, the situation is clear. hearings held under article 7 brought no progress. of course, this is not only a problem in hungary because, likewise, article 7 is ineffective with regard to the situation in poland. let’s face it, the european union now has no capacity to quickly restore the rule of law in its member states. this is why the time has come for a new mechanism. to begin with, let’s tie the extent of the country’s compliance with the rule of law to eu funds.
mr president, i also extend my greetings to the council and the commission. i'd like to remember the basics. the european union is a club of democracies governed by respect for fundamental rights, the separation of powers and the rule of law, and it is therefore essential that whenever there is a break in this principle of the rule of law, and in respect for these pillars of our democracies, whenever there is a break, there is a mechanism to be able to ascertain whether or not the member states of the union comply with this principle. it is true that there are problems with hungary today, there are problems with poland, there are even problems with malta, but it is also true that article 7 is not working as it should. and that is why it is essential that in this debate we are able to defend a mechanism that can monitor and verify compliance with the rule of law in all member states without making any discrimination and without giving rise to any idea that there is an individual persecution of this or that. that said, i hope that the hungarian and polish governments can take positive steps and give signals that will exempt us from applying article 7.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of the house of representatives! those who thought that after the sargentini report condemning the orbán government, viktor orbán would hit the brakes and stop, i think you can now admit that you were wrong. on the contrary, the orbán system has been pushing it further with tear gas. only since the adoption of the sargentini report has orbán abolished the independence of the academy of sciences, attacked the courts, suspended independent theatres, continued to appoint party members to the heads of supposedly independent institutions, and now we are hearing that he wants to take away eu subsidies from budapest and the opposition-led municipalities. and of course, he steals and steals and steals. it's his main program. his own nephew, mészáros lőrinc, has become the richest man in hungary in the last few years. he's made more money in a few years than the queen of england. we're almost there! viktor orbán is an illiberal elephant who is breaking down european values, and in the process he is blackmailing and threatening and attacking the hungarian people with eu money, which the union does not intend for him, but for all hungarian citizens. i hope i'm not telling anyone in this room anything new when i say that orbán will not stop. orbán will not turn back, at least not until we express our regret, voice our concerns and write longer and longer reports. viktor orbán did not understand civilized european solutions and things. he lived by the rule, like a true oriental despot, that if someone hits his hand hard and says, "so far and no more, this is not your money, this is the money of the hungarian people, you can't treat it as your own!" you need them. orbán and his government must be punished, because that is the only way to protect the hungarian people. it is in the interest of hungary, it is in the interest of the hungarian people, and it is also in the interest of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. people with roma background in hungary face massive discrimination. children from roma families are locked up in separate classes, and the education is inadequate. the children can hardly read and write after school hours. this robs them of any opportunity for education. just last week, a court in debrecen awarded these families compensation for the institutional segregation of their children rightly and as evidence of the institutional racism in hungary for which the orbán government is responsible. but how does mr orbán react? instead of protecting children, it forces their exclusion. it calls into question the rule of law and is fuelling racism or anti-gypsyism once again. mr orbán, stop inciting against minorities, migrants or dissidents! and you, dear cdu members, please be credible and exclude orbán's fidesz from your group! and to the eu heads of state or government: use the article 7 procedure to put mr orbán on the back foot! (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleague for accepting this blue card. you know that we work together very closely on the roma. therefore, i would like to ask you, mr franz: can you tell me another country that has done more for the european roma than hungary? please, tell me another country that has done more for the european roma than hungary.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear livia, that is the wrong question. i wish what you're saying was the truth. but we have evidence and facts. just a few days ago, this court ruling made it clear. you can't deny it, it's the truth. let's talk about the facts and the evidence and how we can actually change this situation for these people. that's what we both do, that's what we try to do. but we can't build this on lies or any kind of fantasy, but we have to take the evidence and actually try to work this out and change it. that's the approach we have.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening, namely the criminal proceedings against hungary and poland, is of course a witch hunt. witch-hunting, because the people of poland and hungary have sovereignly elected their sovereign governments. this is the will of the people of poland and hungary. the real reason you don't like them, dear colleagues from the left (those of you who are more proud of the red pentagram than your national flag) is that you don't like the policies of poland and hungary regarding illegal migration, regarding same-sex marriage, regarding gender propaganda, regarding mr. soros's shares. you don't like that, and you do it in the form of a purely totalitarian and bolshevik dictatorship. you deny the freedom of the hungarian and polish people to choose their own governments and to know how to govern poland and hungary. not you, but they will decide how to govern poland and hungary. i know some of you are ashamed of your national identity, but let me tell you this: many empires have tried to erase our national feeling and failed, and you will not succeed. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleague, this is exactly what is happening not in poland and hungary, in poland and hungary the poles and hungarians elect their governments. it's happening right here in this room. when you disagree with us, you accuse us and you don't let us speak and you call us different names. this is totalitarianism! this is a violation of freedom of speech! this is the new left liberal bolshevism!
the commission has already taken action on this. first question: are elections really free if there is no free media? second question: do you have to murder a journalist to prove that there is no freedom in the media? third question: even if elected by the majority of the electorate, can the government act against the law, against democracy, control the judiciary, the media which should be free, etc.?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. hungary again! protests of the opposition, outcry in the cultural landscape of the international public absolutely no matter. as in the past, there is only one party in hungary, only one opinion. in future, the government wants to decide how much money municipal theatres get and how the directors are appointed. the new national council for culture will be responsible for the strategic direction of the cultural sector. we must not be naive. political control of cultural institutions borders on censorship. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission and the council have not yet reacted to this. the constantly renewed anti-democratic developments in hungary are a scandal which our citizens are quite rightly unwilling to accept. that is why it is time for clear consequences!
mr president, the developing rapprochement between britain’s new government and hungary’s president orbán should ring alarm bells for all democrats. first we have conservative adviser tim montgomery call for a special relationship between london and budapest, and then orbán praises johnson as one of the bravest european politicians. with the government opposing any parliamentary oversight of the process of negotiating our future relationship with the eu, are we seeing the uk on the way to becoming a fake democracy on the hungarian model? since 2010, orbán’s government has attacked media freedom, limiting access to certain sympathetic journalists. johnson is threatening to abolish the bbc licence, boycott the today programme and castrate the lobby system that holds government to account. this government is politicising media relationships as never before. orbán endorses brexit because it represents a move towards authoritarian government and illiberal democracy. johnson’s tories have fallen over themselves to roll out the red carpet for the hungarian leader. this is deeply worrying, not only for the uk, but also for the eu.
the eu is not an accidental partnership or a simple sum of costs and benefits. we are a community of values, and everyone who participates must respect those values: the european union is committed to the promotion of human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. without these shared values as the basis for our cooperation, there can be no future-proof cooperation in europe. that is precisely why we must remain so focused on those values in all eu countries. and this parliament, a year and a half ago - and we supported that - found that those values are in danger in hungary, and those concerns have not been allayed in the last year and a half. it is therefore good that we have this debate today and that we can vote on that resolution tomorrow. but the real discussion must take place in the council, and that is happening too little: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. so let this be a call to the heads of government. show that for you too, the rule of law, human rights and democracy are more than just campaign material and pretty talk. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question asked by raising the blue card. i fully support what my colleague has said, but i have a dilemma, a split of personality, because on the one hand you say on behalf of your political group that we must defend european values, that we must talk, and on the other hand there are colleagues from hungary who deny these values. do you in your own group have a clear position on this and on which side you stand, or do you not?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the courts in poland are independent and free. poland is a country governed by the rule of law. in poland, judges can protest and no one brings law enforcement against them. anyone who says otherwise is lying. all poles in this room know that, including the judges who were invited here. four years ago, just a few days before this unfortunate anniversary, the polish opposition organized a debate against poland. on 19 january 2016, i had the honour as prime minister of the polish government to represent my country here during the debate in the european parliament in strasbourg. we talked about the situation in poland, about reforms, about everything that needs to be done, and what the law and justice government, which was elected by the people and trusted by the people, has done. in these four years, we have carried out a great many social, economic, administrative reforms. the poles appreciated that and trusted us again, gave us a new mandate of trust to form a government and continue these reforms that we have started. in those four years, a lot of good has been done, but the poles still expect to see all the reforms, including the reform of the judiciary, because the judiciary is supposed to serve the citizens, not protect some particular privileges that a particular group wants to keep. on many occasions the polish government, including myself here four years ago, has explained why the judicial system needs to be reformed, a system that was the only one not reformed during the transition and which is still, you could say, a relic of the communist state in a democratic member state of the european union. the european commission knows this, you know this and you know this in parliament too, because we have spoken about this many times and that is why we have undertaken these reforms. we have made these changes in accordance with the polish constitution, in accordance with european legislation, but above all in accordance with the will of the poles, because he is our sovereign. we have always been open to dialogue and we have always been open to explanations, but for this dialogue to take place there has to be a will on both sides, and i have the impression that the european commission and the european parliament simply do not want this ... (the president withdrew the floor) (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. prime minister szydlo stated that everything that happens in poland is in accordance with the constitution. we don't know if it's constitutional because prime minister szydlo is the person who issued the order not to publish the constitutional court's judgments, and that's when the violation of the constitution and the rule of law in poland began. she's also someone who's not unbiased about this case, because she's the one who's been involved in cases like the 26 god-damned sebastian k. ghost hearings, so i strongly suggest to the powers that be...
i have to tell you, mr president, that the 'blue card' is there to ask a question, not to participate in the debate. i'm sorry about that.
do you want to give an answer? – but it was not the question.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. that wasn't a question, but mr. sikorski lied right now, and i should actually take him to court, because i'm not facing any legal proceedings. that's a first, mr. sikorski. and please read with understanding. you're a liar and you're unworthy of a polish-issued ticket.
madam president, i would be very careful about such words, where one implies something of the other. that is why we are debating the rule of law in poland. that's the point. the commissioner has already made her introduction.
i must apologize to you for having gone one step further because of the 'blue card'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr. chairman, mrs. ship! in a democracy, the law is sovereign, the constitution must be respected, not violated. no one gives the right to any political party, even the ruling one, to break the constitution, to break the treaties, because this debate is not about poland, this debate is about protecting the rule of law and protecting the european union. and polish judges, just because they want to enforce the law and act in accordance with the treaties, cannot be fired, cannot be disciplined. the union has the right to react and the duty to react then, and we thank the commission for its action. but i also wanted to say, as head of the polish delegation of the epp within the european people's party: of course we are in favour of a resolution that protects and strengthens the union, because these are our citizens' expectations too. without the rule of law, there is no freedom.
mr president, we are seeing in poland today the perpetual carnival of destruction of the polish judiciary. i’ve been observing this process for years as a deputy commissioner for human rights and now as a member of the european parliament – the dismantling of the constitutional tribunal, control over the national council of the judiciary, monopoly to appoint judges, the supreme court. now we are seeing the proposed muzzle law, which will make it possible to limit judges’ independence even more. there is no doubt that all these changes are in complete violation of the rule of law and i am sorry to say that the actions undertaken by the civil society so far, the protests of judges and the triggering of the procedure under article 7 have all been insufficient. this is why the time has come for further steps. it is necessary to suspend the operations of the supreme court’s disciplinary chamber and it is high time to tie the country’s compliance with the rule of law to eu funds.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the european commission for its determined intervention, but in the direction of my polish colleagues from the ecr group, you justify your purge of the judiciary by referring to communists. well, apart from the fact that that’s already 30 years ago and some of the judges are actually rather young, what strikes me about this is that some of the parties in your group, like, for example, the dutch forum for democracy, is using the exact same language in my country to attack to the judiciary there. we’ve never had any communists in power, so it is a very clear pretext to grab power over the judiciary. what also strikes me is that you’re going straight against the interest of your people. the polish people are amongst the most pro-european in the whole european union, but if you don’t recognise the european commission, the authority of the european court of justice, the decisions of this house, or indeed the eu treaties then we’re talking about a de facto ‘polexit’. now, did you tell your voters that before you went to the elections? or did you lie to them? please turn around, come back into the fold, respect european values and keep poland firmly in the heart of the european union. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. you use words you don't know anything about. give any example of judicial purges in the republic of poland, in a free, sovereign country. please provide examples of breaches of any european values. yes, the poles love the european union, and yes, they want a change in the justice system. i would like to give one specific example, and i ask the president that each of you who speaks should not just use headlines, but give specific examples, there are simply no such examples.
blue-card answer. – ms zalewska, you don’t have to take my word for it. you can take the word for it from the polish judges who are sitting in the public gallery. if you don’t listen to the judges, who have who have sworn loyalty to the polish constitution, you might actually listen to the impartial opinion of the european court of justice. if you don’t recognise the european court of justice, you cannot be a member of the european union.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would not like you to get the impression that this is a polish-polish war, so i will not refer to those over-enthusiastic colleagues of mine from the civic platform, but i will ask a question to all the previous speakers from other groups and from other countries. where were you when under the rule of those who sit on these benches today, the special services entered the editorial office of the weekly "wprost"? where were you when the "sightings" were taking place, when god was holding the ghosts of the guilty fans? where were you when there were police provocations and the independence march was broken up? where was the european commission then?
i would just like to emphasize once again that we are here to debate the statement by the council and the commission on the ongoing consultations under article 7 (1) of the eu treaty. the basis is the commission report, and that basis has revealed facts which we are now discussing here. i therefore come to the answer to the honourable member's question, and then we shall continue the debate.
since we are currently dealing with several 'blue cards' at the same time, which are always handed in very late with a wave of the hand, i would ask you to use the electronic system so that i know the order and also know who wants to ask the question, in order to bring a specific order to this rather heated debate.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner jourová said that she encouraged the polish authorities to consult the commission on changes to the justice system. commissioner jourová, i would like to say that the european union is not a union of republics of member states, but a union of states that want to pursue a common mission, but each state is sovereign and, in accordance with the treaties, each state retains its competence in the area of justice. poles are a proud, law-abiding and democratic country and we certainly do not deserve the good name of poland to be maligned here in the european parliament. so why is this happening? because we have an opposition that has set itself the goal of denouncing poland and building false information around poland. this is an example of misinformation, of damage to your homeland. you see, there are people from all the member states, from all the political parties, but no opposition to their country behaves as shamefully as the representatives of the so-called european coalition. ladies and gentlemen, if we don't know what's going on, the point is that you want to see how far you can go in appropriating national competences, because you want to go on the road to federalisation and i wonder how you will explain to yourself, as you will return to poland, that you are demanding the linking of funds with the rule of law ... (the president interrupts the speaker) ...when that rule of law is broken. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. you always ask for specifics, so i wanted to ask a specific question. please point me to specific laws and specific provisions of your judicial reform law that streamline and reform the judiciary in poland so that it truly respects the tripartite system of power, is constitutional and serves the poles.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. if you had the ability to read with understanding, this question would not have been asked today, because i assure you, mep, that all the laws we have proposed are improving the justice system, and in poland, madam, the justice system was very often oppressive towards citizens, which is why it needed improvement. law and justice won twice because we made a deal with the poles to reform the justice system.
mr president, as a lawyer, i am deeply moved by the march of polish judges last saturday. we ask the polish government to respect the polish constitution, which is a european constitution too; to respect polish judges, who are european judges too; to respect the polish judiciary system, which belongs to the european system too – the same thing we ask of every single country, no matter if it is from east, west, north or south. we are defending the right of the polish people to have an independent justice system they can believe in. we are not attacking the government of poland, but defending the people of poland. if we have to choose between this polish government and the polish people, trust me: we know on which side we will stand. to conclude, to my colleagues in the ecr group: sincerely, do you realise how much your government is damaging your country? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to say that the polish citizens you mentioned - and i thank you for that - six times made the law and justice party win the elections, and we thank you for your concern. i wanted to ask you, because you are referring to the european union, which is also very important to us, we are a member state. how would you comment on the fact that your country had the right to do so of course rejected the judgment of the court of justice of the european union on the catalan parliamentarians?
blue-card answer. – mr brudziński, i have two words: one in english, and another one in spanish. in english: you are lying. in spanish: está mintiendo. the spanish supreme court accepts the sentence of the european supreme court, so there is an absolute difference. the spanish supreme court respects the rule of law. you are lying, and you are a liar. (cheers and applause)
mr. chairman, please! in reference to the speaker, if our regime is so angry because it got so little support, what about your party, a regime that got twice as much? but to return to the most important issues, it is characteristic that you say very generally today that the law is broken in poland. none of you have said what exactly is the reason for the politicized selection of judges in poland, and do you know why? because if you did, questions would arise, for example, the question to commissioner jourová, how are judges elected in your country? you can say that and compare it to poland, and then you can all see what a big lie it is. it's good that the german lady also spoke, because you say that we have a politicised selection of judges. do you know that in poland, judges choose judges? do you know how judges are elected in germany? not long ago, a member of the bundestag became a judge. and you dare to tell us that in poland the justice system is politicized, but in germany it is not? this is the height of cynicism, i'll say more, you talk about freedom of demonstration. do you know that these judges sitting here had polish police protection when they protested? and now let the french judges and french lawyers tell us how they were forcibly removed from the appellate court in france. so, what, we have a rule of law here and france doesn't? it's ridiculous, and you know it. poland is bothering you because it no longer holds on to the german leg, because it is getting up off its knees, it does not agree to accept as many migrants as you want, it does not agree to accept as many technologies, it simply wants to be a sovereign, subject state and that bothers you. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. it's also characteristic that you say something about breaking the law, but you don't specify anything. but it's very good that you mentioned the ecj ruling, because a spanish colleague accused my colleague of lying about the spanish case. if you say you will comply with the court's ruling, i ask you when you will release your colleague from prison. please, please, please, please, tell me when.
mr. president, it was a historic sight in warsaw on saturday: judges from more than 20 countries took to the streets with their polish colleagues to protest against the erosion of the rule of law. it shows how urgent the situation is, because the adoption of the mule-cage law is a new step in the destruction of the independence and freedom of expression of judges in poland. and a rule of law cannot function without an independent and impartial judiciary. a member state where the blindfold is taken from lady justice and she must now look through the glasses of the incumbent government can never provide the protection that society deserves, nor can it ever cooperate with other countries within the eu on the basis of mutual trust. so, full support for the european commission's approach. we will continue to protect the rule of law in poland. we will not leave the polish judges in the cold, because their struggle is a struggle for all of us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. democracy in poland in danger! there, despite massive protests, the parliament passed a law to further discipline judges. they face fines, demotions or dismissal if they question the decisions of another judge, court or chamber. it is rightly called a "mute" here. today's debate follows many other debates in recent years, and quite frankly, i feel like i'm in the movie "groundhog day" or "every day the groundhog says hello". how long will the council stand by and rely on non-transparent hearings that will not lead to anything? and how long will the commission be satisfied with infringement procedures or official letters? finally, use all the instruments for a democratic and rule-of-law europe before it is too late!
mr president, the government ruling poland continues demolishing the rule of law. in december, the lower chamber of the parliament adopted a bill which opens the way to punishing the judges who implement the verdicts of the court of justice of the eu. if that happens, judiciary independence will become non-existent. the speaker of the senate, who came to brussels to discuss the issue with ms věra jourová, was officially accused by the government of damaging the basic interests of poland, and the attorney—general publicly commented on the possibility of accusing the speaker of unconstitutional activity. at risk is not only the rule of law, but – later on – also democratic rights and freedoms. the situation requires urgent and decisive action by this parliament, the commission and the council. it is a test of the credibility of these institutions.
mr president, i will first react in a somewhat unconventional way to my colleague mr jaki, who is referring to the judiciary in the czech republic. i was minister of justice for five years in the czech republic and was in charge of the reform of the czech judiciary. we had the same problems you had with the communist judges. and we never, in our reform, have even gone so far as to reduce the retirement age of judges. we never made the policy changes you do in poland, even though we had similar problems in our justice system. so please don't mention the czech republic and please try to reform your judiciary properly in the style of the rule of law. mrs jourová has a difficult time, she has to communicate with your government now and i am holding mrs jourová's fist to convince the polish parliament that it is possible to reform the post-communist judiciary while respecting the rule of law. we did that in the czech republic, and it's up to you, colleagues, to uphold the rule of law and have an effective non-communist justice system.
mr. chairman, please! dear law and justice, i have some bad news for you today. free trials are not dead yet, as long as we live. no matter how much you shout, no matter how many claws you try to impose, no matter what kind of strings you try to put on, polish society will take to the streets for as long as it takes to defend the constitution, to defend the rule of law, to defend the constitutional order, and we will also show this solidarity here in the european parliament, because your actions, your elite, because you talk a lot about elites, are a threat not only to the rule of law in poland, but to the entire european union. that's why i warn you, if you continue on this path, you will be even more isolated and you will get closer to belarus and russia, because you resort to the same manipulations in poland as in belarus and russia. you talk a lot about the elite, but who makes up the elite today? you're the ones who created a new neo-communist elite in poland. you have the public media in your hands, you have the parliament, you have the president, you have your representatives in the courts, that's why our solidarity will never break.
mr. chairman, please! you had a small example today of the team that rules poland today. the screaming, the aggression and the propaganda that's been going on from morning till night, but it's not really about poland that we're debating today. the debate today is about the future of europe, about the future and the security of our children, their freedom, because if we allow lawlessness and constitutional violations to spread anywhere in europe, it will be our fault. if we allow backbones to be broken anywhere in europe, if we allow disobedient judges to be destroyed just because they don't want to listen to party thugs, then it will be our fault. if we here allow that anywhere in europe is allowed to blame the innocent and acquit the guilty, it will be our fault. if we here in europe allow this kind of propaganda to flood us every day, then we will lose europe and there are those who say that this kind of people play in putin's orchestra. ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer a chamber orchestra, this is a symphony orchestra that is entering our europe, our home.
mr. chairman, mr. biedron, i'm not going to let you down. so far, you are closer to belarus and russia, because those who support you in the elections are the direct heirs of their, shall we say, pseudo-values. that's enough! second, how many of you have read and understood at least one court reform bill? i bet you nobody did. after today's debate, i don't think that's what happened. i'm not going to let you go. you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, you say, when will you come to poland and talk to the people who have been harmed by the justice system? there are thousands, thousands of them. the latest victim is a man who accidentally threw mud at someone and was murdered. you know what the judge did? he said they beat him so badly they didn't want to kill him. do you know that i am also damaged as a member of the sejm? my congressional office was burned. the perpetrator is still at large, and my husband and i are daily shaking with fear that he will burn down our home. and there are thousands of people like that, commissioner jourova. when you come to poland, will you talk to those who are harmed by the justice system? that's all i have to say to you. you're letting yourself be told... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. – mr president, let me address some issues raised during the debate, at least about the rule of law in poland. i would like to come back to yesterday’s decision of the college of commissioners to request the european court of justice to take interim measures in the context of ongoing infringement proceedings, to suspend the functioning of the disciplinary chamber of the supreme court. as vice-president jourová explained, despite the preliminary ruling of the court of justice and the judgment of the supreme court, ordinary court judges who seek to implement these rulings are subject to disciplinary proceedings, and the disciplinary chamber continues to fully operate. in view of the risk of irreparable damage faced by judges in poland, i instructed the commission’s directorate-general for justice already in december to closely monitor the situation and to prepare the necessary to enable the college to take the decision on interim measures, which was taken yesterday. it was urgent and needed. regarding the new draft law currently under legislative process in poland, the venice commission is due to provide an opinion. it is important that the recommendations of the venice commission are fully implemented in the legislative process. the commission has invited polish authorities not to take forward the proceedings on the new draft legislation before carrying out all the necessary consultations. the opinion of the venice commission will also feed the commission assessment. i also again heard calls for a new rule-of-law mechanism. i can reassure you that the commission will work on a comprehensive european rule-of-law mechanism as a matter of priority. it will cover all member states and provide a synthesis of significant developments related to the different competences of the rule of law, including, for example, systemic problems with the process for enacting laws, lack of effective judicial protection by independent and impartial courts, the capacity to fight corruption, and issues in relation to media pluralism. this will allow us to identify and prevent early on rule-of-law-related issues. i want to insist, after some remarks, that each justice system is different and must always be looked at in a comprehensive manner. you cannot single out one specific provision from one member state and compare it with a provision of another member state without looking at the context of the legal system and the whole system of checks and balances in that member state. as held by the court of justice in its rulings, although the organisation of justice in the member states falls within the competence of the member states, the fact remains that, when exercising that competence, the member states are required to comply with their obligations deriving from eu law. the rule of law is our foundation and can never be compromised. we must ensure that it is respected and upheld everywhere. to conclude, the commission will continue to monitor the situation in poland very closely and remains ready to engage in a constructive dialogue with the polish authorities. the introduction of infringement proceedings does not exclude dialogue. i will be in zagreb at the informal ministerial meeting of justice and home affairs ministers on 23 and 24 january. i invite the polish minister of justice, mr zbigniew ziobro, to take advantage of this opportunity and to engage with me in a constructive dialogue.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me assure you once again that the presidency and the council as a whole attach great importance to this issue. we believe that only a joint effort by the european union institutions and the member states alike will allow the union to effectively ensure that the rule of law remains the cornerstone of our common project. as i said, the general affairs council has discussed the situation in poland over the last two years, and our presidency will make sure that it remains seized of the matter. regarding the question on dealing with the article 7 procedure in respect of poland in the council, you are aware that the presidency cannot pre-judge the council’s deliberations, nor the outcome of its procedure. all the recent legislative developments in poland are being followed, so that the council can have a full and up-to-date picture of the situation on the ground for its future considerations.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by five political groups on the ongoing consultations on poland and hungary under article 7 (1) teu. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 january 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the european parliament must make it clear: poland is a country where the rule of law is respected and where the public expression of political views is protected. i say this not only as a member of parliament, but also as a former home secretary. there was a recent march without incident by those who oppose the democratization of the judiciary. although he was opposed to the current government, he was running peacefully and had proper police protection. similar protection was given to marches of victims of the justice system who support the democratization of the judiciary. the polish police are not political. according to a cbos survey from march last year, 75% of poles appreciate her work. 90% of my countrymen think that poland is safe. meanwhile, the state of our democracy is being assessed by mps from countries such as germany, where a politician of the ruling party, as in poland, becomes a member of the constitutional tribunal. it's not controversial there, but here, it's called politicization. the tone of french politicians is equally surprising. all over europe, people were dragged through the streets and beaten during anti-government demonstrations. why do you treat poland like a second-rate country that has to explain itself? i appeal to the opposition not to involve europe in its internal disputes. let's talk about the countries of the old union, where cars are burning. let's talk about the ones where journalists get killed. let's be honest in this debate.
in writing. respect for the rule of law in the member states is of fundamental importance, as an efficient and independent judicial system of the european union guarantees equal legal protection to every citizen, regardless of the member state in which he or she is located (civis europaeus sum). the national courts are the key element of this system and, together with the court of justice, they are key to deepening european integration and integration by law. a law whose meaning and substance go beyond the application and interpretation of the treaties (second sentence of article 19 (1) teu) and which presupposes the autonomy of the eu legal order. in this context, every aspect of the functioning of the european union and the loyal cooperation of the member states requires that judicial independence be guaranteed in full, so that the court can always assess objectively and without fear of possible sanctions whether union law is applied in a given case and how to ensure its effectiveness. unfortunately, in poland, there have been increasingly bold attempts to subordinate the judiciary to the ruling majority for some time. the constitutional tribunal has been illegally sacked, the institutional system of judicial discipline has been expanded, and provisions are proposed to restrict the freedom of judges to rule and to apply eu law. i therefore believe that the european parliament cannot remain passive and must take a clear position, because only the union has any chance of stopping the authoritarian drive of the absolute majority in poland.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by ms irene tinagli, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the institutions and bodies of the economic and monetary union: prevention of conflicts of interest in the recruitment of former civil servants (o-000048/2019 - b9-0001/2020) (2019/2959 ((rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, do not think that you are going to win the virginity of the european parliament and the european institutions this morning by sounding the alarm, decades later, that there are conflicts of interest, lobbying influence, revolving doors and a lack of ethics within the european institutions. we have been denouncing it for years and the citizens are denouncing it: i would like to say that the commission has been very careful to ensure that the european parliament is not involved in the negotiations. but it is also important to go and see what has happened, where monetary union has created damage: there are shops that have closed, businesses that have closed, citizens who have lost their jobs to the influence of these lobbies. so that we do not simply regulate the future but seek to hold accountable those actions and those mistakes but above all the criminal premeditation that has been taking place in recent years.
madam president, in the eurozone regulation at european level is still developing, sometimes by trial and error. the role of the top managers is crucial in setting, interpreting and implementing regulatory texts. on that basis, new administrative structures and practice will eventually be developed, as the banking union and the capital markets union beckon. complex interests are at play – national and transnational, state and private. subject to such complex pressures, those managing and arbitrating the euro’s regulatory movement must be totally neutral. all states and corporate actors, the general european public, the regulators themselves, must have the assurance that this is the case. that assurance is not available as of now. post-employment calculations and expectations can colour the way in which the regulatory process is being developed. also, post-employment the inside information and know-how obtained when working in regulatory mode can serve to give advantages to one’s new employer, but the revolving door practice is still being tolerated. there is, too, a reverse revolving door issue. we need to understand how conflicts of interest could arise from positions held pre-public employment when nominating people to top regulatory or executive positions. that problem, too, cannot be ignored. we should not tolerate the contamination of the regulatory neutrality that the eurozone requires if it is to develop properly.
madam president, commissioner, we are returning to this debate because this is not the first time we have spoken about conflict of interest and, above all, the prevention of conflict of interest. i refer to the last debate, on 24 october last year, when commissioner mimica told us that yes, he recognises that we need to make a review, a review of the legal framework, to harmonise it, to check this conflict of interest, to make it uniform across all agencies. it is also strange that since then, since 24 october, the commission has not come up with any concrete measures (because as the commissioner promised, he will also talk to the new commission and come up with concrete measures). of course, the regulation of european financial markets, the way in which they are regulated, the way in which they are supervised, affects the whole of the internal market and i cannot understand the council and commission's decision to be so indifferent in assessing the conflict of interest. i also don't understand how a commissioner can say that after hiring, after hiring, we check for conflicts of interest. we are talking about prevention, we can check ahead, and the specific case brought up in this question i think must be resolved urgently and this gentleman cannot be employed if he has a recognised conflict of interest, in fact.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european institution has an interest in preventing, inter alia, abuse and breach of law by subordinate institutions. he's contemplating a transfer where mr. adam farkas, who occupies a very important controlling position, suddenly becomes the director of an association that can lobby and influence the eu institutions. this raises the suspicion of the possibility of exerting influence to the benefit of the aforementioned association as well as other interested institutions. it is in the interest of the european commission and the european parliament to monitor and prevent such cases. i would therefore like to ask whether the european commission intends to monitor the work of the european banking authority and the association of financial markets in europe and to check whether mr farkas' influence is being used. if so, can we expect a report from such an inspection?
madam president! i would like to take this opportunity to raise this very interesting subject without expecting the answer that all of europe is talking about. everyone knows that we're building the new green order, that there's going to be huge funding for it. i can see, because i'm involved in the legislative process, a lot of interest in this process from various lobby groups and financial markets. so i would like to ask, perhaps, that at this stage we clearly separate the people who are working on this legislative process from the people who will later (i am thinking of later advisors to different companies) benefit from or advise in the collection of this money or the implementation of the huge financial resources that will be available. i'm afraid there could be financial bubbles and all kinds of fraud, so at this stage, please pay attention.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today, thursday 16 january 2020.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on burundi, in particular freedom of expression (2020/2502 ((rsp)).
the european parliament and the council aachtaráin, we are again in bhurúin agus from which we are to hear a story within the chianaibh, níl aon scéal maith againn. the right to freedom of expression, and the human rights of the people of burundi should be discussed in the morning. on 14 march 2016, the eu suspended all direct financial support to the burundian administration. this arose out of the 2015 presidential elections, which were boycotted by the opposition and which the un observatory condemned. the eu deplores the continued oppression of freedom of speech and freedom of expression in burundi. in 2018 and 2019, media outlets faced increased harassment by the burundian authorities when foreign-operating licenses such as that of the worldwide respected bbc were withdrawn. the burundian authorities continue to subject independent journalists to arbitrary arrests. in the world press freedom index, burundi is ranked 159th out of 180 countries in 2019. that says it all where freedom of expression and freedom of speech are concerned. with presidential, parliamentary and local elections taking place in 2020, this remains a huge issue. on 22 october 2019, the burundian police arrested four journalists on the basis of complicity in threatening state security and a judgment is to be given on those in 30 days. for that reason, it is so important that the european union and our high representative take immediate steps and make representations there to ensure that the 15-year prison sentence suggested is not given to these journalists. finally, i would also say that we need to work more closely with the east african community and the african union to protect the burundian population. we can only improve on the terrible situation that is there at the moment.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, burundi has been facing multiple crises over the last five years. people considered as opposition are disappearing, being tortured and killed. journalists are harassed and arbitrarily arrested. there is total impunity for the perpetrators, and thousands of burundian refugees are fleeing to escape the violence and humanitarian crisis. in an already dire situation the presidential elections this year risk generating even more instability and potential violence, with people opting to join armed opposition groups. the government must take action now. it must protect its people and restore and uphold their rights to prevent the situation escalating further. it must release the jailed journalists and cease to censure society. the rule of law must be upheld and democracy fostered or the country risks disintegrating further. under these circumstances, the eu has had no choice but to suspend financial support to the government of burundi. but we should not let down the burundian people. we must strengthen our development cooperation to help relieve the humanitarian crisis, and we must stand ready to offer all we can to support a peaceful electoral process.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i have been to burundi and to the countries that border burundi, namely, rwanda to the north, tanzania to the south and east, and also the so-called democratic republic of congo. so i think i know what the situation is in this country, which is -- look -- is a country with a long history. the kingdom in this country, the tutsi kingdom, was established before a number of european countries, including the country that later colonized burundi, which was belgium. it's good that we are speaking out on this issue first, that we are demanding freedom for the local press and free elections this spring. but it's also very important that we can show how the pressure mechanism works, which is to withhold financial aid to a country that doesn't respect human rights.
madam president, the approach of the electoral process in burundi has heightened the social and political tensions in the country and has shown how the state operates with a strong police hand to limit the fundamental rights of citizens such as the right to freedom of expression. the state has been boycotting the work of the un, which works on basic assistance to the populations, and also the work of other ngos that do. freedom of expression is in danger with arrests and demonstrations against those who dare to dissent from the official discourse. several journalists are missing or have been prevented from freely carrying out their work. it is urgent to ensure that the elections in may this year are free and fair, and we call for the active monitoring of our external action service and european diplomats on the ground. the imposition of targeted sanctions by the european union and the un must be assessed as soon as possible and put into practice as a way of punishing the continuing violations of human rights in burundi. reconciliation and political and social peace in burundi are essential if the country is to develop and break out of the spiral of endemic poverty in which it finds itself.
madam president, the people of burundi continue to suffer from human rights abuses. the united nations report from september last year showed that the police, the intelligence services and even the youth wing of the governing party have been responsible for the killings, the disappearances and the arbitrary arrests of actual or alleged opposition politicians and their families. one of the first steps to holding human rights abusers to account is freedom of expression, but this too has come under attack in burundi. the bbc had its licence revoked by the burundian authorities, which also banned its citizens from providing information to the bbc. even children are not safe from prosecution. three schoolgirls were arrested last year for allegedly doodling on the president’s image in their school books. while they were later released, the government warned that future cases would be punished. more recently, the police arrested four journalists from a burundian media organisation – and their driver. they are potentially facing 15—year prison terms for just pursuing their profession. we must press the burundian government to release these journalists, cease the persecution of independent media and opposition politicians and reverse their suppression of freedom of expression. burundi is a signatory to the international covenant on civil and political rights, in which the protection of freedom of expression is enshrined. this is critical to ensure that the upcoming presidential elections are free and fair, which is the best route to a peaceful and genuinely democratic society.
madam president, it seems a little rich to me that we are here, in the european parliament in strasbourg, debating freedom of expression in burundi when actually, because of a rule made by this parliament this week, i am not free to express myself by having my national flag here, on my desk. are you really lecturing other nations about their freedom to express themselves, when you are repressing and denying our colleagues here the right to proudly display their national flags? what are you afraid of? yes, help others to improve their nations, but get your own house in order. we, the british, are leaving, we’re taking our flags with us, but stop being hypocrites and allow other mep colleagues here to express themselves and their electorates, and their identity by having their national flags on their desks.
madam president, it pains me to follow that presentation, but i want to focus on burundi and on agnès ndirubusa, christine kamikazi, egide harerimana and térence mpozenzi. they were journalists just doing their job, investigating and holding the government to account. now they face up to 15 years in jail. they were arrested on charges of undermining state security, but really these attacks on media freedom are aimed at preventing the world from knowing about serious human rights abuses happening in burundi. so, my questions to the commission. what will the european external action service (eeas) do to pressure the government to release these four journalists? how will it use its leverage, such as the eur 400 million allocated in the european development fund? and as elections approach in may, how will the commission ensure that president nkurunziza acts to protect what is left of freedom of expression in burundi and that there are free and peaceful elections? this is perhaps my last speech in this plenary and it has been an honour and a privilege to be able to speak up for those who are less able to do so; a platform that i’ve been able to use to speak against human rights abuses around the world.
madam president! freedom of speech is an unquestioned value. this freedom can be derived from arguments based on the idea of democracy, the need to serve the truth and the related freedom to express ideas, and finally from the autonomy of the individual and the fundamental rights of man. unfortunately, the current government in burundi is blocking the free flow of information, and manipulating public opinion. those who try to pass information across the border are severely punished, often beaten and raped, and eventually sentenced to life imprisonment or murder. the burundian government continues to fail to respect human rights and to move towards a democracy that is fragile and vulnerable to all dangers. the european commission and the european parliament should play a leading role in monitoring the pre-election situation in burundi, so that electoral manipulation is avoided and finally peace and freedom of speech can reign in the country.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on nigeria, in particular the recent terrorist attacks (2020/2503 ((rsp)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. i am very interested in this very necessary and very important discussion. the european union must take a very clear position on these tragedies which are unfolding on the african continent. today we are talking about nigeria. the great persecution of christians was mentioned. i would like to ask you (i know you are an expert on this subject) whether you see any possibility of resuming the debate here in parliament on the tragedy of christians in the world?
madam president! one of the founding fathers of the european community, robert schuman, who was quoted very often yesterday, said: 'europe will be christian or it will not be at all'. what did we hear in that debate yesterday? we have heard that the most important issue for the future of europe - although europe has been confused with the institutions of the european union - is the debate on the role of the spitzekandidat, and that the future of europe depends on mr verhofstadt's leadership of this conference. roger scruton, the great english philosopher who died a few days ago and who was a champion of european civilisation based on tradition, said: 'you have to have a vision of the future and a vision of the destination you are going to. it's not good to just react to today's threats by improvising answers. we need to know what we want our society to look like. i voted against this resolution because the demands made here did not contain a single sentence referring to the future of europe as a community of values. europe is founded on christian values derived from the old and new testaments, greek philosophy and roman law, and you talk about who will be spitzekandidat.
madam president! this is another part of the spectacle, i don't want to say the farce, which is taking place in this room in the name of the democratic polish government, a government elected by the majority of polish citizens, and in this house there are many words on the occasion of various debates, how important for representatives, especially the left, are the votes of the citizens. but when those votes are cast for representatives of the party or government who are opposed to the brussels or strasbourg establishment, that is when the tragic farce begins. i voted against this resolution, of course, because the level of hypocrisy, of fraud and, frankly, of actions contrary to the existing european treaties is staggering. member states have full autonomy and the right to reform their own judiciaries through their national parliaments. poland is a safe country today, poland is a country of law. the debate on the rule of law in france is being denied, where the police are violating civil liberties in a most brutal way, where they are forcibly removing judges and lawyers from the court of appeal. in poland, police protected a march of judges who were protesting against this judicial reform. it is a shame for me that the meps of the civic platform... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! i'm speaking up because there were a lot of lies in yesterday's debate. among other things, a leftist, probably communist, deputy from greece said that there is no rule of law in poland. where was he when greece, as a beneficiary of eu funds, was misappropriating funds? where was the justice in greece? so i want to say that we don't need advisers from the left, from the middle of this parliament, who don't tell the truth. poland under the rule of law and justice is also a beneficiary of eu funds. we're making good use of these resources, eurostat confirms that. in poland, people are enjoying their lives more and more. but the reality is that judges are simply seeking political revenge for losing elections to the opposition, and judges become politicians. it's a very bad habit, a very bad practice. history will judge that very well. that's why i voted against this resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. based on recent experience with sars and mers (both coronaviruses), the european union is familiar with these types of infections. we have a strong enough medical infrastructure to be able to combat the escalation of these infections. i welcome the work carried out by the ecdc and prepare and the exchange of monitoring and risk assessment data with member states. nevertheless, we must remain vigilant. the coronavirus can be transmitted from person to person, and the length of the virus's incubation period can vary. can the commission provide information on when updated risk assessments will be published which would take into account these facts? the union civil protection mechanism was launched yesterday at the request of france. in view of the dynamic situation, can the council and the commission provide parliament with up-to-date information on the crisis response coordination centre and its cooperation with member state governments in coordinating the repatriation of european union citizens and any subsequent quarantine periods for them?
mr. chairman, please! the situation we face today is certainly serious. we can't ignore it, we can't wonder when our country, our city, will have the first or the next case of infection. today's world without borders is particularly conducive to such fears. i call on the european commission to join forces. we have to find answers to the tough questions together. are european laboratories prepared to identify the virus quickly? are european hospitals ready to treat infected patients adequately and effectively? are safety procedures in place and followed for medical personnel? should we not consider setting up a permanent european rapid reaction team?
i'm closing the debate. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the indian citizenship amendment act 2019 (2020/2519 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. a moment ago we were talking about lobbies, strong lobbies, and i think that today the lobbies of common sense and respect have won in the european parliament. respect for the world's largest democracy (in terms of population), respect for our very important partner in asia - an economic partner as well as a political one, respect for a very old civilization, respect for a state that has never interfered in our internal affairs of the european union. when we debated the treaties, there was no comment from new delhi. i feel like the situation where we're going to be acting as teachers or judges or prosecutors is not a good method. this is about partnership and mutual respect. that's what i'm calling for.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the modi government's amendment to the citizenship act is worded in terms of seemingly welcoming and protecting, in reality this rule is discriminatory and divisive, excluding many religions from the same facilities accorded to others and, together with the establishment of the national register of citizens of india, the caa could indeed lead to a large-scale statelessness crisis, not to mention the unnecessary tensions and resentment created in the muslim community. colleagues, i wonder: if the purpose of the law was indeed to protect persecuted minorities, why were other persecuted minorities from neighboring countries not included? i think, for example, of the muslim populations of the rohingya in myanmar, the bihari in bangladesh or the ahmadi in pakistan, and i could go on and on. the union's external action is based on principles which have informed its establishment, including the principle of non-discrimination. i deeply regret the decision to postpone today's vote. it is our duty, colleagues, as elected representatives, to condemn the actions of the indian government and to do everything in our power to get it to reconsider the caa and perhaps repeal it. india's tradition, history and great cultural wealth do not deserve all this.
madam president, there’s been much disinformation in the run-up to this debate, and even misleading statements in this house by some who have spoken before me, mixing up all sorts of issues. let’s just stick to the citizenship amendment act (caa). this is an action of positive discrimination aimed at fast—tracking the integration process of refugees from pakistan, afghanistan and bangladesh, who have already been in india for many years, recognising the high level of discrimination faced by non-muslims in those countries. it is not seeking to exclude any of the other groups who do not fall within this category. they can still apply for citizenship and be processed. what really pains me is that i have repeatedly raised the concerns around the persecution of minorities in pakistan, afghanistan and bangladesh only for them to fall on deaf ears. had this house paid a little bit more attention to those gross violations, as we do today to the caa, india may not have had to take these actions. so i really welcome that the vote has been postponed on the resolution. first, it’s full of factual inaccuracies. secondly, it is right that we take time to have a proper debate and this house waits until the supreme court has deliberated on this. one thing we have to recognise is that india has a very strong civil society and indians are far more than capable of holding their executive to account without interference from those who know very little about it.
madam president, i certainly welcome the idea of a citizenship amendment act in offering protection for persecuted groups. unfortunately, the act as it stands is seriously flawed. the law does not extend to the protection of muslims. now, there are muslim sects in neighbouring countries that do face discrimination and one of them, the ahmadiyyas, has already been mentioned. ultimately, this law discriminates on religious grounds, and is therefore contrary to the whole principle in india of secularism and also its obligations and international human rights law. the danger, if this act is applied alongside the requirements of the national register of citizens, is that many muslims could be deemed stateless if they cannot produce the correct documentation. this is already proving to be an issue in assam, where – it’s already been stated by mr mohammed – 1.9 million people have been excluded from the register on the basis of not having the documents. so, india’s refugee policy needs to be applied to all of those in need, including muslims, and the government should ensure that security forces show sufficient restraint towards protesters and are held to account for their excessive use of force.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, no country in the world would admit that it does not control its borders. india is a sovereign country that has the prerogative to decide who is eligible to apply for citizenship, especially when the country's national cohesion and security both internally and externally are threatened: india is a democracy - we have all said it here - the largest in the world; the european union is a federation in which the states are of crucial importance in a number of important areas. the influx of millions of refugees from bangladesh, pakistan and especially afghanistan is not, for india, just a humanitarian fact; it is a national challenge to the already fragile unity of the country. india must govern a population of over 1.3 billion and does not want to succumb as it has so often in its history to internal differences, but to take its place in the world as a united nation. it's his absolute right.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i have taken due note of the various opinions expressed by the honourable members today. the eu values its partnership with india – may i reiterate this. it’s a respected democracy, the largest in the world and the oldest in asia, and we look forward to pursuing and intensifying our dialogue with india at the forthcoming summit on the whole range of issues of common interest, including our mutual commitment to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. i thank you and good night.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the second part-session in march. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. in december 2019, india passed a law granting citizenship to migrants who came to the country from pakistan, bangladesh and afghanistan before 2015, provided they are not muslim. such a right can only be called discrimination. there is no excuse for discrimination and exclusion based on religion or lack of religion. there is no excuse for discrimination on any grounds sex, age, level of ability, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or any other grounds. two days ago, holocaust survivor marian turski, speaking on the 75th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz, said: "don't be indifferent when any minority is discriminated against, because the essence of democracy is that the majority rules, but democracy is that the rights of minorities must be protected at the same time". people who have lived through the hell of exclusion and hatred need to be heard. the eu and india have good relations and regular dialogue. it is important that we, in this dialogue, pay close attention to the fact that the law that excludes, the law that discriminates, always ends badly. it is also important to note the value of a secular state - a state in which churches and religious associations are separated from public authority.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the humanitarian emergency in the greek islands, in particular the situation of children action for protection, relocation and family reunification (2020/2520 ((rsp)).
i call you to order, mr. ambassador, and ask you to read the rules.
madam president, the flood of migrants is a reality: it has particularly affected the greek islands in the aegean sea, whose population is calling for our help. on 22 january, a general strike was observed in protest by the inhabitants of lesbos, samos and chios. the situation is untenable: the moria camp on the island of lesbos, for example, hosts more than 19 000 migrants, whereas it was designed to hold only 3 000. the european union is responsible for this disaster. it is imperative that greece be helped to enlarge and renovate these camps in order to treat these people with dignity, while waiting to organise the expulsion of all illegal economic migrants from europe. on the other hand, we must adopt a firm policy and turn back to their port of departure the boats that bring us new contingents: 60 000 migrants arrived in greece by sea in 2019, that is far too many.
madam president! i can only agree with many of the voices that have been heard here today that we need a new migration pact, that we need a broader reflection on the whole issue, because the important politicians in the european union invited migrants in the beginning, but they did not prepare the tools and the whole systemic solutions that would be able to deal with this situation. and we're really getting to the point today where we have problems with children, with people who need help, and we don't have effective systemic solutions. this shows how ineffective the european union has been in this area. over the years, the number of migrants has been increasing, we have problems in identifying these people and lack of systemic solutions, so bilateral agreements are needed immediately, but with these countries from which refugees come, and in addition we have to help on the ground, as poland or minister kempa did: poland has spent almost two billion zlotys over the years to help those people on the ground and solve the problem systemically.
madam chairman! i was with a delegation from the european parliament in lesbos a few years ago. there were no refugees there then, it was tourism, we had a good time, people were friendly. so i now have sympathy for these people and for all my greek colleagues who know best what conditions their countrymen in the greek islands are living in. and when i think of the children, i have several grandchildren myself, and i certainly feel sorry for them in my heart when i see these pictures of barefoot children, hungry children and so on. most of all, of course, the solution is not easy, we have to act, we have to look for different solutions in many areas, but we certainly have to make sure that the children are not hungry, that we also offer them education, that maybe one day they will have a perspective in their own country again.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’ve been listening very carefully, and i understand from your genuine and committed interventions with a lot of feelings that i’m not the only one that sleeps badly at nights while we have a situation with over 40 000 people living under these unacceptable conditions, many of them children and many of them unaccompanied minors, mostly teenagers. we can’t continue like this, and i understand that we all agree on this. but as i said earlier, lying awake at night will not help anything. we are politicians, we need to act, and i, as the new commissioner, have a special responsibility to act, of course. so the commission will, of course, continue to help and support greece. we have in the last one and a half years spent eur 35 million to help unaccompanied minors with hotels, with guardians, and we are doing a lot of things, as i also said in my first intervention. but, as many of you have mentioned, we have been in this situation for many years. and at the same time we have, for many years, been in a politically-stuck situation, unable to take the necessary political decisions for a decent way to manage european migration in an orderly way and to have a decent way for solidarity that shows that we all know that we have different geographical realities. those member states that are under pressure – for example, these people living on the islands – we need to show solidarity towards the migrants but also, of course, to the greek people, who are now paying also a very high price. therefore, of course, first continue to support the migrants and especially the greek government and the greek authorities to change these conditions. but i also think it’s very urgent to find a political solution so that we can actually come together and find this necessary common migration and asylum policy for the european union. we can’t continue being in a stuck situation. those who pay the price for this are the people that live under these terrible circumstances on the islands. so there is high pressure on me personally but also on member states, and i count on your support from parliament to find these political solutions. thank you very much for this good debate tonight, and hopefully we can come back to another debate, having more solutions on a decent european way of meeting people that is true to our values, both between member states and also towards those that are searching for shelter in the european union.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me first of all thank you for this debate. your input is very important to help to find workable answers to the current challenges. there is no doubt that the situation on the greek islands must be addressed in an effective and timely manner. as i have mentioned, i am convinced that the greek government is committed to improving migrants’ conditions, especially those of children and unaccompanied minors. the new greek government announced a new plan designed to protect minors who have arrived in greece, and we expect the situation to improve soon. i know the member states and agencies are already extensively supporting all the greek authorities, and i urge the greek authorities and the commission to speed up all the important work they do so that the people most affected can see an improvement in the difficult situation in which they are living. the presidency will continue working towards a balanced approach between responsibility and solidarity in a comprehensive manner, in view of the upcoming commission proposals.
i'm closing the debate. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. i don't know which is more indecent: the unanimous reproach against greece for its alleged lack of generosity towards migrants, or the continuing violation by turkey of its commitment to control migration flows, paid for in gold by the european union. the €6 billion for the refugee facility is in addition to the €3.2 billion for the pre-accession funds. all for a poor result: in 2019, only 189 migrants who crossed the aegean sea were actually returned to ankara. under these conditions, it is no wonder that the mitsotakis government is finally turning a corner. the lesbos camp, with its 17 000 migrants for a capacity of 3 000, is certainly a limiting case in europe - the riots of last september amply demonstrated this. but from bosnia and herzegovina to italy, the threshold of tolerance has been far exceeded and the same causes will continue to produce the same effects, as long as europe does not take the only decisions that are necessary: border control and return to the countries of origin.
in writing. a serious humanitarian crisis is raging on the greek islands, with children being the first to be hit. the unicef figures need no further comment: as of 31 december 2019, the population of migrant refugees in greece has grown by more than 100,000 people, including 40,000 children, including more than 5,000 unaccompanied children. in 2019 alone, 21,800 children arrived by sea (an increase of 80% compared to 2018), of which 3,500 were unaccompanied. the tents and containers set up in the reception and identification centres for asylum seekers are overcrowded, the hygienic conditions and the violence there are unbearable, especially for the youngest, who have already suffered traumatic experiences before arriving on the mainland. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. however, we cannot yet manage the emergency: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation of children in the member states.
in writing. the greek islands off the coast of turkey have become europe's prison for those fleeing. the worst situation is that of minors, who suffer devastating physical and psychological consequences. long stays in crowded conditions, separation from siblings or other relatives, and lack of access to medical care and essential services expose the most vulnerable to violence, the risk of exploitation, abuse and irreparable harm. in samos, a month ago, the european court of human rights intervened to safeguard the physical and psychological integrity of some unaccompanied refugee children. it has ordered his prompt transfer to a place of safety, in compliance with the european convention on human rights, which prohibits inhuman and degrading treatment. three were transferred yesterday, one stayed on the island. it is no longer time to talk but to act. before other court actions, the eu should help to restore the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable refugees and to restore normalcy to islanders through a system of regular transfers, giving priority to children.
in writing. greece is facing its largest influx of migrants since 2015, when more than one million arrived in europe. in 2019, more than 60,000 migrants arrived seeking refugee status. the camps on the greek islands are overcrowded, and minors are roaming the streets with no access to food, sanitation, or electricity. we must remember that the humanitarian situation in the greek islands is the responsibility of all of us, because it is the result of a lack of solidarity. we talk so much in this parliament about european values such as equality, unity, human rights, and yet we are indifferent to the plight of those in need. and we talk a lot today about reforming asylum policy. i agree that it needs to be reformed to make the vetting of migrants more efficient. first and foremost, new procedures are needed to protect children in particular from crime, to ensure access to education and to enable unaccompanied minors to be connected smoothly to family members in other member states. politics is about finding effective solutions, and that doesn't include closing borders and condemning people to die at sea. the solution is to help people on the ground in their home countries, because if they can provide for their loved ones' basic needs, they won't migrate!
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the eu strategy for sustainable mobility and transport: measures for 2030 and beyond (2020/2518 ((rsp)).
madam president! we heard an interesting presentation by the european commission on its strategy for transport and mobility. i hope we can all work together to develop a coherent approach in this area. experience shows that infrastructure projects must first be approved by the member states and have secure sources of funding in order to be guaranteed to succeed. the cohesion fund and instrument c are therefore of particular importance in the context of the ongoing discussions on the new financial perspective. projects such as via carpatia and the amber rail corridor should be of the same political importance to the european commission as the other corridors of the trans-european transport network. the first speech by the president of the european commission made few references to rail transport. does the european commission therefore intend to take action, for example, to promote investment in high-speed rail and to create a european master plan for the high-speed rail network in the european union? if you're planning action, what is it and when?
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i wanted to thank you very much for mentioning road accidents in your speech. i'm the next congressman to speak on this. understanding the need to build a low-emission, environmentally friendly transport system, we cannot forget that in 2017, 25 thousand people died on the roads in the european union, unfortunately most of them in romania, bulgaria and also in my country, poland. the opportunity for the commissioner, the opportunity for all of us, is to build the via carpathia corridor - a much-needed north-south corridor that will allow people and goods to move faster and better between north and south. you have a huge field to cover here. i encourage you to support this project and consider all the issues related to everyday mortality. 25,000 funerals a year is a disgrace to the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, i say to the house: thank you for this interesting debate and the pertinent comments. i have carefully noted them and am very much encouraged by your interest in the subject. i do recognise what you are saying on all the ideas. we are working on them in the commission in order to put forward this strategy by the end of the year. all the points are valid. and, as i said at the beginning, for this strategy to be successful we need to have everyone on board. so it needs to be just, and it needs to how create new jobs, it has to be accepted. and this will be part of our thinking. listening to you all, it also becomes very clear that there are baskets of measures for each mode. there is not merely one solution for everything, and we have to carefully blend and balance several measures in order to achieve smoothly the best possible outcome in the short term. because people are expecting to see results rather quickly from our work on the sustainability of transport. many of you stressed the importance of the ten-t infrastructure. and i can only say that i share this view, where it is needed, because it is incomplete, be it for various modes of cross-border interconnection. we know that we need to do more there in order to help create the missing links, which are not necessarily economically sustainable. and this would be the role of the european union to add and support the missing links. and why not eliminate the barriers, which are cross-border, in order to make flows easier? the commission announced – or at least i’m telling you – that we’re are going to revise the tem-t infrastructure in 2021. many members mentioned alternative fuels infrastructure and alternative fuels as such. i think this is also very much in connection with aviation, which was intensely mentioned. we have to keep in mind that both aviation and maritime transport are global businesses. once more, we need to understand there are baskets of measures, there are technological advances and there are alternative fuels. we need to very carefully look into them and into the market and the volume of this kind of fuels on the market, so that they could have an important uptake. but these are all things we are looking at. a lot of you talked about implementation. of course it is all for nothing if we adopt legislation which is not implemented in the end. so many countries are very late in implementing important things in regulation. we could mention railway signalling as just one example. many members mentioned the fact that there are files which are blocked by the council. i hope i can assure you that, for example, the single european sky is something i’m trying to lobby for and promote in each meeting i have with any representative of the member states. we have it on the table and we’d like very much to see it moved forward by the croatian presidency. this is something i’m insisting on, and i really hope we will have movement here. the same is true with the eurovignette, we haven’t withdrawn the eurovignette, we are trying to lobby for it in order to benefit from all the good work done. we have to push forward so that the council will have a general approach – hopefully – by june. because the eurovignette or the single european sky are the kind of things which will make a difference in road transport or improving the efficiency of air traffic. and this will have a concrete impact on sustainability and on the reduction of emissions or on internalising the externalities in road transport. road safety was mentioned. of course, road safety has to be at the core of our activity. and what we are going to propose, or work on, is a safe system, which is an integrated approach towards safety in transport. because, as was mentioned by several people here, there are so many elements which together constitute the environment for safety in transport. all this needs to be taken into account. all the ideas i heard are very good. and the last word would be on the fact that all the industries in connection with transport as such are the backbone of our economy. we need to make it more sustainable and smart, but keep in mind that it is competitive and it has to remain as such. and for this industry – as it was mentioned – we need measures which are predictable so people will know, investors will know, what it coming so they can plan in advance for 10 or 20 years. i also had some particular questions from mr schulze on low-emission zones or the harmonising of vignette systems. this is something we are working on. because the idea of having low-emission zones is good. yes it is, but it is true that for people moving around not knowing the system is a deterrent or an obstacle. so what we are looking at is to propose a harmonisation of these systems for urban areas. for the eurovignette, we have already said that we would like to support the eurovignette. the question on inland waterways raised by mr băsescu: inland waterways need to become the new big thing because i think they are underused. you are absolutely right, because inland waterways together with transport with rail are the most sustainable modes we have. and new progress on inland waterways is needed in terms of sustainability of the ports and the vessels and new intelligent traffic systems. all these are there, we are looking into them. and you are right that the danube commission, which is 70 years old – or something similar, you know would know better – has a different regulation. but i promise you, we are going to look into harmonisation. i think because they are non-eu members it is not easy but it is absolutely needed. so thank you very much for the suggestion. so this would be, honourable members, in a nutshell, my reaction to your comments. i trust that you will get involved in the work on such a sustainable transport system for the future. and, madam president, consider this my invitation to you to contribute to this work. so thank you very much and i hope will have new occasions to go more in depth on each of the subjects touched upon this evening.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. it is clear that transport-related air pollution is one of the causes of climate change and that this sector must be involved in finding solutions. the transport modes we know today are about to undergo major changes, and the eu institutions have a major role to play in shaping the direction of these changes. however, it is also important to emphasise that transport plays a key role in our daily lives and is the backbone of the european economy. therefore, the eu transport strategy should be given priority attention. the strategy papers being drawn up should take account of differences between member states in order to offer solutions that do not reinforce the fragmentation or create new differences between the union's developed and less developed regions. i believe that there is no one-size-fits-all solution, but rather that there are different solutions to different situations, but that the end goal is the same. secondly, and perhaps most importantly, i want to say that the burden of the green transition must be proportionate and fair, not just another burden on citizens. everyone should contribute to the solution to the extent that they have contributed to the problem.
in writing. the free movement of persons, goods and services is one of the foundations of eu citizenship. the potential of free movement is made possible by the efficient operation of services in the mobility and transport sectors. according to the latest figures from the european commission, the transport industry accounts for over 6% of the european union's gdp, employing almost 13 million people. in my home country poland transport accounts for around 9% of national gdp, generating around eur 30 billion (pln 125 billion) of gross value added. it is undoubtedly one of the most important sectors of the eu economy. in the light of the ambitious challenges facing the full implementation of the green deal, the european union should prioritise the preparation of short-term and long-term transport and mobility strategies. there is no doubt that reducing co2 and other greenhouse gases requires the commitment of all of us: legislators, businesses and citizens. given the challenges facing european businesses, the european union should also clearly define the funds for sectoral transformation, market protection and innovation. only then will we be able to achieve climate results combined with the prosperity and protection of european businesses.
in writing. the success of the european green deal is in the common interest of all of us. a key component of this is the development of a fair and sustainable mobility strategy. i believe there are three conditions for success. the first is the proper understanding of sustainability. sustainable development has an ecological component, but also an economic and social dimension. the strategy should therefore focus on the impact of measures on jobs and competitiveness, alongside climate ambitions. the second is to respect the principle of technological neutrality. the member states of the union have different capacities and transport infrastructures. to make these things sustainable, we need all the green technologies. finally, responsible action is needed to address the complexity of the challenge. in doing so, it is also worthwhile to rely on existing technological solutions and established industries. one such example is bioethanol, which, in addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, plays an important role in rural development and improving economic competitiveness.
in writing. – transport and mobility services employ around 11 million people, and the demand for mobility today is higher than ever. however, transport today generates air pollution, noise, congestion and road accidents. the sector already represents almost a quarter of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions and its emission footprint is rising. we need to prioritise clean and affordable alternatives, with an objective to have only zero emission vehicles on eu roads and make the best use of digital technologies to help reduce fuel consumption. likewise, the eu’s satellite navigation systems contribute to reducing emissions, for instance in aviation and road transport. as part of this new strategy, the cities and citizens have an important role to play, through sustainable urban planning and addressing mobility demands and infrastructure. urban areas should also be assisted in digitisation, automation and other innovative solutions and should pursue active and shared transport, from more walking and cycling to car-sharing services and car-pooling. more can and should be done from using recycled content in vehicles and transport infrastructure to reaching more circularity. for example, increasing the collection and recycling rates of electric car batteries in the eu could reduce dependence on imported raw-materials and help to retain the value of recovered materials in the eu economy.
in writing. – the overall challenge of the european mobility and transport agenda was always to enhance the system’s sustainability and competitiveness while satisfying the evolving mobility needs of society. it is thus essential to take a common approach on standards, rules and practices. unfortunately, so far, little has been done to harmonise the rules concerning the least protected and vulnerable group of road users – pedestrians, including people with disabilities or elderly people, who are one of the main victims of road accidents. in light of some member states’ legislations, for instance the polish one, the pedestrian has the priority when he or she is already on the road while in scandinavia and in the majority of western european countries pedestrians are protected and have priority even before entering the lanes. experts and representatives of polish ngos like the city is ours (miasto jest nasze) or critical walking mass (piesza masa krytyczna) agree that harmonising laws among the eu by introducing a general provision that would give priority to pedestrians as soon as they intend to enter lanes would increase safety on roads and – consequently – would reduce the number of potential road accidents involving pedestrians.
blue-card question. – in our fight against anti-eu populism, we agree. the question that i would like to ask you – because you mentioned that people in your constituency see that they are misused as a workforce – is that the european union has also offered the citizens of your constituency a huge opportunity to earn more, and people in other member states of the european union may have exactly the different point of view that you have expressed, so how do you think we can come to an agreement, making the right choice and finding the right balance?
madam president, the energy interconnection projects between portugal and spain and between spain and france, which would enable portugal to export natural gas to europe, have been removed from the european commission's list of priority projects. these projects were championed by the commission itself and were given the status of projects of common interest, taking into account their role in ensuring europe's energy security. given that at present some ten european countries are 75% dependent on russia for their natural gas supplies, the withdrawal from the list of priority projects is in itself contrary to the interests of the european union's energy security and i would very much like the european commission to explain why it has done so. finally, as regards the multiannual financial framework, which is at an impasse, we know that it is a complex negotiation, made difficult by brexit, and if there is no political decision on the multiannual financial framework in time for it to enter into force on 1 january 2021, the european parliament has already spoken out in favour of the need for a contingency plan. the question i put to the commission is clear: is cohesion policy at risk for next year? i would therefore like to ask the european commission to explain these two issues, namely the reduction of the european union's energy dependence on russia, which would be easily overcome if interconnections across the iberian peninsula were to take place, and the cohesion funds, which are obviously fundamental for the cohesion countries.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, mrs hayer, thank you for accepting the question. i agree with what you say. i would like to ask you, however, about the transparency that exists between the commission and parliament, and i will give you a concrete example and i want a concrete answer. we recently had a debate on dual quality products and the commission presented us, in summary, a report by experts paid by the commission, obviously from the budget of the european union, but refused to make available to us the report and the analysis of the experts in extenso, saying, the commission, that it is secret. it does not give us, the parliament and the internal market commission, the results of that study. do you think the commission's lack of transparency is justified? how can a study be paid for from the eu budget and not receive it... (the president interrupted the speaker)... from the committee on the budget?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's work programme is basically putting the right emphasis on the need to make the european union and our economy stronger by protecting the climate and tackling the environmental crisis at the same time. that's right, you're right. but at the same time the programme of work shows a weakness. it is very, very general and weak when it comes to the enforcement of the rule of law in europe. many citizens have lost respect for our talk that europe is a community of values and law. the european commission must not ignore the fact that fundamental rights such as freedom of the media, the fight against corruption and the strengthening of democracy are being trampled underfoot in the member states. it is not enough to keep lists, but we need enforcement and sanction mechanisms. but unfortunately, they are not clearly stated in your programme. we expect you to finally take strong action here, otherwise the citizens will lose respect for our great european union.
the presentation of the commission's work programme for the next call for proposals so far is full of rhetoric, from a socially just transition to a european green deal, to an economy in the interest of citizens, to promoting the european way of life. there is a lot of talk about how ambitious the european green deal is, but little mention is made of how much it will cost the citizens of the union. as far as an economy in the interest of citizens is concerned, well, in the interest of citizens is any economy that employs and creates products and services that meet consumer needs and support quality of life. the european economy was actually boring. the european way of life is just another in a series of romantic terms behind which is a bureaucratic definition that brussels is trying to impose on all the member states. this way of life should be the way the european people want it, not the brussels bureaucracy.
madam president, the european commission has set itself a number of ambitious objectives. but i want to draw your attention to one that i particularly care about. it is the fight against fraud in the euro grants, more powers for common control bodies and the limitation of the power and influence of the oligarchs. i am talking about this because two years ago, due to the incredible greed of certain people who are now fortunately on trial, two young lives were extinguished in slovakia: journalist ján kuciak and his girlfriend martina kušnírová. earlier, the maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia was murdered. they died because they were exposing the truth, and the criminals were afraid of losing their stolen money. many of these also came from european sources. when the union allocates resources, it has not only the right but also the obligation to control their flow and use. and enforcing the rules. i would like to see a significant shift in the protection of the financial interests of the union by the end of 2020. the commission has not only my personal support in this, but certainly the support of the whole european people's party.
madam president, commissioner, we want to become the first continent to be carbon-free by 2050 and the first continent to be sustainable and innovative in environmental protection. we will be at your side so that, together, we can achieve these goals. but i would like to share with you three concerns. the first is the budget. the european court of auditors estimates the needs for the environmental transition at over €1 billion per year. this is what the commission is planning for the next 10 years. the commission must tell us precisely how it will find the means to make this transition possible. the second concern is the question of consistency. we cannot, on the one hand, fight for the environment and, on the other, continue to sign completely insane trade agreements with regions on the other side of the world. for example, to send meat 10,000 kilometres away when the european market is saturated is an environmental aberration. finally, the third concern is paramount. the social question must be dealt with in depth. ecology and society are linked, if only by the upheaval that this change in economic model will entail. but the social question is not really addressed in your proposals and we cannot accept that.
madam president, i wish to thank vice—president šefčovič for this work programme and, in particular, the importance given to the european digital transformation. we need ambitious digital policies to allow european companies to grow and innovate in europe and for europeans to harness the benefits of the digital transformation. we need to catch up now to other big players and so that it’s us who set the standards globally. in addition to the digital services act, i welcome the proposals on artificial intelligence and data, the review of cybersecurity and a digital education action plan. deciding how we should regulate the digital world is a priority. this topic will surely not only dominate the 2020 agenda but also, i suspect, the entire mandate. we need to get it right, now, and remember the answer to our problems is not always more regulation but better regulation.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as i was able to remind you yesterday, in this house and on many occasions, the climate emergency is here. it's not here for 2025 or for 2030. action on this climate emergency must be taken now. we're not gonna save the planet with a catalogue of pretty words, i tell you. we cannot wait another year, we must start this year with strong measures, particularly in the transport sector. this sector accounts for 30% of greenhouse gas emissions. it is the only sector in europe that is not reducing these emissions. that is why, mr vice-president, i would like to see the matter closed, particularly the heavy goods vehicle charge. parliament took an ambitious stance in the last term and one would think that we would be in line with the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles for these heavy goods vehicles. well, you won't. the council, unable to reach an agreement, has torpedoed the text, and that is unacceptable. in conclusion, i urge the commission to come forward with a new strong proposal to have a 'heavyweight' fee to match.
madam president! you say the commission will be a geopolitical commission. this is what europe needs today in a competitive and changing strategic landscape, so from words to deeds. what measures will you take to stop the nord stream pipeline once and for all? a project that divides europe and increases russian pressure on our community countries. the strategic gas and oil transfers, security and development are one of the main problems of a united europe. it is worth, madam president, to refer to the values of the founding fathers as we enter the new commission. and here is the request: we want to be in the european union, we very much want to be, but we want it to be a union that first and foremost commands mutual respect among the member states, not a dictate. so what right does it have to interfere in internal affairs and internal reforms and to link these matters, which are the exclusive domain of internal countries, to the budget? this is, unfortunately, a direct route to further division. let's learn from yesterday.
president and mr šefčovič. the commission acted as a geopolitical committee, but you were silent on the first geopolitical event in iraq. and when donald trump threatened to impose punitive tariffs on the digital services tax, you were silent. our citizens have expectations about sustainability, social rights and a fair economy. but if they have to be defended, will you remain silent? the commission's plans are good and ambitious, but they will lead to conflict. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work. on each of these points, you will find us on your side, but only if you persevere. europe's social market economy is freer than china's one-party state and fairer than american cartel capitalism. we will only maintain this if we continue to fight hard for a fair, free and sustainable europe. a geopolitical committee, yes. but we need more than that: a muscle committee.
mr president, commissioner, of course, what you have presented here i believe is a programme that no one can challenge. personally, i think it's unrealistic to say that the 2020 program may be a mandate program. i agree with all the points that have been made, but i want to ask you a few questions about them. in the end, all the programmes we prepare, you, us, the council, must put the citizen at the centre and that is why i would like you to give details. regarding the cohesion programme, do you think that the measures taken in the last mandate have reduced regional disparities? what will you do now, in concrete terms, to make these disparities disappear, to bring us closer together, to make citizens have the same rights? and, about transparency, because i asked the question, i'm asking you specifically. you told us you have a solid methodology for the rule of law. can you elaborate on what a sound methodology is and if so, can you present that methodology?
mr president, vice-president šefčovič, among the priorities of the commission's work programme for 2020 are two 'new impetus for european democracy and promoting our european way of life' which concern the competences of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs which i have the honour to chair. and i remind you of some pending warrants. the first is to establish a mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights which is permanent, regular and objective and which includes all the member states. the second is to update the regulation on access to documents and transparency, which is 20 years old and is completely outdated, as well as being in breach. thirdly, that there should be a binding solidarity mechanism which updates the dublin regulation and makes full use of the budgetary chapter on migration and asylum to deal with the migration crisis and the humanitarian tragedy which is taking place in greece. fourthly, the article in the 'aid directive' which allows for the penalisation of humanitarian aid should be repealed. and finally, let there be a boost to that area of freedom, justice and security which has the solidarity bill pending with the states which have a vulnerable external border of the union.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that, in addition to many legitimate objectives, the commission should pay greater attention to labour and social issues. i am referring to the introduction of a fair minimum wage and an unemployment insurance scheme in the union. in many countries there is a minimum wage category, but this is about the ratio to the average wage, which i think should be at least 60% across the european union. i would again call on the commission to introduce a digital tax as part of its anti-fraud plan. the commission could use the existing treaty mechanisms in this respect and move away from unanimity in the member states. this seems easier to achieve than the proposed granting of the legislative initiative to parliament, which unfortunately does not seem possible without a revision of the treaty and a limitation of the commission's powers.
mr president, i’d like to continue this issue of the european union’s fight on tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. as we know, the discussion on this issue is now centred on the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd). that’s fine with us. that’s fine with me. the problem is that we cannot hope for an outcome of these discussions that will be satisfactory for us. some oecd countries will be against it. well, one thing that we can do is make our european members of the oecd find common positions, which is not always the case. so let me call on the european commission to use its political leverage to find a common position in the eu and strongly influence the outcome of the oecd discussions.
in writing. today we are debating the commission's work programme for 2020. we're talking about it the day after brexit was voted by the european parliament and becomes a fact. so this is a special time and circumstances are unprecedented. it is therefore natural to expect that we will jointly regulate as best as possible all aspects of further mutual cooperation with the united kingdom. we have a lot of very ambitious challenges, like the green deal. we are looking for solutions to a very difficult situation, such as the greek islands and the hot spots on them, which we also discussed yesterday. we face many real challenges and threats, and thousands of people are desperately waiting for help, not just on the greek islands. i therefore call on the commission not to look for alternative themes at this particular time, not to waste energy and precious time obsessively looking for violations of the principles of democracy and the rule of law where they have long been present and not threatened. it is incomprehensible to me and to millions of my countrymen that double standards should be applied to countries such as france and germany, and to poland and hungary. we should concentrate our time and energy on facing the real problems we face as the european union, rather than resorting to stigmatising certain countries within the community at all costs.
in writing. i am pleased that the president of the commission has stressed that progress and reform in europe is conditional on building an inclusive society, one based on solidarity and respect for the rights of all citizens. i will be following with great interest the work on the action plan on integration and inclusion. i very much hope that the commission will work closely with parliament in this area. i expect that an important part of the action plan will be to work towards respecting the rights of people with disabilities and to remove barriers to access for this group of over a hundred million citizens to inclusive education, employment in an open labour market, cultural goods and services and technologies that support independent living. i also believe that the action plan will be linked to the work on the post-2020 disability strategy and the crpd. i am also very interested in the report on the effects of demographic change and the work on the green paper on ageing. i would like to point out that when planning the development of a digital europe, it is important to take into account that new technological solutions do not contribute to the exclusion of older people, limiting their professional, social and independent activities. on the contrary, the development of new technologies should be geared towards equalising opportunities and compensating for the deficits associated with age or disability. i believe that the work on the new skills programme should include activities for older people.
madam president, i supported this agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union not because i like it, not because it is good, but because it is the only possible agreement and there is no other solution in this case. the first thing we need most is a calm tone, a pragmatic conversation about what the future relationship should be between the european union and the united kingdom. we need an orderly brexit. the second thing we need is to continue the good dialogue and the aim is to have a comprehensive and deep relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. there are many questions, but the main one. can we have a comprehensive relationship with the united kingdom when we only have 11 months to negotiate it? and the answer here, i think, is one. it's not gonna happen. and my concern comes from that. we will certainly discuss the important issues of security, environmental issues that we face, economic relations and others. but at the same time, the issue of citizens' rights - both british and european - must be on our agenda. it's extremely important, and i'm going to continue to work on it.
madam president, it was a sad day yesterday when the withdrawal agreement was approved by this parliament. it was approved with a handsome majority and, sadly, we will leave the european union tomorrow, but we will do so without my endorsement. i could not bring myself to vote for that agreement yesterday. but i accept the course of events. i accept that, sadly, we now leave the european union. but if i can accept that, those who’ve championed the cause of brexit in the conservative party and indeed in the brexit party as well, you must now accept full responsibility for what happens next and what follows from here. i genuinely now believe and hope that a path can be charted, a path can be trod that makes this work somehow for our country, but i genuinely fear that is an impossible challenge, an impossible task.
(start of speech off mike) ... kingdom’s withdrawal from the european union is a very unwelcome occurrence for the integration process of the union. the uk has been a very valuable member of the european union for many years. even if there is sound evidence that during the vote leave campaign, a huge number of demonstrably false claims were made and fake news spread, the british people decided and now we have to look to the future, and i’m sure as a european federalist from silesia that the future of the uk is in the european union. we must be always ready for the uk to return. we cannot fail in assuring the scottish, the welsh, the irish and the english that the arms of the european union are open to welcome them back. the last few words for all my friends from the united kingdom: you will never walk alone.
madam president, few votes are historic in the european parliament, but there was one on 29 january to ratify the brexit agreement, and i am proud to have voted in favour of it. brexit had to be accepted because it had to respect the sovereignty of the british people who absolutely wanted it. the british people are admirable, and have once again demonstrated their legendary capacity for endurance in the face of adversity. he had to vote no less than three times to get his brexit: once in 2016 by referendum, a second time in may 2019 by massively electing the brexit party candidates to the european parliament, and a third time in december 2019 by giving boris johnson the parliamentary majority he needed. each time, he resolutely resisted the europeanist propaganda and broke down the vain attempts to obstruct juncker, tusk and other verhofstadt. well done, my dear british friends, and good luck in this new phase of your national history!
madam president! i voted for the deal because it removes the risk of legal chaos that would follow a hard brexit. it also guarantees the rights of eu citizens in the uk, including my polish compatriots, who are the largest national minority in the islands. the uk's departure is undoubtedly a very sad moment for all those who are in favour of integration. but sometimes you have to take a step back to go forward again. i voted in favour of the agreement because it ensures that, for as long as it is in force, the law of the european union, including the judgments of the court of justice, will prevail in the united kingdom. i think this is a clear message of how all member states, not just the departing country but even more so those countries which are still forming the european union, should behave in respect of their treaty obligations and the duty of loyal cooperation.
madam president, i wanted to explain why i voted against the withdrawal agreement and that’s not because i don’t appreciate the work of michel barnier and our team; i think it was the only shape of the withdrawal agreement that is possible. i voted against because i think brexit is a bad idea and that was the only way to give witness to that for our successors. it’s a bad idea; a result of 30 years of hounding against the eu in the british press, of misrepresenting the european union and the cowardice of british politicians. and i just have one request to people who brought it about: that whatever now happens in britain, or between britain and the european union, you brought it about, you voted for it, you own it. don’t blame us for what’s about to happen.
madam president! yesterday i voted in accordance with the will of the people of the united kingdom. we in poland know what sovereignty is, and that is why we respect the sovereign decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we in poland also remember well that it was in england that one of the key documents on civil liberties, the great charter of freedoms, was created. that was 805 years ago, but tomorrow is another day. tomorrow also marks the beginning of the transition period and we can do a great deal of good in this parliament for the very good relations between the european union and the european parliament. i will urge polish mps (because there will be circumstances where national parliaments will regulate the relationship between the uk and national parliaments) to make sure that the relationship is as good as it can be. and to you, the representatives of the british people, i wish you all the best and take care of those poles who are part of the british economy.
madam president! i am the author of the ecr resolution on the pay gap and this problem is not only noticed in the european parliament. women's earnings are still 16% lower than men's in the european union on average. poland, which i have the honour to represent in the european parliament, has one of the lowest rates of this gap among the member states. my resolution called for a strengthening of efforts to enforce the principle of equal pay for equal work at national level. i noticed that women are more likely than men to have the responsibility of caring for children and sick family members. women are more likely to choose parttime work because they try to combine work with family responsibilities. unfortunately, you voted against this resolution and supported a resolution which violates the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and points to solutions harmful to business.
madam president! i supported the resolution because the union must take action to eliminate unjustified gender pay differentials. official figures show, as already mentioned, that women in the european union earn about 16% less than men. this means that compared to men, they work for two months without pay. the reasons for this are varied, with women working more part-time, facing a barrier to promotion and often having primary responsibility for childcare. consequently, although the principle of equality between women and men is one of the union's fundamental values, it is de facto very limited. we therefore need to take action that will deliver concrete results by tackling occupational and sectoral segregation, strengthening the rights of working parents and carers, and implementing other measures that will close the gender pay gap.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy. this has been emphasized here many times. but numerous internal and external constraints, such as bureaucracy or strict business rules, can and do make running a small business very difficult for entrepreneurs. creating a business-friendly regulatory environment is a long-term objective of the european union. but what does it look like in practice? in practice, however, the union is creating a mobility package which is killing off competition between companies in the transport sector and causing thousands of transport companies, such as my own in poland, to go out of business, while increasing transport costs between member states. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. experts estimate that deregulation and liberalisation, for example in the services sector, would boost the european economy by 1.8%. and that is the direction that the european economy should be heading towards today, towards opening up sectors and deregulation.
mr president, commissioner, small and mediumsized enterprises are the foundation of the european economy. however, they are still subject to a huge, sometimes antagonistic, national, regional and european bureaucracy. it is essential to promote simplification. i therefore welcome the commission's commitment to the central objective of reducing the bureaucratic and regulatory burdens which hamper the economic development of smes. in addition to the regulatory framework, there are other factors which determine the success of companies. the need to create a genuine european internal market, which would give businesses in the various member states the opportunity to establish themselves on equal terms, is obvious. access to european funds must also be transparent, with more information and simpler rules. we should promote compatibility between the rules of the different funds, such as horizon europe and regional programmes, in order to maximise opportunities for smes. in short, less bureaucracy, a larger and more open market, better access to funds. three challenges to give smes the conditions they deserve.
mr president, small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy and their well-being is of paramount importance to the union, the member states and european societies. to ensure that such enterprises prosper, it is important to create a good business climate, keep the tax burden within reasonable limits, facilitate their joint participation in public procurement procedures, reduce the administrative burden and strengthen lifelong learning and make it available to their employees. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy. high administrative requirements and parafiscal charges are serious obstacles to the development of entrepreneurship and it is therefore important to carry out an impact assessment for each new regulation. the best the european union and its member states can do for smes is to get out of the way. that's why i support all initiatives that have deregulation and ease of doing business at their core.
mr president, i think it is very important that the european commission, when drawing up its programme, should include the subject of small and mediumsized enterprises among its priorities. we know that these companies are a key part of our economy and they're also the most vulnerable. i know from discussions with entrepreneurs, which i regularly have as president of sm europe, that one of the main obstacles to their business development is bureaucracy. and not just at the national level, but at the european level. we know that a small business owner has enough to do to run their business, and they don't have the time or the appetite to keep track of everything new that's being received. i therefore welcome the european commission's anti-bureaucratic initiative, the 'one in, one out' principle, whereby one new regulation cancels out an existing one, but we should not stop there. small business owners need much more support. first, they need better access to investment capital, assistance for exports outside the union and, last but not least, access to public procurement with a guarantee that they will be paid for their work. secondly, they also need a helping hand in the transition to the digital economy, because they do not have the human or technical capacity to do so. thirdly, they need to learn and develop, and it is important to extend the programmes that enable them to do so. i can only mention 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' for all of them. small entrepreneurs often go to the bottom of their strength to develop their businesses, employ people, create value and benefit society as a whole, so it is our duty to help them.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. small and medium-sized enterprises face a variety of challenges. we must support them with a new strategy, lend them a helping hand by financing objectives which will be useful for the future of the european union as a whole. one of the commission's main objectives is now to set up a climate-neutral plan, which is extremely ambitious. we need to support smes to get involved in new initiatives, innovation, green technologies, environmental education and the development of the circular economy. there are not enough subsidies for existing companies. we allocate eu funds to the unemployed, to start businesses, but in many countries unemployment is no longer a problem. the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the sustainability of jobs in smes are becoming a problem. the sme sector lacks the money to develop further and take ambitious action to ensure fair competition, as is best illustrated by their average lifespan. increasing the amount of grants for projects for smes will allow them to better exploit their potential. we must therefore do everything we can to support these companies and their activities so that they can operate in a fair competitive environment.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises are a very important part of the economy, they are the foundation of the economy, and 99% of companies both in poland and in the european union belong to this sector. this segment is a leader in job creation, so it is crucial that eu regulations are simple, transparent and stimulate competitiveness and innovation. the key at eu level is to maintain free markets and equal rules for all member states, rather than trying to impose bureaucratic barriers to the functioning of the sme sector. a prime example of how the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises have been effectively taken care of is poland, where the current government has introduced a number of facilitations and transparent rules for the sector. the constitution for business, the institution of the ombudsman for small and medium-sized enterprises, the numerous simplifications in the conduct of business and the fiscal reliefs for those who start a business as well as those who already run their own business are worth mentioning. better regulation for smes is a guarantee of europe's economic success. let's make sure that happens.
in writing. smes account for 99.8% of all enterprises in poland and 90% in europe as a whole. small businesses don't have the resources or time to respond to new regulatory burdens on an ongoing basis. the entrepreneur needs a stable law, simple and understandable rules. the law cannot be made by officials alone. we need to think small and listen to entrepreneurs at every stage of the legislative process. before we introduce a new burden, let's apply the one-on-one rule and remove the old one. let us look to the member states for good practice. in poland, we have introduced the 'business constitution', which is the foundation for changing the legal environment for companies, and the 'simple language' initiative in offices. a black book on internal barriers that are burdensome for businesses has also been drawn up. good regulation can only be achieved through dialogue between officials and businesses. better law means sustainable development and the well-being of every citizen of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the attempt to stop the fourth pci list shows ideological blindness. the list is the result of 18 months of consultation with various stakeholders, including representatives of consumer and environmental organisations. it was de facto approved by the itre committee by rejecting the blocking resolution by a large majority. opponents of this list should simply respect this result, especially since the data on energy production is unambiguous. according to a new study by the think tanks agora energiewende and sandbag, coal-fired power generation in the european union fell by 24% in 2019. about half of the energy production has been replaced by renewable energy sources, but the other half has been replaced by gas. these figures clearly show that even the most ambitious plans cannot leave gas behind. central and eastern european countries understand this logic. their energy basket can't be changed overnight. the gas will be here for decades to come, whether you like it or not. it's still ideological, you know? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! in poland, they say that roses don't hurt when the forest is on fire, so together we should put out this forest fire. i emphasize, together. and i hope that's the kind of intention that shines through to all of us here. of course, brexit was not meant to be. as the european union and the united kingdom, we're going to be cooperating a little bit, competing a little bit. but one of our first needs as europeans is security. so would the commissioner like to say a few words on the subject? i'm referring specifically to external security. do you see any danger in this area? because it's very important to all of us.
in writing. britain's departure from the eu is not a joy, but it is an accomplishment. the focus now must be on the eu-uk agreement to be concluded. no taxes and quotas is a principle that would be beneficial to both sides. it is important to respect product standards in order to have fair competition and consumer safety. economic partnership, security and respect for the principles of non-discrimination and full reciprocity in the field of mobility are things that need to be included in the agreement. land and european transport must be addressed ambitiously in the agreement negotiated with the uk and optimal solutions on these issues must be identified. citizens' rights must be respected and must be placed first in the withdrawal agreement.
in writing. the eu's future partnership with the uk must be based on a level playing field and the strongest possible association agreement should be based on economic partnership, external partnership and sectoral issues. the acp, like the 'third country', cannot enjoy the same advantages as eu member states and the integrity of the single market and customs union must be ensured in all circumstances. furthermore, britain's competition with the eu must be open and fair, which means guaranteeing equal standards in social protection, environmental protection, taxation, state aid, consumer protection and climate. this also means a 'dynamic harmonisation' of uk and eu legislation. we also ask the ep for uk guarantees on citizens' rights and freedom of movement, on data protection, financial services, the situation in ireland and the role of the european court of justice in resolving disputes.
in writing. – in the discussions concerning future relations between the european union and great britain we have to remember that we are talking not only about the economy, not only about capital flows, taxes or physical borders. we are also talking about education, culture and exchange of scientific research. we should create such conditions in which the latter are not hindered by the mere fact that great britain is not a member of the eu anymore. most young people in great britain voted against brexit – some polls say that 7 out of ten young britons, aged from 18 to 24 years of age, voted against it. thus, it is my strong belief that great britain should be as closely involved in programmes like erasmus+, creative europe, horizon europe etc. as possible. if the bridge between the eu and the great britain is to connect and be ready for a future come-back of great britain to the eu, it has to be open. as a former erasmus student myself i can testify to the power of such connections first-hand.
madam president! i am in favour of free trade and therefore i will of course support the conclusion of this agreement. i have only one doubt, and i'm asking for an answer if possible. it is expected that the import of foodstuffs from vietnam into the european union will increase after the entry into force of this agreement. now it's fifth or fourth position, in the future there may be many more of these goods. i would therefore like to ask whether the european union is prepared to control the flow of this high-quality food? will there be disruption to the food market caused by smuggling or illegal transfer of inferior food to europe?
mr. chairman, please! i was listening to this debate today, with the supporters of president trump's plan on one side and the opponents of the plan on the other. very little concrete, and that's where the drama is. anyone who has been to jerusalem, even if only to talk, knows that there are many, many of these dramas and that a new generation is actually growing up, which we can call the lost generation again, because it is being prepared to fight with each other, not to coexist with each other on both sides. mr. representative, you said you had a lot of conversations with your partners in the united states. tell me who you've had these conversations with and what the conclusions of those conversations are. a constructive plan is very much needed. anyone who can think of a plan and come up with designs, proposals, can bring us closer to finally having peace in this region. that's why i think, mr. representative, that... (speaker withdraws)
madam president! we're dealing with a great drama and a thousand problems. i meant three. firstly, there is a humanitarian crisis and more than a million refugees fleeing the war in turkey. these people are nomads on the turkish border. secondly, the illegal turkish invasion of syria, which neither prevents military action nor plays any role in humanitarian aid. finally, thirdly, turkey's arming of the successors of al-qaeda in syria and other terrorist organisations. because every time turkey is here, it's a cue for the european union to negotiate and put pressure on turkey. we must also firmly oppose the persecution of the kurdish population, the mass displacement, the looting and the war crimes committed by the jihadists armed and financed by turkey against this hard-hit nation.
madam president, to be clear, mr borrell, i am not a fan of the assad regime, whose hands are soaked in blood. but, listening to some of the views today, i think there is a confusion. i thought up until now that we had made a unanimous decision that our goal and the goal of the west, of the civilized world, is to defeat the islamic state and the jihadists. if that's changed, somebody say so publicly. so the question is, who is funding the jihadists? who sends troops to continue their slaughter? who's been funding them for years? he has a name; he is the new sultan in ankara and his name is recep erdoğan. this is our big problem, and we're not saying this because we condone assad's crimes. it is because we have the courage to speak the truth; because we believe in european values.
madam president, mr. representative, i have to ask you to stop this. i agree with what you said at the beginning, that there is a humanitarian catastrophe in syria, as well as in the neighboring countries. there are about 10,000 orphans in aleppo alone who need immediate support. my country is involved. in addition to the contributions to the european union's agendas, as we have promised, it is also committing additional funds to humanitarian aid, particularly in syria, lebanon and jordan. so i think what you said (that aid is an investment) is important, but we need to be told today, and it is very important, that the union is the biggest donor. i would also like to say that we have information that out of the one and a half million christians in syria, there are only a little over two hundred thousand left and their situation is very dramatic. we have to rely on the ngos, on the missionaries, on those people from the church who are doing the big relief work there, on the prosthetics for the children, on the medical aid. this is a great call to the world, and bashar al-assad has actually won this war.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the oral question to the commission by mr tomás tobé, on behalf of the committee on development, on the new eu-africa comprehensive strategy (o-000007/2020 b9-0006/2020) (2020/2500 ((rsp)).
madam president, africa, this neighboring continent, has to be a priority. we must contribute to their peace and security, to their development, to the improvement of the institutions of african countries and also to the training of their youth. it is also important that the migratory flows from africa are orderly. it is a continent, as we know, with a huge demographic challenge. we need a new strategy for africa and also that the eu-africa summit next semester is a major milestone. i am referring to the southern shore of the mediterranean, our southern neighbour, the nearest. it is 25 years since the so-called barcelona process, but we have not been able to build the space of shared prosperity, stability and freedom that we sought. i would even go so far as to say that in some cases the european union's presence has been reduced. what foreign powers are in syria? who's in the lead in libya? does the european union have a role to play in the middle east peace process? the answers don't help the optimism. i repeat, we must redouble our efforts in africa and particularly in the southern mediterranean.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. thank you for your new approach and new strategy for africa. this strategy is desperately needed. we discussed this at the deve committee, and thank you. it focuses like a lens: tribal wars, unemployment, poverty, lack of prospects for young people, which is unfortunately the source of illegal immigration. a very important phenomenon that is still observed in africa today is primarily human trafficking. in poland, last friday, we launched a major fundraising campaign through two organizations, aid to the church in need and the haart foundation, to support people who are breaking free from this powerful practice. we know that the same needs are being met by children who are being sold into slavery. and these are often five-year-old girls who are sold into sexual slavery. there are countries like kenya where there are markets and people are still being sold. a young boy costs three hundred dollars. commissioner, i think it is worth including this issue in our strategy for africa, the union's strategy. we can't be active where human trafficking is legal.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. dear colleagues! the new eu-africa strategy must be adapted to the changing political and environmental situation. human rights and democracy must be the foundation of this, and of all relations and agreements. in order to promote freedom of expression and democratic standards, it is essential to deepen political dialogue and cooperation with the african union. the strategy should focus on improving security, peace, poverty reduction, good education and health, and the fight against terrorism and human trafficking. to this end, it is necessary to launch financial assistance for countries facing these fundamental problems. we can't forget about the climate action. the european union should continue to support the african renewable energy initiative.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me thank you for this constructive exchange. i have to say that i’m confident in our ability to build a new strategic and fruitful partnership with africa which is focused on sustainable development. your contribution to the strategy is key in the process of shaping its basis. the commission, together with the european external action service, are still drafting the strategy in order to make it as comprehensive as possible. dear members of parliament, please be assured your comments here today have been noted. i am especially happy that so many of you mentioned youth and young people. the strategy will constitute a significant change in strengthening our partnership with africa. the strategy will work towards fighting global challenges that both our continents simply cannot, and must not, ignore. 2020 will be a pivotal year for the africa-europe partnership. we agreed with the acp chief negotiator, the minister of foreign affairs of togo, professor robert dussey, that we will aim at closing the post-cotonou negotiations by the end of march, and we will hold in the run up to the african union-european union summit a number of side events, with the main stakeholders all providing opportunities to design our partnership together. we will also strive to ensure that we will dispose of the right means to implement our policies by facilitating the agreement of the mmf in good time. we need to join forces as institutions to deliver on these important milestones. only together – only together – we can create sustainable safe and peaceful communities in which our planet can recover and all of us can learn, work, grow and build fulfilling lives. i am really looking forward to continuing our fruitful exchange.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. europe's security and future depend on the african continent. our goal must be to keep the sahel stable. all political, economic and humanitarian support must be given to the countries concerned, which are the guarantors of stability and prevent the crisis from spreading. infrastructure development is needed to improve the quality of life of local people, in particular the functioning of the health, irrigation, food and water systems of the countries concerned. for example, by giving a community a water purification system, we can help improve the quality of life for thousands of people. hungary is leading the way in this effort through its humanitarian aid programme hungary helps, with the eur 16 million drinking water development programme in uganda setting an example. the eu's resources should be used to tackle the root causes of the migration crisis, helping where the problems are, not bringing the problems to europe. with a viable african vision, people would not risk their lives and the lives of their children to go to europe. africa's problems can only be solved in africa, and europe must take a leading role in helping the african population stay put.
in writing. - my dear fellow members of the house of representatives. the population, the geography, the political transformation of africa must make europe a strategic partner and ally of the first order. the biggest challenge currently connecting the two continents is migration. to tackle the root causes of migration, we must first of all help to create security in african countries, and contribute to poverty eradication, job creation and, in short, sustainable development. education must be the primary means of doing this. access to quality education is the key to having a horizontal impact on all sectors simultaneously. through education, we empower people in developing countries to help their own communities in their own countries. in addition to primary and secondary education, we must not forget higher education, which is the engine of innovation. and the best way to help is through scholarship programs, which is what hungary does. the new comprehensive eu-africa strategy should offer a solution to tackle the drivers of migration and contribute to sustainable development in africa, both economically and socially. the main source of funds for this will be the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) in the commission's hands, which will provide almost eur 30 billion for the development of the sub-saharan region. i hope this huge resource will be able to make a real difference in sustainability in africa.
in writing. the european union's relations with african countries have a very long history, dating back to the treaty establishing the european economic community. africa is currently undergoing a dynamic geopolitical and economic transformation, with an increasingly important role in international politics. it is a good time to try to balance our commitment to the region and to indicate the directions of possible change. that is why i am very pleased with the vision of our future cooperation set out in the eu-africa strategy. we should build it on our shared values and develop economic relations on a partnership basis. our common goal is to ensure safety and prosperity. an example of a country with great potential for developing our cooperation in this area is zambia, which has experienced impressive economic growth of 7.4% per year on average between 2004 and 2014. african countries now offer us a huge space for our activities, including agriculture, research and education. however, we must ensure that the eu-africa strategy leaves no one behind. i hope we will do our utmost to increase strategic investment and strengthen the role of the private sector in job creation. i would like to stress the extremely important role of investing in human capital through the development of education, support for local entrepreneurship and innovative solutions. it's human capital that is the key to africa's development.
in writing. i am pleased that the new eu-africa strategy will be developed in partnership with african countries, i.e. based on the principles of equality, partnership and shared responsibility. it means we can learn from the past when the donor-recipient relationship didn't work out. i also hope that it will be based on a deep and wide consultation with civil society, which knows the real problems on the ground and will be more involved in the implementation of aid projects. we have a lot of challenges ahead of us that we'd like to address. let us ensure that the strategy is consistent with development policies, complementary to the new cotonou partnership agreement and contributes to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. the overriding objective of development policy is to eradicate poverty and this is what development policy should aim to achieve. we also face new challenges, such as climate change, which will affect migration policy-making and humanitarian aid. peace and security should therefore be an important pillar of the strategy. we need to work together to protect the environment, including access to clean water, renewable energy, and to ensure broad access to education. our actions should activate and engage the youth! the strategy is the foundation of our relationship and its implementation requires increased oda, and it is our task to take these commitments into account in the multiannual financial framework.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on combating anti-semitism, racism and hatred in europe (2020/2561 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! indeed, this debate about the origins of anti-semitism must be based on truth. so if this is true, it's not some enigmatic nazi, not the 75th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz, but the liberation of the german nazi death camp at auschwitz. that's the first one. second, i was amazed to hear representatives of the left who were outraged at the equality between fascism and communism. to this indignant lady, i would like to quote one very mild statement of stalin about the jews. he said that the workers should be given sticks so that they could use them on the jews at the end of their work. polish communists, whose sons are also sitting in this house today as democrats, carried out anti-semitic purges in the polish army back in the 1960s. that's why we have to say, to quote the great writer zofia nałkowska, "people have made this fate for people". but anti-semitism can only be eradicated if we are very consistent, if we are truthful in our opposition to those who are behind anti-semitism in modern europe, regardless of political correctness.
the question posed by the blue card. i thank you for accepting my blue card and that perhaps this institute can learn a little more too. i was very sensitive to his comments and i have to say that he spoke to me from the heart of course, but i want to give him space to respond at the same time to the fact that racism is not limited to anti-semitism. you only spoke about jewish racism in your speech, that is, anti-semitism, but we have other forms of racism. do you see the other forms as fundamentally important and reprehensible?
mr president, as we’ve already heard, fra and eurobarometer research shows that anti-semitic abuse and violence is increasing in the eu. according to the fra survey, people cannot live a life free of worry for their own safety and the safety of their family members. but racism and anti—semitism are still denied by many politicians, media and scientists all over europe. when i was a deputy commissioner for human rights, i often heard that there is no anti—semitism in poland, while dealing with anti—semitic attacks, hate speech and violence. it is the 21st century and more and more people here in the european union feel they can treat someone differently or hate someone because of his or her religion, ethnic origin or skin colour. it is unacceptable. the european union urgently needs a strategy to fight anti—semitism, racism and xenophobia, to prevent and combat these phenomena and to protect human rights. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question for my predecessor. do you recall, when you were working alongside the ombudsman, how the police reacted to any anti-semitic excesses? i had the honor of being the minister of the interior and administration in the law and justice government and i want to emphasize very strongly that every manifestation of anti-semitism was met with an immediate reaction by the polish police and was fought. there has never been and cannot be acceptance for anti-semitism, so please do not mislead this chamber.
now we 've made two mistakes: firstly, you were the speaker, so you are no longer entitled to a 'blue card'. secondly, you have not asked a question, you have made a statement. i therefore leave it to mrs spurek to say yes or no? please, please, please.
blue-card answer. – yes, i would like to answer this non—question. nie wystarczy, że policja reaguje. nie wystarczy, że prokuratura ściga, a sądy orzekają, zwłaszcza że nie zawsze obserwowałam taką determinację, jaka jest potrzebna. zabrakło mi w czasie pełnienia przeze mnie funkcji zastępczyni rzecznika praw obywatelskich całkowitego potępienia ze strony osób sprawujących wysokie funkcje publiczne w rządzie.
mr president, when we are discussing anti-semitism today, i would like to pay tribute to the portuguese consul in bordeaux, aristides sousa mendes, a unique example of humanism on a world scale, who during the second world war was responsible for saving up to thirty thousand jews fleeing the atrocities of nazism. father of fourteen children, when portugal was a neutral country, he disobeyed the instructions of the government, which had then suspended the granting of visas to jews, continuing to grant them without distinction of race or religion. for his deed he paid the highest price. he was dismissed as consul, demoted, retired and even banned from practicing law for saving thousands of human beings from death. he lost everything and died in utter poverty, buried even with a suit donated to charity. in 1966, the holocaust memorial in jerusalem, yad vashem, honored him and awarded him the title of righteous among the nations. in portugal he was posthumously awarded the highest honours, but only recently. it is, however, worthy of worldwide recognition and certainly deserves to be rightly remembered in this european parliament as an extraordinary and superior being endowed with true humanity and love of neighbour. as a christian democrat and portuguese, i am honoured to be able to do so.
mr president, 75 years after the holocaust, anti—semitism, hatred, discrimination and xenophobia are all on the rise in europe. in my own country, poland, we have lgbt—free zones, which the parliament has rightly condemned. i’m not a jew and i’m not an lgbt person, but this does not mean that i can stay idle, for hatred and discrimination are evil. they hurt people and they destroy the very fabric of democracy, freedom and solidarity. i also think: what if it were me, if they proclaimed silesian—free zones, for example? as already mentioned, marian turski, a holocaust survivor, said the shoah did not suddenly fall from the sky: it took hold step by step, with society accepting small acts of discrimination, then bigger ones, leading to ghettos and extermination camps. we know this history in europe all too well, and we must never let it repeat. as the european parliament, we must be firm and fight hard all forms of hatred and discrimination.
mr. chairman, we're having this discussion because we're seeing a rise in anti-semitism, racism and hate speech. we don't want any further escalation, because we know that it can lead to political abuse, just as it has led to dictatorships in the past. 81 percent of the jewish population in europe today expresses concern about anti-semitism, but this is not avoided in central and eastern europe, where the muslim population is low. even in poland, 48% of citizens report feeling anti-semitic, and in hungary, 42% of citizens. how do we guard against these expressions of hatred, whether they are racist, anti-semitic, or just plain human hatred that goes against human dignity? first of all, you need to know history and also education, and i recommend ethical education, ethical education. intolerance and intolerance in public spaces of these manifestations. the vice-president of the commission has spoken of many of these instruments. then a concrete example, and i would ask to be able to cite it, because it is a concrete example of courageous speech against hate, when our cardinal duka clearly defined and defended against the hateful sign on the muslim mosque in the czech republic, and this should be appreciated.
mr. chairman, please! today, the moving talk of former auschwitz prisoner marian tursky has been mentioned several times. he showed where auschwitz came from, explained that it didn't fall from the sky. he described the mechanisms of gradual, initially innocent exclusion, stigmatization, alienation, stigmatization, then aggression, until the extermination of the other. tursky's speech is terribly topical. it shows that non-response, acquiescence, silent acceptance inevitably leads to tragedy. i always do. so the responsibility lies with all of us. not just for the haters - they need to wake up - but for all of us who watch and passively accept this. we have to say stop, we have to act decisively. it's our duty. silence is de facto consent, and then it's too late if we start treating it as normal. that's why turski appealed to everyone, regardless of religion or worldview: "don't be indifferent". that's the 11th commandment. we in parliament must not be indifferent. we cannot afford the sin of omission when minority rights are violated or space for hate-free living is limited. let us try to imagine a world without hatred.
in writing. when we talk about anti-semitism, racism or hatred, it is worth noting that today we are also increasingly faced with anti-polishism, also here in parliament. anti-polishism is seen in attempts to distort the history of world war ii, especially when it comes to "polish death camps" that never existed. anti-polishism is evident in the accusations of anti-semitism against poland. meanwhile, the simon wiesenthal center has published a list of the most anti-semitic events of 2019. the largest number of cases were in britain, france, italy, germany, sweden, denmark, and the united states. there are none in poland. before world war ii, poland had the largest jewish population in the world. they've lived on our land for over 800 years. and today, with the wave of anti-semitism in europe rising, they are once again a safe haven. poland has also been a refuge for other ethnic and religious minorities persecuted in other parts of europe for centuries. during world war ii, the actions of polish heroes such as the squadron leader witold pilecki were aimed at drawing the attention of the western world to the greatest crime in world history - the holocaust. but the world was silent. today, we cannot remain silent in the face of evil. but let us also remember that hitler's ideology rejected the values on which european civilization was based, including christian values. without these values, german democracy has become a criminal totalitarianism.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, one thing is true. there is not only one way to build a democratic system; not all legal traditions in europe are the same. but for all democratic systems there is a pre-condition, and that is that winning a majority does not mean that you can undermine rule of law and fundamental rights. i mentioned both of them, because actually both of these are currently under attack in poland. the independence of the judiciary and thus the separation of powers, which is the cornerstone of rule of law instead of the law of the ruler, but also fundamental rights, especially of those from whom they are most easy to be taken away. i believe that in our reply in the future on the discussion under the article 7 procedure and the mechanism on the rule of law and also in the future debate, we should take both of these dimensions into consideration. poland is a country in the heart of europe. without poland, this union could never be complete. polish citizens are indeed european citizens. so instead of blaming brussels or the european court of justice or whoever they want for what is going on, the polish government should actually engage in an open and constructive dialogue to solve these very urgent and important problems. and i urge you, colleagues, to also bring this message to poland. colleagues, no matter where you stand in this debate, what we have seen in smear campaigns, in hate campaigns, also against members of this parliament in poland in the past month and years, is absolutely unacceptable. we can only engage in a democratic debate if we uphold the rights of, and respect towards, the other.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. poland supports any action aimed at strengthening the rule of law framework in the european union, provided that it is directly enshrined in the treaties, respects the existing areas of competence and national identity of the member states, and is objective and non-discriminatory. i therefore regret that the european parliament is adopting a clearly political tone and is openly calling for the rule of law to be used as a tool. the polish justice system needs reform. for the last four years, the polish government has been implementing such reforms in accordance with the constitution, within the framework of the competences defined by the eu treaties and in accordance with the expectations of the poles, because they are our sovereign. we started the reform of the judiciary and we will finish the reform. it is a fact that there is a legal and political dispute in poland, but the decision on the first is up to the polish courts and tribunals, and the decision on the second is up to polish politicians. the organisation of the judiciary is an area not covered by european union law and involving the european parliament or the european commission in these matters is contrary to the fundamental principles of the union's treaties. it is also worth noting that the reforms are based on solutions that already exist and have never been challenged by the eu institutions in other member states. for example, the rules prohibiting judges from making political statements in france or the appointment of judges by politicians in the czech republic or germany are not called into question. the reform of the judiciary is expected by the majority of polish society and the polish government is acting in its interest, not in the interest of a selected social, professional or political group. unfortunately, the debate today has a political dimension. i see no reason to hold it here. we debated the rule of law in poland here three weeks ago. no substantiated facts were presented at that time to prove that the rule of law was being violated in poland. today we're back on topic. it would seem that the european parliament is trying to force such facts, such a fictitious reality, into existence. commissioner jourová was in poland at the time. it has received assurances from the most important people in the country about the will to cooperate and the readiness for dialogue, but for dialogue and cooperation to be possible, both sides must want it, and i have the impression that so far this readiness is only on the part of the polish government. for four years we have been translating from what has been working in other countries of the european union for a long time. we explain the reforms that are being introduced, following the example of other member states. poland is denied the sovereign decision-making rights under the treaties. why is this happening? i leave the answer to you, ladies and gentlemen, because it seems that parliament needs to reflect not on what is happening in poland but on what is happening here. think about why poland is criticized for solutions you know from your own countries. ask yourself why you are debating the powers that the eu treaties have given to national parliaments and not us here. finally, ask yourself if you want to continue to be used for political games that are not yours. finally, is it not your duty to prevent the european parliament from being used as a tool in the electoral struggle in any member state? poland is in the midst of an election campaign. it is very likely that the initiators of today's debate wanted to involve parliament in the process, and thus influence the outcome of the elections in poland. the eu institutions should not interfere in the electoral process in any member state. i therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, not to give in to the pressure of political frustrations which, unable to accept a democratic choice, are trying to influence the outcome. i can only apologise to you for those polish politicians who do not understand that domestic political disputes brought into the eu arena are detrimental to the community. i'm sorry about that, and i just feel embarrassed by the attitude. poland is a member of the european union, but above all it is a sovereign country and as such it has the right and the duty to look after the interests of the community and the welfare of its citizens, and this is done by the polish government in accordance with the polish constitution, in accordance with the eu treaties. we co-create the european union and share responsibility for it, just as all member states do, and we want to be treated on an equal footing. i have said many times here in the european parliament, including in the past as prime minister of poland, and i say this today as a polish mep, that poland is a country governed by the rule of law, and the polish government acts in accordance with the polish constitution and the eu treaties. poland is a member of the european union and is a sovereign country. it is and it will be.
madam president, today we speak about the rule of law in europe and particularly in poland. this is very necessary because if part of the union lacks respect for the rule of law, this affects the whole union. the problem is, however, if the eu is applying a double standard, acting in a different way depending on the country. if the rule of law in the union has to be protected, the eu institutions have to be ready to go until the end with any state. to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong is also a violation of the rule of law. people from poland that are following this debate can ask themselves: ‘and what of spain?’ why can spain ignore the committee of human rights of the united nations or the resolutions of the european court of justice? why is it okay when spain imprisons political dissidents and its constitutional court manoeuvres to delay access to the european court of human rights? seriously, to strengthen the rule of law in the european union we must finish with double standards. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr ruiz devesa, thank you, you give me a great opportunity to explain a clear example of that double standard. if i go to poland tomorrow, i am convinced that my immunity as a member of this european parliament will be respected in poland and that i will not be arrested. if i travel to spain tomorrow, i am convinced that the spanish authorities will not respect the immunity granted to me by this parliament and i will be arrested and put in prison for the rest of my life. that is exactly the attitude that does not suit europe in defending the rule of law where it is threatened.
madam president! it's not really a debate about judicial reform, because there is no such reform in poland. access to the courts is longer, fees are higher, and citizens may indeed feel let down. this is a debate about the desire to monopolize the judiciary by one party, to build a system that gives power impunity. the symbol of the last days in poland has become the party nominee, the government, who tore up the resolution, not only acting illegally, but arrogantly suggesting that he will be unpunished. that's the way the government wants to treat the constitution, the treaties of the union or any other commitment, and that cannot be allowed. this cannot be allowed in our community, because citizens have the right to expect that their rights, civil rights, human rights, will be protected, and judges are judges who do work throughout the european union for all of us, and they must also have a legal guarantee. i hear poland is being harassed by the european union. no, i won't. you're the ones who are harassing judges and poles. here's a report that concerns 64 judges illegally repressed by the disciplinary chamber, which should not be functioning. you're the ones using falsehoods and propaganda, and that's not allowed either. but i have one good piece of information for the commission: polish society has historically given a voice to those who have broken the law and wanted to be unpunished. it's the same now.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you, the ambassador, because you're from germany. you're speaking in very general terms, but let's talk about specific solutions. in the law you mentioned, in article 107 it says that for violating the law, for actions that may prevent the functioning of the judiciary in poland, the judge is disciplined. i have a translation of the german penal code, which says that a judge or other person in charge of a case can be imprisoned for between one and five years if he bends the law. i ask you, which law is the most damaging: the polish or the german?
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. your predecessor spoke about the fact that judges in poland were protesting against judicial reform. yes, they protested peacefully because the polish authorities provided security for the protesters unlike in france, where protesting lawyers were burned. that's the first one. second, where's your left-wing sensibility? who will remember the victims of the courts, including the farmer who was unjustly deprived of his life's possessions (for justice is hard to find) and who died in prison unjustly wronged? where's the rule of law?
madam president, the polish authorities seem more interested in confrontation than in compromise. we hoped that the visit of commissioner jourová would open the way to an honest, serious and transparent dialogue. instead, what we have seen is this new law that is yet another attack on the independence of the judiciary. since january of this year alone, more than forty judges have been targeted for the simple fact of not agreeing with government decisions. what kind of justice is it that haunts judges? what is the real purpose of this reform? improve the administration of justice or bring justice under political control? a judiciary under political control is incompatible with the democratic values that make us europeans. i regret to say this so bluntly, but what we see in poland is not reform, it is repression. when the independence of the judiciary is threatened, it is time for the commission, the court of justice of the european union and us to intervene. the role of the judges is to ensure that the rule of law is respected in the european union.
since pis took power, the minister of justice and prosecutor general ziobro has been destroying the polish legal system in kaczyński's name. unfortunately, it is heading for a full-scale clash with the european institutions and its own citizens. the polish government is ready to bring about another disaster: a freeze of eu funds and a slow polexite. he has one goal, of course: to protect his party interests. and that's a real threat, one that, unfortunately, ordinary citizens can pay for. fortunately, in poland there is still no sign of equality between poles and the ruling party. today, poland is a people who defend democracy and want to live in a country governed by the rule of law, and unfortunately, due to the crazy pis frenzy, they can't. so today, when we debate the rule of law, we must remember the ordinary people who, because of the inefficiency and madness of the pis government, may pay the highest price: the freezing of funds and the slow polexite. and we, the pro-democracy party, must defend the position of the poles against your madness. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. anyone who talks about polio wants nothing but trouble. i am a member of the european parliament elected from poland. i am a proud polish woman from my country, a nation with a beautiful history and beautiful people. let's not scare people with the polex. it's as possible as germany or france leaving the european union.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i am also proud of poland. i'm proud of the country that had the second oldest constitution in the world. i am proud of the country that overthrew communism, but i am ashamed that in my country there are people who are worse than the communists, because they destroyed this country more than the communists did. and that is the greatest shame of the third republic.
the commission has already done so. let me begin by saying that i feel a deep connection with the citizens of poland. i say this especially as an austrian. austrians have a great deal to owe to poland in history. we must also remember that poland suffered particularly from the ideologies of the 20th century. we must also remember that the second world war began with an invasion of poland, and austrians were also involved in this national socialist criminal state. and the robbery was based on a lie. i say this because i also want to say that the polish people do not deserve this leadership which calls into question the rule of law, which undermines the rule of law. they deserve, like all europeans, all citizens of this union, a leadership that lives by the rule of law. the people in the leadership should also think about the future, about their children and grandchildren, who deserve a state of law.
madam president, the current polish government and the so-called law and justice party proclaims the rule of law, but in fact it acts against the rule of law every day. we should look at the actions of this government, not at the statements of this government. what the polish government sells to its people as judiciary reform is in fact erosion of democracy. they call it decommunisation, but we know it is censure. they say it is modernising the system, but we all recognise it is authoritarianism. more than this, we know that poland is more than its current government. governments come and go. we know that poland is the honest judge who protects the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, despite intimidation and repression. poland is the courageous citizen who protects against the government’s attacks on the rule of law and poland is the honest and objective journalist who defies the government’s propaganda by promoting the freedom of speech. we stand with the people of poland, and to the polish government i say: listen to the people of your country. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. my dear fellow! i don't know if you're aware, but 20,000 polish citizens have come out in support of the polish government, wanting it to further reform the courts. that's the first one. secondly, i do not know whether you are familiar with the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, because you will not read in any of the articles or paragraphs the competence of the european parliament or the european commission to hold such debates. and finally, a request to the chairwoman. madam president! i ask you very much not to use epithets against any country, not to accuse or insult any country.
blue-card answer. – madam president, the question was clear: whether i know the treaty of the european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and the answer is simple: yes i do. and i also know the articles of the treaty which speak about the european values, and i also know that it is our duty to defend the rule of law in every single corner of europe, because this is a european value. and i also know about the tens of thousands of people in poland who have gone to the streets, marched for the rule of law, spoken against the government – and we are in solidarity with them.
madam president, former prime minister szydło also mentioned the czech republic in her speech. madam, i was the minister of justice for five years in the czech republic and we do not punish czech judges for their political opinions. you're wrong, we don't have such legislation, i made these laws myself. we punish judges for delays and obvious excesses, but if someone expresses their political views, they have a right to do so. he's a citizen of a democratic state of law. your law of 5 february is unfortunately a great excess, not comparable to what is needed in the czech republic or other eu states, and i also regret, as do my colleagues, that instead of trying to find a compromise and a solution, your president has unfortunately signed a law that strengthens the disciplinary responsibility of judges. instead of punishing judges for breaking the law, for being slow, for being overly obvious, you punish them for having an opinion on your reform. it's really bad editing.
(starting off from the microphone) ... in poland there were violations of the rule of law, demanding examples. well, i'll give her an example from today. the current government has been trying for years to frame former european council president donald tusk for the sham smolensk coup. his lawyer, who was also a former deputy prime minister in jaroslaw kaczyński's government, said that it would be absurd to charge him. but at the request of the current minister, he was brought before the so-called disciplinary chamber today. so the fact that a lawyer says his client is innocent is already a reason for harassment today. this is not the european understanding of the rule of law. so i thank the commissioner and the commission for trying to help us restore the rule of law in poland.
madam president, i am convinced that we share common values and common rules, and that if these values are threatened, we must respond. that's why we're here today. i think there is a clear threat to the rule of law in one country, and it's damaging our mutual trust. this kind of behavior is completely unacceptable in my opinion. i would also like to ask mrs szydło to recall her speech in this place when she was prime minister, when we were debating the constitutional reforms she was carrying out, and she told us that she would respect the venice commission's recordings. that's not what happened. the venice commission issued conclusions that were unequivocally against the polish reform. and you dare to tell us today that your reforms are in order? this kind of behavior is completely unacceptable to me. i think you should be ashamed of yourself, mrs. szydło!
madam president! i was surprised when, after meeting ursula von der leyen, the prime minister of the polish government said that the rule of law was not the subject of the meeting. how is it that the president of the european commission did not raise this issue in her meeting with the prime minister of that government? i am concerned when the croatian presidency suggests that the rule of law is not its priority, because i cannot imagine suspending the rule of law debate for six months. we know that many of the measures have failed. we know that article 7 is ineffective. we also know that without a mechanism linking the rule of law and eu funds, we will not stop the festival of constitutional violations that has been going on for years. of course, this mechanism is designed to hit the perpetrators, not the citizens. and i will keep an eye on that, but first of all, we need to be aware that the time for diplomacy is over. poles and poles expect clear statements and actions from the european commission. they are waiting for the commission to do something specific to defend polish citizens, polish judges harassed for defending the polish constitution. i'm not going to let you down. we're looking for action.
the european institutions have attacked poland for seeking to democratize its political and judicial systems. it's a sad truth we have to face. the misunderstanding that the old members and the european bureaucracy show towards the post-communist members, like poland, leads to a conflict that is in no one's interest. the old democracies must understand that without polishing the new democracies will never reach their standards. corruption and clientelism in post-communist countries are not accidental. it is a systemic error that is the consequence of the fact that parts of the old communist system have survived and as such have been integrated into the new democratic system. they prevent the light from shining on the past, they protect politicians, judges, public officials and businessmen with communist roots and they prevent the completion of the transition that unfortunately all post-communist countries desperately need.
member of the commission. – madam president, allow me to come back to certain issues raised during this debate. first, as regards the new law (because there’s a new law since our last debate some weeks ago), i would like to assure you that the commission is always open to a fair dialogue with member states to solve problems but will not hesitate to use all the tools at its disposal to ensure the respect of eu law. the new law raises concerns of compatibility with eu law, including the principle of the primacy of eu law, the requirements of judicial independence under eu law, and the right to refer questions to the european court of justice. the commission is analysing the law in detail, and in reply to comments from some members, let me reiterate that the european court of justice ruled that until the organisation of justice in the member states falls within their competence, the fact remains that when exercising that competence, the member states are required to comply with their obligations under eu law. eu law requires respect for the rule of law, in particular judicial independence. this is crucial, because polish courts are european courts and they have to ensure that polish citizens can fully enjoy their rights under eu law. this is why i’m seriously concerned by the new law, and i can assure you, as commissioner for justice, that the commission will take its responsibility as the guardian of the treaty and take all necessary measures to ensure the respect of eu law. i also note that the disciplinary chamber continues to operate, despite the rulings of the supreme court. in those rulings, following the court of justice judgment of 19 november, the supreme court concluded that the disciplinary chamber is not a court within the meaning of eu and national law. i would like to stress that preliminary rulings of the court of justice are biding and need to be fully respected. national courts must apply national law in line with the interpretation of the court of justice. notably, on 4 february 2020, the disciplinary chamber decided to suspend in office the first judge seeking to apply the ruling of the court of justice of 19 november 2019. he has also been subject to a 40% reduction of his salary. the supreme court also ruled that the national council for the judiciary is not an independent and impartial body. however, the council continues to operate. as an example, on 31 january it selected six candidates to the disciplinary chamber, two of which being current members of the national judicial council. in the light of today’s debate, let me say a few words on the situation of the constitutional tribunal. i want to recall that in its reasoned proposal of december 2017 triggering the article 7 procedure, the commission concluded that the independence and legitimacy of the constitutional tribunal are seriously undermined and consequently, the constitutionality of polish laws can no longer be effectively guaranteed. i can only note in this respect that, following the rulings of the supreme court and the european court of justice judgment, the tribunal has been seized by a number of authorities. your debate reminds me of statements warning that the current situation leads to legal chaos. i will simply reply that the remedy to such a situation is that rulings rendered by independent courts must be fully respected by all authorities. to conclude, let me add that the commission is working on a comprehensive european rule of law mechanism. it will be a preventive tool covering all member states and will provide a synthesis of significant developments related to the different components of the rule of law. it will be based on a variety of sources of information in order to reflect the reality on the ground. this will allow us to identify and prevent early on rule-of-law-related issues. this new mechanism will cover all member states in the same way. the first annual rule of law report is one of the key initiatives of the commission work programme for 2020. the preparation of this report is already in an operational phase. we have established a network of contact persons of member states which will help with its preparation. the report will also be part of the new rule-of-law cycle, with strong involvement of the european parliament and the council. however, let me be clear that this preventive mechanism does not replace response mechanisms like infringement procedures and the article 7 procedure where they prove necessary. we will continue to use all the tools at our disposal to promote and protect the rule of law in all the member states, including poland.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me stress once again that the presidency, and the council as a whole, attach great importance to upholding the rule of law and protecting fundamental rights. they are at the heart of our concerns. i can assure you that the presidency will pay particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate. on the next steps regarding the article 7 procedure in the council, although the rule of law is one of the priorities of the croatian presidency, the presidency cannot prejudge the council’s deliberations nor the outcome of the procedure. the council will continue to follow developments closely and will remain to be seized of this issue at the upcoming general affairs council meeting.
madam president, i believe that this issue will not be so explosive and that we will have a much higher degree of unity and understanding across political factions. the oral questions to the commission and the council and the subsequent motion for a resolution on the illegal trade in eu pet animals. i mean, we're building on the work of my colleague renata sommer from the last term. parliament has already passed a number of resolutions on this subject in the previous term, but words and a well-written text of a resolution are not enough, and i think we must move on to action. i would therefore urge the commission and the member states to listen carefully and to respond quickly and effectively. this is a matter of real concern to anyone who is not indifferent to the suffering of illegally kept animals. there are millions of consumers who are affected, and of course there are millions of animals who are affected, also in terms of the welfare they are supposed to be kept in. unfortunately, smugglers today face almost no obstacles, and they are the ones who make the most money. this illegal trade in animals, ladies and gentlemen, is the third most lucrative illegal business after the sale of guns and drugs. the problem is particularly acute in the countries of central and eastern europe, where so-called breeding facilities, where dogs and cats are kept in really terrible conditions with the prospect of quick and easy money, are a huge problem. unfortunately, consumers are also deceived, and very often they are not interested in the origin of the animal or are even given false information. illegal breeders also use various very sophisticated tricks to entice potential buyers to buy puppies or cats from the breeding center. unfortunately, they are often heard about because they are able to obtain a pet that is in high demand very quickly and often at a lower price. paradoxically, in a situation where dog shelters are overrun with other, better quality dogs. at the same time, it is necessary to be prepared for the fact that, despite the tightening of the rules, illegal farmers will find ways to circumvent them. if you're not convinced that the kennels are releasing sick or susceptible animals into the world, i suggest you look to our neighbors across the atlantic to the united states, where they're currently dealing with an epidemic of disease that's resistant to most antibiotics and that's just linked to the kennel puppies. the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention reported in january that at least 30 people had also contracted the highly infectious disease. it is important to remember that, in addition to the negative impacts on the animals themselves, the illegal trade in pet animals also has wider implications, for example, on our single internal market, the protection of the consumer who is unknowingly buying sick and traumatised animals. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to develop strategies to regulate online advertising of pet animals in order to suppress misleading advertising and better control the online sale of cats and dogs. i think it is now quite clear that the unethical treatment of pets is indeed a european problem which also requires a european solution, the problem is indeed transnational. this solution should include universal and mandatory marking of pets, their shared registration, which will also make not only pets for sale but also all stray animals traceable, and of course stricter conditions for keeping them. the suffering of animals in illegal breeding and subsequent transport across europe, which affects hundreds of thousands of puppies and kittens a year, must of course also be stopped. this will not be possible without rigorous checks, which are currently, unfortunately, toothless. it is the wild breeding facilities in veterinarians' homes that are often overlooked, of course, only the registered breeding stations. there's a lot that needs to be done to improve the situation, and that's why i appreciate good negotiations with my colleagues. there are several key changes proposed that would be a major step forward in the fight against illegal pet ownership. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to really pay due attention to this problem and to speak out clearly and decisively in defence of those who cannot defend themselves.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, in the recent years the illegal trade in companion animals has become a growing challenge for member states’ competent authorities, and it has also raised concerns among eu citizens. the main difficulty relates to the abuse of the so-called ‘pet travel scheme’, the rapid development of online sales of companion animals and the risk associated with these activities. indeed, we all know that illegal trade in pets may have negative consequences, not only in terms of public health and consumer protection, but also for animal welfare and animal health. i agree that this situation requires our full attention, and i can assure you that the member states are fully aware of this problem. at the end of 2018, 17 member states participated in an eu-coordinated control plan on the online sales of dogs and cats in order to gain insight into practices in this field. it turned out that a high percentage of the animals offered for sale was non-compliant. this confirmed the clear need to strengthen controls. i agree that identification and traceability of cats and dogs are key elements in this respect. the existing eu legislation already requires pet animals which are moved between member states or imported into the eu to be marked. in addition, the new regulation on animal health and official controls offers further tools to fight illegal trade. proper enforcement of the existing rules is of crucial importance. this is primarily the responsibility of the commission and the member states. i should also mention that since the adoption of the new regulation on animal health and official controls, the council working party of chief veterinary officers has intensively discussed how to better fight illegal trade in companion animals. these discussions highlighted the complexity of the problem and the need for continued cooperation between all competent authorities, including among member states. we expect these discussions to continue within the working group on e—commerce that the commission has established, as well as within the voluntary initiative group of the eu platform on animal welfare devoted to the health and welfare of pets in trade. finally, i would like to remind you that the council, in its recent conclusions on animal welfare, has encouraged the commission and the member states to continue their work on the effective enforcement of the existing animal welfare legislation. the council has also invited the commission to assess the need for the impact of the possible new legislation.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an issue that i personally feel strongly about and it’s something that we, like parliament, are committed to controlling and stopping. but in order to guide our discussion correctly, we need to start from the fact that the welfare of companion animals in the eu is mainly regulated at the national level. member states have sole competence for cat and dog welfare, and they also have the sole responsibility for the identification, registration and conditions for keeping and moving these animals within their natural territory. eu rules cover cross-border trade in cats and dogs. clear rules apply to both commercial and non-commercial movements and cover both animals moved within the eu and also those entering from the outside. these rules are mainly designed to protect animal health and prevent the spread of animal diseases, especially rabies. they also ensure any dogs and cats entering the eu or moved between countries are properly identified and vaccinated. where illegal trade in cats and dogs is identified, it is therefore not due to a lack of legislation but because the legislation that is in place is not properly enforced by the member states, and this is where we need to invest a lot more energy. in recent years we have tried to strengthen the legal framework to help member states tackle illegal trade. the new animal health law, which comes into force in april 2021, has made important changes. firstly, it requires compulsory registration of all establishments breeding dogs and cats, and all transporters who take dogs and cats between member states. secondly, it obliges member states to improve all shelters and assembly centres from which dogs and cats are moved to other member states. these new measures will help to control trade of companion animals in a better way, and we consider that they are sufficient for tackling illegal trade. but again, it is crucial that these rules are properly applied and enforced, and for this we have taken several actions in member states. the first of these is the eu coordinated control plan on the online sale of dogs and cats, this in order to give member states insight into fraudulent practices and encourage them to control the online market more effectively. and the second is the voluntary initiative launched in the framework of the eu animal welfare platform: the sub-group on health and welfare of pets, and this involves all relevant stakeholders and provides guidelines to ensure better animal health and welfare for companion animals. thirdly, and finally: training provided for national authorities via the better training for safer food initiative, which encourages best practices to control imports and trade of dogs and cats. one element the new rules do not cover is the development of interconnected databases, and i believe that this is a question of proportionality. we consider that this would be disproportionate to the animal health risk without a clear indication of eu added value. we will, however – and i want to be clear on this – monitor the situation closely, continue working with member states and stakeholders to ensure the illegal trade in cats and dogs in the eu is brought to an end.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, each year a significant number of companion animals is illegally traded across the member states. they are often subjected to long journeys across the eu without food and water. the trafficking in companion animals has negative implications not only on animal welfare, obviously, but also on public health and consumer protection. we need tougher sanctions on the traffickers, better cross-border cooperation on law enforcement, and stricter animal health requirements. we need training for the law enforcement to better react in specific cases related to illegal trade in companion animals. we call on the commission for stricter rules on the identification and registration of cats and dogs, as well as the registration and licensing of all breeders and sellers. the systems for registration shall be interconnected among the member states also to secure online trading, since 80% of the whole illegal trade is online trade. last but not least, more public awareness campaigns should be carried out to inform citizens about the negative effects of the illegal trade in companion animals and the importance of purchasing only companion animals that have been bred, kept and traded in a responsible manner and with due concern for animal welfare. moreover, we call on the member states to carry out more information and awareness-raising campaigns to encourage adopting, rather than buying, companion animals. if more people adopted pets instead of buying, or at least did better research on animal breeders, illegal traders would see their business slowly diminish.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. we conservatives believe that the funding of cohesion policy for the period 2021-2027 should be the same as for the years 2014-2020. co-financing should also be maintained at the current rates of advance payments. the reduction in cohesion funding is unacceptable and will cause turbulence between the two programming periods. and then there is brexit. it gives us the opportunity to eliminate the rebates from 2021. all member states should contribute on the basis of the same principles. the reasons behind the current correction mechanisms are outdated. the structure of expenditure has changed and there are no member states with an excessive burden. currently, countries benefiting from rebates contribute around 0.70% of their gross national income, while other member states, mostly less developed, contribute around 85%. a just transition fund should be established, although its financing should not be at the expense of other policies.
madam president, with less money, we can't do more projects and more joint tasks. we can be more rational, we can save, we can reshape our budget, but we must preserve all that is good, and there are many good projects in the european union. but we also have new projects that we need to do. together we can do more, in climate policy, in security policy, in research, in new technologies, in the fight against cancer and so on. these are projects for people. we also need to think about our shared values, why we're together. net wage earners must not forget solidarity and the benefits they derive from giving money to the less developed. more german cars will be sold, more will be sold in spar stores or dutch tulips. and the net recipients must not forget where the money comes from, because they sometimes behave too self-sufficiently and also do not respect european rules. we must not forget the future, so we must have a good budget.
madam president, what i am about to say has already been said in principle, but i feel that i have an obligation to do so and it is an ethical obligation. the european commission is presenting a very ambitious work plan to respond to the major challenges facing europe and our societies, but it is essential that this response does not involve sacrificing policies that are absolutely structural to our societies. in a false dichotomy between traditional and modern policies, and i am speaking here specifically of the need to maintain or increase budgetary appropriations for such important policies as agricultural policy, fisheries, regional cohesion, because, in fact, if we do not do this, our citizens will not understand in what sense we intend the european project to continue to be a project of solidarity and cohesion. i would like to conclude by saying that i hope that these structural policies will continue to be a major investment in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we are genuine europeans, if we really want and demand a better and stronger europe, if we really want europe to have a future and a perspective and to be able to finance its great visions and ambitions, such as the green policy, the fight against cancer, the european army and the single defence and security, then there is a way; a condition: to increase the budget from 1% of the contribution of the member states to 1.3%. we must have great ambitions, great visions and great words. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i support the position and the view of my dear colleague, manfred weber, that countries which do not apply the rule of law and european and international law cannot receive even one euro from the european union. the first and foremost country to be excluded from these funds is turkey, which does not respect them and does not implement them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
madam president, commissioner, today's debate is obviously about the future of europe and it is certainly regrettable, as has been said here, that the president, the new president of the european council, is absent. he's just gonna have a meeting with that subject. but let's return to the importance of the budget of the new financial framework. the commission president was telling us that we must strike a balance between the old priorities and the new priorities. in my view, the old priorities remain relevant: the common agricultural programme, too, cohesion cannot be missing even if we add priorities such as, of course, the ecological pact. but we cannot ignore those two priorities - the common agricultural policy and cohesion - because, commissioner, we were talking about those who have net contributions. in my country, the top ten capital, investment, in all areas, from banking, energy, commerce, are the ones who are net contributors, so they have a market at their disposal. we must go on to achieve real cohesion because only then will we secure the future of europe through solidarity, through a better life, and on the common agricultural policy i want to say something else, because we could not answer the question: if we do not have the same subsidy for farmers, france with romania with the czech republic with slovakia, we cannot talk about a single market.
madam president, the problem we are facing is that the british have left the european union, but their mindset has remained behind. the fact that the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on budgets, the fact that the commission has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on budgets, the fact that the council has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on budgets, the fact that the commission has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on budgets, the fact that the council has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on budgets, the fact that the commission has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on budgets, and the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget. the continuation of the british method creates problems. it hinders the effective functioning of the european union and prevents the effective implementation of the necessary new policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the european parliament's proposal does not solve all the problems; it does, however, guarantee that they will not get out of hand.
madam president, commissioner hahn, i remember you as commissioner for regional policy, sensitive to the outermost regions, and now as commissioner for budgets. you have heard it in all the languages and corners of the spectrum of this european parliament, including your group - the people's group - and my group - the socialist group. it is unacceptable that, in the face of the greatest ambitions, the european union should propose the most stingy financial framework in its history. so the conclusions are very clear. the first one is, you can't do more with less. secondly, it is unacceptable that the new policies which are necessary should be at the expense of the policies which are the reason for europe's existence: cohesion policy; regional policy, which protects the less favoured and remote regions, such as the outermost regions, and the most disadvantaged sectors, such as farmers and producers. and the third - very clear - is that the european parliament has the last word. let no one forget it, let no one ignore it in this house. we are decisive. without this european parliament and its final approval, there will be no financial framework. it must therefore be changed and upgraded to meet the needs of this european parliament, which has a very large majority. the alternative is not simply to block the current financial framework, but to render the european project impotent, irrelevant and moribund.
madam president, the mff to the european union is like oil to an engine. without oil the engine can’t function; the better the oil, the more efficient the engine. the same applies to the european union. without a budget we can’t function; the bigger the budget, the more efficient we can be. so it is appropriate that the house should call upon the member states, and especially the prime ministers, to show some vision and broad-mindedness to ensure that we have the budget to do the things that we can do best in the interests of their own member states and their own citizens. the evidence is there: the added value, the economies of scale in relation to things like cap, cohesion, climate change, erasmus, research and so on. the return to member states is in the region of three-to-four to one for every euro put in. it’s logical. it’s sensible. it’s in the interest of citizens. all we want is for the prime ministers to show genuine broad-mindedness and i’m pleased to say that our taoiseach, leo varadkar, has indicated that ireland is prepared to increase its contributions. but all 27 member states must do so.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this very fruitful exchange of views. discussions on the next mff, over many months, have underlined how passionate we are about the positive impact of policies on our citizens. we don’t agree on all the details, but we see a lot of consensus on our shared priorities. the budget is the policy cast in numbers and it needs to be big enough to meet our ambitions. yet compromise is needed and, as president ursula von der leyen has made clear, time has run out. next week it is crucial that an agreement is reached. we all want to see an ambitious budget, but we cannot ignore the reality that filling the gap of now being a union of 27 comes with its challenges. this is why i would urge you to aim for a budget that can deliver as of day one. this is why it is important to continue working on the sectoral proposals. moreover, we should also work together towards a better outcome for a budget that is able to deliver on our common strategic agenda for europe by focusing on, first, equipping ourselves with the means to deliver the green deal for climate neutrality, and, second, ensuring new own resources are created, for example plastics and ets to help finance european public goods. we also look forward to a constructive and productive discussion at the european council on 20 february and an outcome that’s good for europe. the union cannot deliver on its ambitions when cuts are in areas where european citizens expect us to do more. many of you have mentioned examples – climate, borders, digital, erasmus, defence, you name it – and therefore the finnish negobox is not yet the finish. why the urgency? we are already very late, as several speakers have said, even later than 2013, where that delay led to a lost year for many programmes. i am talking about 2014. our focus must be on making sure that all the new programmes are up and running by 1 january 2021. let’s avoid delays, let’s be positive and let’s stay united. we owe this to ourselves and to our institutions, but, most importantly, to our citizens, who expect results. the commission remains committed to a continuous dialogue and to engage fully to support the forthcoming negotiations. by the way, regarding the negotiations, i have been asked in the past couple of days and even today by many people if i believe that it is possible or likely to strike a deal next week, meaning that, according to tradition, it is unlikely that only one meeting will be sufficient to get the deal. but i think it’s time to break with this tradition and to work for a deal struck in one meeting. i have been travelling to many member states, participating in many meetings and conferences during the past couple of weeks, and i believe there can be a consensus amongst member states, even already next week, provided there is some goodwill and energy and – may i say and this is very important – that, in particular, bigger, leading member states become more active and work for a deal. in that respect, i urge all of you to use your contacts and your networks to put some pressure on the european leaders, your party leaders and your party friends in order to work for a deal which, finally, is in the interest of all of us and enables us to enter into negotiations with the european parliament. the commission, and i myself, we will do everything to support all these negotiations.
thank you commissioner hahn, and i hope the goodwill continues.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank you for a very useful debate. i have taken good note of your expectations and concerns and i will convey them to president michel. it is important that europe continues developing and its socio-economical gaps are being reduced, meaning that our treaty-based policies are effective and need to be continued, while also taking into account new challenges outlined in the eu’s strategic agenda. furthermore, one of the biggest eu member states and budget contributors has left, so we need to find a compromise that will address the budgetary gap while at the same time ensuring sufficient resources to achieve objectives, priorities and challenges arising from the ambitious strategic agenda. we are therefore committed to a balanced, efficient and effective budget in line both with our strategic agenda as well as the citizens’ expectations. i am confident that, in cooperation with you, it will be possible to ensure a smooth transition to the next long-term financial cycle. as soon as our leaders reach agreement in the european council, the croatian presidency will be ready to step up our work with you in order to deliver for our citizens and for the future for our union.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. regrettably, the budgetary negotiations have once again focused on the size of the budget. four member states (currently three) are rigidly holding back a maximum of 1.0% of gni, and the european parliament is demanding a maximum of 1.3% of gdp. instead of focusing on large national envelopes, negotiators should focus on pan-european projects, i.e. projects where there is added value in working together (infrastructure projects, the construction of supercomputers and quantum computers, artificial intelligence, etc.). i think it's very important that we move quickly on the budget talks, and i voted yes.
in writing. the negotiations on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework are causing increasing friction between member states. the union budget, weakened by the uk's withdrawal, requires a more united approach from the member states. the traditional distinction between beneficiaries and net contributors will not help us to finance current and new programmes. until we understand that we all benefit from the single market, it will be difficult to convince all countries to pay more than 1% of gdp. in one of the recent debates, my colleagues from the net contributor countries were not afraid to point out how much the economies of their countries benefit from being in the common market. the final balance is not just the payments and receipts to the eu budget, but also the income of small and medium-sized enterprises and the economic giants who benefit from the benefits of the common market. politicians have a hard time talking about raises, but citizens should know that programs like the new green deal have no limits, that without agreements on their funding, we all lose. polish and european science, students, investors and start-ups are losing out. another way to compensate for the budget gap should be to reform the eu's own resources, but we still do not see sufficient progress since the creation of the own resources group in 2014.
in writing. the governing council is about to meet, and the issue of the multiannual financial perspective will be the main topic. we are very hopeful that progress will be made in the negotiations and that the council will be able to reach agreement on a negotiating mandate. our priorities for the next multiannual financial perspective are clear: to ensure adequate funding for the construction of a social europe. the negotiating position presented by the finnish presidency is not satisfactory to us and does not correspond at all to the priorities we have agreed. we must remember that funding is also needed for programmes that have not yet been launched, such as the european child guarantee, which will only be introduced next year, but funding must be agreed now for the programme to function properly and for the support to reach children in need. we will not accept a reduction in funding for the social sector, because our citizens expect a lot from europe, and the multiannual financial perspective must meet the expectations of our citizens, especially the most vulnerable.
in writing. – in the light of the budgetary negotiations of the european council, i stress the importance of establishing a budget proportional with our objectives. the von der leyen commission has an ambitious programme ahead, which requires an ambitious budget. as chair of the committee for industry, research and energy of the european parliament, i am particularly concerned about an eventual cut in the horizon europe budget. this instrument is a key factor for the success of the green deal and eu’s assumed mission to fight cancer. proper investment in digital research and innovation will be critical for increasing the global competitiveness of europe’s industries while helping them to achieve carbon emissions reductions in line with our climate—neutral objectives. europe needs to support uptake of innovative technologies in relation to the development of co2 absorption capacities, develop innovative negative emissions technologies, and enable digital technologies such as artificial intelligence, 5g and supercomputing in order to better design climate and environment policies. these actions cannot be performed without an adequate budget and their financing should not come at the cost of eu cohesion policy, which is crucial for a uniform transition process.
in writing. when negotiating the next multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027, the leaders of the member states meeting in the european council should bear in mind that the eu budget is intended to provide an adequate level of funding for the ambitious and pro-development eu policies and programmes that have been put forward by the new european commission and approved by parliament. social programmes such as helping children at risk of poverty, tackling youth unemployment, research and innovation, digital transformation and environmental and climate change investments (european green deal) are particularly relevant in this regard. the appropriate funding should also be maintained in the area of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. the reform of the eu's own resources system, which provides for the establishment of additional sources of revenue for the union, is also a key element in the ongoing negotiations on the 2021-2027 mff. the lion's share of the union budget (around 70%) is currently paid by the member states, and the final amount is therefore always the subject of difficult intergovernmental negotiations. the rest is direct revenue to the eu budget from customs duties, agricultural levies, sugar compensatory levies and vat-based contributions. the deepening of the process of european integration requires an increase in the union's budgetary independence. i therefore share the parliament's view that additional sources of own resources should include the revenue from the abolition of rebates and adjustments and the taxation of multinational companies operating in the single market and established in tax havens or digital giants outside the union.
madam president! that's very good news. this vote is very good news for many countries, because gas is a very necessary and extremely sustainable energy source for many countries, including post-communist countries. and there's the gas investment that's helping these countries, these post-communist countries, to get out of the very difficult issues of the old energy system. with this vote, the european parliament has shown that it is possible to reach a common understanding of the starting points of the different european countries and energy responsibility. thanks to this vote, gas connections between poland and the czech republic, poland and slovakia, poland and ukraine, poland and norway, baltic pipe will continue to be financed, and gas systems related to liquefied gas will be built and will represent poland's energy independence.
madam president, i think we all agree in the ep on the need to combat this inhuman, inhuman practice. i would just like to remind you that it was our group of european conservatives and our mp assita kanko of the n-va who nominated a group of kenyan activists known as the restorers for the sakharov prize last year, who are actively fighting against this inhuman practice both in africa and elsewhere in the world. we'll continue, of course, we have some plans. i would like to invite you, madam vice-president, to take part in this activity and i hope that you will receive a proposal from us on this matter shortly and that you will support it. of course i supported this resolution.
madam president! i voted in favour of the resolution on ensuring consumer protection and the free movement of goods and services in the field of automated decision-making, because i believe that artificial intelligence has the potential to make people's lives easier. ai systems are being used in various industries because of their ability to improve productivity. they are innovative and simplify complex processes, but it is important that they are safe for consumers and function as intended. it is equally important that the legal regulations are not overly burdensome and do not discourage european companies from implementing and adapting these solutions. this resolution is a step towards finding that balance.
madam president, the general definition of automated decision making is the process of making a decision by automated means without any human involvement. this decision can be based on factual data as well as on digitally created profiles or inferred data. let’s give examples here: an online decision to award a loan or an ability test in recruitment using pre—programmed algorithms and criteria. there are a number of benefits to such decision making – a quicker and more consistent decision among them – but what about risks, the risk of profiling, misuse of data, limiting consumers’ choices. we must be aware of these risks. that is why i voted for the resolution, which calls on the commission to closely monitor developments in this area.
madam president! we are dealing with an unprecedented situation. the eu is an important body after brexit, but it is weaker, and we have to call things by their right names. however, today is also the day and we are starting to discuss the uk's deal with the european union. i wish commissioner barnier the best of luck with this deal, but above all i wish the people of the united kingdom and the european union a good relationship with each other. it's very important that we put out this fire and that we look to the future together. the uk is a permanent fixture - always, in every situation - when it comes to security. i believe that the security of the people of the united kingdom, the european union and the world should be the first thing that we discuss, because we all need a safe europe and a safe world.
madam president, i voted for the agreement because it adequately protects our interests. but given what it is and given the british government’s red lines – no customs union, no jurisdiction of the european court of justice and no freedom of movement – i think this will lead to a barebones agreement on goods. the pyramid of lies peddled by europhobes in britain is beginning to crash. the british government is beginning to acknowledge that there will be customs and other checks on the border between us from january next year. therefore, in the name of freer trade, britain will be erecting barriers with her biggest trading partner. what a disaster.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we hear all the time that at the heart of the digital economy must be a human being. how do we reconcile these ambitious challenges of new digital technologies with the feeling that this is the best solution and that change is good for the worker? we know that robotics and artificial intelligence are opportunities for new jobs, but we also need to recognize the risks. we also want them to be high-quality jobs, offering new forms of employment and attractive employment. we need to make sure that this is an opportunity for all the countries of the european union and that the digital exclusion does not affect central and eastern europe, the countries that are developing. the european union must do more to support poorer regions. but there's no going back from these changes. in the digital economy, it is not just regulations and directives that will be decisive, but a new reality of work that will guarantee social protection, good working conditions and social inclusion.
in writing. i am pleased that the president of the european commission, in presenting the work plan for the current year, has stressed that the digital transformation, in order to be effective and serve europe's economic growth and development, must take into account the interests of all groups of citizens, be fair and beneficial for all. our society is ageing and it is in everyone's interest that older people can remain independent, active professionally and socially for as long as possible. it is worth emphasising that older people have a huge potential to offer, both in terms of knowledge, professional and life experience, and civic engagement. they are also a very important consumer group. the commission will also be supporting the development of a european network of social partners, including the european social fund, to support the social partners in their efforts to develop and implement the social dialogue. services, including banking, need to be more consumer-friendly and not restricted to those who are proficient in mobile applications. new technologies and artificial intelligence can and should serve to level the playing field and compensate for the deficits associated with age or disability. i also believe that the new skills agenda should include a roadmap for digital skills tailored to the needs of disadvantaged groups such as the elderly, the long-term unemployed, the disabled and early school leavers.
thank you, madam ambassador! i remind you to observe the time of your speeches. i would like to ask mrs christina anderson to speak, and at the same time i would like to remind my colleagues that according to our rules of procedure, flags and symbols cannot be displayed in the chamber. i would like to address the honourable member who will be speaking shortly. i would therefore ask the members to remove the banners and the staff to remind their colleagues of this in person. please, madam ambassador, please!
thank you very much, madam ambassador. thank you for removing the flag, too. it's not a matter of concern, but of the rules, which apply to all of us.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it's very good that we're working on a strategy for gender equality. it's a challenge we have to face. we're talking about the fourth industrial revolution, we're talking about technological progress, we're talking about the digital revolution, and we still haven't achieved equality in something as important as gender equality. we have hard data. if all countries in the world eliminated gender discrimination and guaranteed equal rights for all citizens in this one area, by 2030, global gdp would increase by $6 trillion. after all, neither the world nor europe can afford to give up on women's involvement. you can't afford it economically or socially. and it's not just the pay gap that we're talking about today, it's not just that women are at risk of poverty (because the pay gap is 16 percent and the retirement gap is over 35 percent), that they're underrepresented in parliaments and governments, that they still face a glass ceiling in the business world, that we need to address. europe's poverty cannot be represented by a woman.
thank you, madam deputy, but please read the rules and not use posters in future speeches. as you know, the rules apply to all of us.
madam president, gender equality is a matter of justice to women. even in the most conservative societies, we see brave women putting the issue of their rights on the public agenda, but their demands are not always turned into policies; change does not always happen. politicians often pay lip service to gender equality, but fail to recognise the genuine role of women in society, the economy, business and politics. if europe wants to achieve its strategic goals, we cannot miss out on the issue of the participation of half of the population. if we want to make the planned conference on the future of europe a game changer, based on an authentic dialogue with citizens, we have to listen to the perspective of women as citizens. we have to go beyond the european union and offer our solidarity to women who are out there fighting for equality in their own cultural and national context. the new strategy presented by the commission is a good blueprint for action, but it is also a signal that europe will never give up on human rights and justice. i strongly believe, as a woman and as a member of this house, that the eu can be the beacon of courage and hope for women.
madam president! i had a different perspective to speak from, but i'm taking part in a debate on gender equality that is mainly about women. and it occurs to me that every time we talk in this room about big money, about bombs, about missiles, about power, the debate room is dominated by men. and when we talk about equality, it's mostly women who talk. if the discrimination, the violence, the isolation, the inequality were for men, i am convinced that this strategy would have been adopted by the european union long ago. and we're talking about the majority, the majority of our society. we're talking about our daughters who are victims of violence, we're talking about our mothers who earn less, we're talking about our grandmothers who will have a smaller pension precisely because they've earned less than men their entire lives. and that's why i'm calling on my colleagues in this room and in politics in general to stand with women who are fighting for their rights, because it's going to affect our daughters, our mothers, our grandmothers, our friends and colleagues. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8)).)
blue-card answer. – yes, since we are men and for hundreds of years we have been promoted, we should always look behind us. so many women every day are left behind, and we as politicians have a responsibility for that. so we as politicians, male politicians, have extra power which we can use to liberate women, to help them become equal – nothing more, nothing less – just equal. this is our obligation. (applause)
i should like to say, madam president, that in previous speeches i wished that we would not have to discuss gender equality again, because the european union could rise to the occasion and have implemented it to date. i find it insulting that in 2020, in the european union - of which we are proud; of its culture, human rights, principles and values - we continue to fight for something that should have been taken for granted: gender equality. we are talking about it as a goal to be achieved, which has not been achieved for so many years. i therefore believe - and i really commend commissioner dalli for her initiatives - that the european union must take the lead and take concrete measures to ensure that this equality is enforced by sanctions against countries which do not apply it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. so it is our first and only objective to fight together for this cause.
madam president, i come from poland, a country in which women are still not properly protected from violence; a country in which women who are living in villages still do not have proper access to health care, in which the burden of childcare is put on women, and only one per cent of men take paternity leave. i come from poland, a country in which women do not have the right to safe and legal abortion. the list of issues is long and the situation affects even more women with disabilities, the elderly, lgtbi, roma women and muslim women, and it is disgraceful that in the 21st century in the centre of europe there are women who cannot enjoy their fundamental human rights. the ambition of the european union should be to ensure unified standards and the highest level of protection of women’s human rights in all member states. it should be the goal of gender equality strategy.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the council by evelyn regner, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the eu priorities for the 64th session of the un commission on the status of women (o-000006/2020 - b9-0005/2020).
although 25 years have passed since the world conference on women in beijing, this debate reminds us that there is still much to be done to protect and empower women in all spheres. we need to ask ourselves what has been done and what steps need to be taken to stop women around the world from facing problems like violence, economic inequality in a broad sense, or even discrimination against women as mothers in the workplace. perhaps the european parliament should take a cue from poland, where the gender pay gap is one of the lowest in europe and the low rate of violence against women places poland at the top of the safest countries in the old continent. at the same time, we say 'no' to the demands of some groups that abortion be one of the methods of family planning and that the european union should finance organisations involved in promoting it. the question is what the european parliament really intends to do about the full respect for women's rights and gender equality. specifics, timetable, what are the plans for the future?
mr. chairman, please! in her question, ms regner stated that 25 years after the adoption of the beijing declaration, women's rights are still not fully respected. i totally agree with that, because there are women who have no voice and cannot decide their own future. there are women whose survival depends on the decisions of their mothers, considering only their own socioeconomic situation. finally, there are women who are first physically or chemically mutilated and then killed without any consequences for the perpetrators. if you are horrified and outraged by this, you are right, because in fact millions of unborn girls are shamefully excluded from the fight for women's rights as a result of abortion. but they have the right to live, to own their own bodies, and to choose their own future. that's a right no man should take away from them, not even a mother. the women's rights movement, which does not defend the rights of all women and supports abortion, is pure hypocrisy. enough killing unborn children. it's just barbaric, you know?
mr. chairman, madam rapporteur, i'd like to thank you for a great job. in 2015, i was on the border of greece and north macedonia. i saw 55 different types of syrian passports, but none of them were real. and it's important to emphasize that a lot of people came here on various fake passports that were produced all over europe. that is why this database is important, even though it seems to be a technical norm, it is very important to protect eu citizens from people coming here on false documents, and there is also a need to further cooperate in detecting, for example, false documents that are on cars and other technical equipment. we need to continue to work with this database and all member states really need to make good use of this tool and strive to make europe as secure as possible in the future.
mr. chairman, please! the forgery of documents is often the first step in the creation of organised crime in the european union: money laundering, terrorist activities and other modern forms of criminal activity, including mafia. so it's a very good move, a move in the right direction to create a coherent system, to unify our knowledge and experience to fight these kinds of practices. the fado programme should therefore be viewed favourably. at the same time, i am pleased that this tool will be available to frontex, which has a very positive and good track record in terms of security for the whole of the european union. if the european union is to be strong and compete effectively in the world, it must deal with these new threats, including the threats of terrorism and organised crime. finally, we should really thank the rapporteur, mrs metsoli, for her hard work on this document.
mr. chairman, please! i'm very supportive of the project that was presented. thank you, madam rapporteur, for your great work. i believe that security is the first common interest of all europe. it is also important that by supporting fado we are strengthening frontex, a very important agency that is supposed to work ever better for the security of europe as a whole. we have a very, very bad record of neglecting safety issues. in this case, i can say that following poland's lead the european union is building its security. poland is a safe country, europe must be a safe place to live, and this project reinforces that well and perfectly.
in writing. fado is a very important tool in supporting the fight against illegal migration and the use of false documents. it is an eu online image archiving system designed to facilitate the rapid sharing of authentic, fake and forged images between eu member states. the criminal world is using increasingly sophisticated methods of document forgery, and combating this practice is a major challenge for a number of agencies responsible for our common security. fado therefore contributes to maintaining a high level of security in the union by assisting the police, border guards, customs and other law enforcement authorities in the member states in combating document integrity offences. the fado system is therefore an important tool for the application of the schengen acquis. we therefore call on the commission to finalise the work on this system as soon as possible, as it is an important tool in the fight against crimes against the credibility of documents, in particular at the eu's external borders, which is an important element in strengthening border controls and combating illegal migration.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not when i look at the public debate after the luanda leaks, i get a really bad feeling. it seems to me that we are getting used to such tax scandals. the excitement is waning, and it seems to the public that politics is powerless against an increasingly big business tax-avoidance industry for a few rich and powerful. but politics must never stop fighting injustice and wrong for the sake of our democracy, no matter how powerful the opponents. it is no coincidence that we are dealing with our own member state, portugal, again in the case of luanda leaks. portugal was already at the centre of a corruption scandal at the football leaks a year ago and what has been the result? the whistleblower, rui pinto, is in prison, but the real criminals have not been prosecuted. similarly, portugal has sold thousands of golden visas on a large scale and has established a tax haven in madeira. this is a way of trampling on people's sense of justice, and we cannot allow this as a european community of law. the eu commission must enforce european law in all member states and cannot wait with infringement proceedings. unfortunately, it has also been watching this activity in portugal for far too long, while at the same time there were major scandals going on - money was not collected, perpetrators were not convicted. we therefore have a rule of law problem in portugal and the european commission must address this problem as quickly as possible through targeted infringement procedures. we need the forthcoming revision of the auditors directive to ensure that auditors in particular can no longer do business with dirty money in the future, as was unfortunately revealed again in the luanda leaks. this problem is far from solved, we must stay on it.
on behalf of the ecr group mr president! only a hard law, with the threat of an inevitable punishment, can stop international criminal groups. let me use the polish example to introduce such rules. in recent years, under the leadership of prosecutor general zbigniew ziobry, poland has taken a hard line against money laundering. thanks to the extended seizure and sealing of the system, about pln 4 billion, or about eur 1 billion, was seized and secured in a short time. poland's success is due to the ruthlessness, courage, tenacity of the prosecution and the ministry of justice and the introduction of new measures to combat money laundering. expanded confiscation, enhanced cooperation between international entities and banks, restrictions on tax havens and so-called non-cooperative entities, and fast and ruthless services are the key elements of the new architecture for the fight against organised crime and money laundering. the fifth directive on combating money laundering is now being introduced. this is another important improvement in the system and strengthening cooperation in the fight against the most serious crime.
mr president, tax scandals like lux leaks and others have revealed to the world a system which promotes opacity and anonymity and which allows money laundering. in its reaction to these scandals, the european union has shown that it remains strongly influenced by the interests of multinationals and others. the measures taken by the elementary authorities to combat money laundering have been halted and, if anything has changed, it is to keep everything the same. as regards recent allegations that have come to light, it is up to the authorities of the countries concerned to ascertain whether there are any illegalities or irregularities and to act accordingly. what these events cannot justify in any case are the hypocritical and meddlesome attitudes of those who see here an opportunity to give force to their ambitions for neocolonial domination. the fight against money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance is still limited by a knot which the european union is not interested in untying: the tax havens with which the european union coexists and is in agreement. it is still necessary to untie this knot.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we have introduced at european union level the strict rules laid down in the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing directives, which had to be transposed by the member states by 10 january this year. but lundalix clearly shows that not all countries and banks in the european union have yet to implement these rules. what's troubling is that we have a highly regulated industry. we have the tools to detect any potentially risky money laundering activity, and yet nothing has happened. we see that in recent years, the threats are not only coming from outside, but there are also some very alarming cases of money laundering inside the european union. the entire financial market of the european union is thus exposed to the threat posed by criminals and terrorists. luandalix is another example of the non-application of european legislation and in particular the mechanisms for identifying customers, reporting suspicious transactions related to certain accounts, etc. in this context, the european commission must ensure that the existing legal framework is properly implemented and applied and, if necessary, initiate infringement procedures against member states. thank you!
money laundering remains a difficult crime to detect and even more difficult to bring to justice. secret jurisdictions go to great lengths to facilitate criminal activity. information crucial to prosecutions is being withheld from investigators and this is leading to impunity for criminals. of course european journalist daphne caruana galizia was killed to stop her from exposing corruption and money laundering; the same corruption and money laundering committed by a company registered in dubai. despite all this, the uae continues to insist on withholding important information, which means that justice cannot be served. we need to have a framework in place so that this type of information can be properly exchanged, also between fiaus in europe. we must be strong in ensuring that third countries cooperate with european money laundering investigations. finally, there must be consequences for non-cooperating jurisdictions. we cannot have this situation and let it go on as it is.
mr president, she took eur 2 billion from the angolan people, bought companies at a great discount, and got loans she never repaid. how did isabel dos santos become africa’s richest woman? many say it’s corruption, but we only seek money that we can spend, and she did her spending here. her eur 50 million superyacht was dutch; her gbp 30 million mansion is in london. the real enablers of her crimes are those who cleaned her money: bankers from liechtenstein, tax advisers from luxembourg, and trust firms in amsterdam, my hometown. these enablers roam free, while rui pinto, the source behind the luanda leaks and the football leaks, has already been in prison for one whole year. is he not a whistle—blower? doesn’t he deserve protection? these are my specific questions to the european commission. we need to acknowledge the problem. we need to acknowledge that the problem is also ours, and to protect those that expose these crimes. so let’s fight money laundering. let’s gather our resources, european and national. let’s fight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. two trillion euros are laundered around the world every year. but we don 't just have to look at other people . the problem does not start outside the european union. 110 billion euros are laundered within the european union that's very close to the annual eu budget. it is therefore a question of the credibility of the rule of law, it is a question of the credibility of european parliamentary democracy. it is alarming that there is still a contradiction between the commitments made and their implementation by the member states; that there is still a situation where the fourth money laundering directive has not been implemented, whereas the fifth should have been implemented as of january; and that there is still a seamless carpet and we still need a common money laundering oversight that goes beyond the financial sector, a european financial police and a european whistleblower. let's finally do what we've been promising for years.
mr president, after discussions connected to the panama papers, paradise papers, luxleaks and you name it, here we are again with luanda leaks. getting into detailed discussions about ms dos santos’ potential wrongdoings makes little sense now. what we need to look at is own european plate. firstly, if dubai is so often mentioned in the luanda leaks as a destination country for illicit wealth, why are the united arab emirates not on our european blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions? i call on the commission to look into this issue whilst reviewing the lists. secondly, if a portuguese bank and maltese financial service providers have helped ms dos santos is in her actions, where are the loopholes in our fight against tax fraud and against money laundering? this year’s anti-money laundering action plan and legislative files on taxation have to address these points. while rightly criticising the wrongdoings of africa’s richest woman, we need to also ask ourselves why in the eu we facilitate such actions.
mr. chairman, please! a lot has been said here. once again we are debating the affairs, once again we are wondering whether the practice of money laundering is the domain of the so-called third world only, or whether it is only africa, a cheap tax haven. but the strange thing is that the beneficiaries of this money are usually either investing it or spending it here in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is therefore important to make it clear that criminals are always one step ahead of democratic states and the services that fight crime. no single country will be able to cope unless there is full coordination. last autumn, six countries demanded that an office be set up here in brussels to combat this practice. i can also say from my own experience as a former minister of the interior and administration in the government of the republic of poland that the successes of the services i supervised were largely the successes of cooperation with other services, with europol, with interpol. it's the only way we're gonna stay one step ahead of the bad guys.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. addressing the root causes of migration is one of the key elements of effective and crisis-resilient migration management. what are the root causes? obviously destabilization and war in the neighboring countries, but also we have to say it honestly here extremely irresponsible, naive, often based on a kind of terrorism political correctness naivety and this is the famous herzlich willkommen in 2015. dear refugees, please come! we're waiting for you here! the result is that a very large number of people - genuine refugees - have not found the help they need, because they have been pushed out by economic and business migrants. the union's impact on processes in our immediate neighbourhood has so far proved insufficient and the real risks have not been effectively minimised. these unresolved problems beyond the union's external borders could lead to another migration crisis that we may have to deal with. here it must be very clear: the action taken by the eu institutions must be coherent, targeted, properly coordinated and the involvement of the member states in these areas should be an expression of goodwill.
madam president! if you follow the liberal media in europe, it seems that the migration crisis ended in 2016. in fact, it is still ongoing, and it has two aspects: humanitarian, at the external borders, and migration within the union. official statistics show that the situation is still serious. this is the result of the european union's 2015 policy of opening its borders to all newcomers, mistakenly or knowingly classifying them as refugees, even though most of them were economic migrants. so, perhaps we are dealing with deliberate social engineering, the idea of which was to bring millions of migrants to europe in order to hasten the end of the nation states and create a new man without ideas, without national identity and without the christian faith. instead of changing immigration policy, the problem is being ignored. the union has the resources, it only needs a political vision other than the neo-marxist ideology that is killing europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. more than 90% of european teenagers have access to the internet at home and they are the first generation that does not remember the analogue times. the internet is part of the modern world of the child, whether we adults like it or not. children and youths are increasingly deprived of entertainment and knowledge from books, television, and radio. everything they need is on their phone and tablet. yes, it provides tremendous opportunities for their creative development and for their acquiring valuable abilities and skills. the internet can be a tool for equalizing opportunities for children at risk of exclusion or for children with disabilities. but the rise of the internet and social media brings with it dangers that our children and we as parents are often not prepared for. because i'm afraid that parents and children are often left to deal with issues like hate speech and social media harassment. this applies both to the children who are victims of such behavior and to those who engage in it. so is the growing addiction of young people to the internet and computer games. as the european parliament's coordinator for children's rights, i expect the commission to take into account not only the views of the internet industry and parents, but also the needs and concerns of both children and young people in its planned strategies and changes to existing rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: given the growing urgency and need for a comprehensive strategy to respond to the possible increase in cases in europe, i have a few questions to ask the commission. can the commission make any comments on the emergency meeting of the european union health ministers tomorrow? can the commission explain how the ecdc, dg santo and the chinese centre for disease control and prevention are coordinating their responses to the novel coronavirus? and can the commission give a date for the release of the fifth risk assessment of the european centre for disease prevention and control? furthermore, can the commission explain how the european union coordinates its actions with other third countries? in particular, is it considering contingency measures in the event of a virus outbreak in africa that could place additional burdens on the health systems of countries in the region? the director-general of the world health organization has stated that a vaccine may not be available for more than 18 months. is such a timetable in line with the commission's current assessment?
madam president! more than a million children in madagascar are forced to work, thousands of them in dangerous conditions in mines. the malagasy authorities have already made some progress and are showing a willingness to address the problem. but more decisive action is needed. we therefore call on the malagasy authorities to closely monitor the situation, investigate abuses and revoke permits for mines that use child labour. the problem of forced labour is inextricably linked to poverty. according to a unicef report, as much as 27% of the population of madagascar lives in extreme poverty, and as many as 47% of children suffer from chronic malnutrition. you can't eliminate child labor without eliminating poverty. the european union should continue to provide development assistance to madagascar. access to education must be one of the priorities of this aid. this is important not only for the development of each child, but also for the development of the country as a whole.
madam president, work in adulthood is called, well, work, but work during childhood should be called what it should be: play, education and development. therefore, the phrase ‘child labour’ is an oxymoron in itself. unfortunately, children as young as five make up more than half the number of miners in madagascar. this means that at least 11 000 children are extracting mica, a mineral which is used for everything from make up to car paint. do you know what this means? those children are working for us – europeans – as well. in madagascar people strongly depend on mining and the income it provides, but the exploitation of children must stop, and we must start to stop it here, and stop our own hypocrisy, adopting legislation which will ban child exploitation worldwide.
madam president! there can be no justification for exploitation, which is to be considered child labour often very hard and dangerous work. according to the international child labor organization, more than 351 million children are employed in the world, including 170 million who are engaged in hazardous work. that tells us the scale of the problem. this is the dramatic situation in madagascar, where the poverty rate is very high, 74%. and it is poverty that is recognized as the most important cause of child labor. because of extreme poverty, even one in three children in madagascar is malnourished, and mothers die at birth 100 times more often than in poland the country i come from. malnutrition is common in children under five. children work hard, in dangerous conditions, mostly in mica mines. our calls to the government of madagascar to protect children's rights and eliminate child labour must become more effective.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the news that frontex will have another anti-fraud instrument. document fraud is one of the most lucrative activities for criminals. i would like to point out that poor people don't take advantage of these kinds of opportunities. it's done by people who make money, who just make money by cheating. this is very dangerous for the whole of the european union, for the whole of the world, and criminals who bring about situations where they enable the use of false documents by criminals or by people who simply have something to hide, who operate illegally, are violating european, global and local public order. it's a very good resolution, a very good instrument. and i am glad that frontex will be able to analyse all criminal situations in the european union more closely.
mr. chairman, please! of course, i voted for solutions that would help us fight criminals, to fight crimes related to illegal documents. today, coastguards, national services, in order to effectively combat this kind of crime, they have to work together. it should be made very clear here that both frontex and the national authorities responsible for the security of documents online must be one step ahead of the criminals. the commission should therefore be asked to implement this regulation as soon as possible, so as to give the instruments to the countries concerned and the services concerned.
madam president! this is a very important debate. and the european union, in fact, many people think has a lot to do here. road safety, fatalities, long-term consequences of road accidents, compensation, pensions, medical costs are simply a very shameful aspect of the functioning of the european union. although there is progress, there is still a lot to be done. i would expect, commissioner, a reliable report that would allow us to compare the situation in different countries. it's no secret that the highest number of accidents occur in post-communist countries, where the road infrastructure is the worst. i therefore ask the commissioner to ensure that there is no saving, that the member states have the means to build ring roads, highways, the via carpathia, which runs through romania. and we also need to provide resources to local governments, which are very good at using money for those roads where there are the most accidents. i wish you the best of luck on this difficult mission!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. on 2 march this year, the european union fully activated the eu's integrated political response arrangement, which led to the decision to convene, inter alia, the next extraordinary council meeting on 6 march this year, during which the ministers for health had the opportunity to review the current situation. in order to fully protect our citizens, we need to find the best approach for a coordinated response to the current spread of covid-19 in the european union. how does the european commission assess the mechanisms in place at member state level in the context of the challenges posed by the spread of covid-19 in europe? what additional actions can the commission propose that would help to further improve communication and exchange of information? and the data available from around the world also shows interesting trends. on the one hand, we have a significant decline in cases in china. does this mean that the drastic measures taken by the chinese authorities have had an effect? there was also information that showed a significant difference in mortality between countries, ranging from less than one percent of confirmed infections in south korea to almost five percent in one country in the european union. is that really true? are there such differences, and if so, how do you assess them? what additional protection measures does the european commission intend to take in case the covid-19 virus continues to spread despite the measures in place? could the commission propose additional actions that could be useful in helping member states in such a situation, including additional funds and support from the european investment bank, and will it consider financing the fight against coronavirus from the eu solidarity fund? i also want to thank all the doctors, nurses, paramedics, all the services involved in the fight against the coronavirus.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i think today we are not only with the patients and their families, but also with the doctors and nurses, because they need the most support, including the financial support needed for equipment and medicine. and this is the first financial commitment of the european commission, as it should be. the second is information and communication. unfortunately, we have not heard anything concrete from the european commission. we don't know any procedures and we don't know what the reality of the epidemic in the european union is every day. it's good that individual health ministers, individual heads of state are communicating with each other. but i'm saying we should also pay attention to ourselves. we have a sick man in the room today. he's an official. i can see him. i'm not gonna stigmatize you at the same time. there is no hot water in any tap in the european parliament. there is no procedure for mps and civil servants. nor are there common procedures for all the european institutions.
madam president! let's think about what we're dealing with: is the coronavirus a real threat, adequate for a media panic? of course, it is not to be taken lightly, but it is important to realize that the potential danger is not as great as that of other killer diseases. every year, at least half a million people die from influenza alone. today, it seems that the virus poses a greater threat to the global economy than it does to human health. we're seeing a decline in the stock market, a loss in tourism, airlines, event planners. meanwhile, in recent days, hysteria has spread from the media to our institution, with a significant number of events and visits cancelled, apart from the visit of greta thunberg, the plenary session suspended, and calls for the closure of parliament. the chaos in the bureau's handling of this matter may be due to the fear that the closure of the chamber will cause public discontent. but i think that if it did, it would be unlikely that anyone outside parliament would even notice. let's hope that the european union's biggest killer is not brexit, not anti-eu sentiment, but the coronavirus. let's keep the... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, first of all, i would say that we should be careful, but not panic. this virus shows that threats can strike humanity with quite unexpectedly profound effects on health care, on the economy, on travel. we have repeatedly discussed this situation in the envi committee, including with our european agency ecdc, based in stockholm. and it turns out that we're really not well prepared. we see some pretty significant implications here. we need strong european action. we really need more europe. the epidemic knows no borders, and we are a continent now united. what is necessary? of course, the hygiene and health coordinated measures and also the safety measures. we need to update and mobilize manufacturing capacity in terms of personal protective equipment. and, of course, the medication. we found ourselves very vulnerable again, because there's not enough manufacturing capacity in europe. i am not in favour of closing the borders, but it is important that the european union should implement concrete economic stimulus measures alongside these specific health measures. and it is important to adopt a multiannual financial framework. that's a really urgent incentive. i would like to close my speech by thanking the medical and security forces for their service.
first of all, mr president, i would like to express my sympathy to the families affected, and especially to the italians, and also to express my appreciation for those who provide good care every day - doctors and nurses - in difficult circumstances. europe has only a supporting and coordinating role, but frankly, if you look at the scale of the crisis, european citizens rightly say: europe, do some more. this virus knows no borders, and that is why, commissioner, i thank you for the initiatives that have already been taken. but i would like to call for a greater acceleration, more coordination, more support in the area of health care. strengthen the centers for disease control and prevention, give it more resources to research that much-needed vaccine. let us all buy more together so that our health workers can at least provide care in good conditions for those who are sick or think they are sick. and finally, the economic consequences: europe must follow suit. union is strength, unity is strength!
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we have a very special time in europe today. namely, for the first time, we have to focus very, very, very hard on security. not in the way we're used to, for ideology, but for security. so it's very important that we redefine our needs, including financial needs, and start to give more money to medicine in times of such great danger. we need urgent coordination on the medication. ladies and gentlemen! and then there are tests that could work, that help with prevention. in addition, support is needed for the regions most affected by the coronavirus problems, for businesses that will have huge problems: tourism, gastronomy, events. in addition, the european institutions should set an example. this is very important for everyone. in addition, the european institutions should mediate contacts and dialogue with banks, which should help to manage this crisis, also as i mentioned for the catering sector. and it's very important to make sure that there are no companies that want to take advantage of this crisis and raise prices on medicines that are vital for europeans.
madam president! there are reasons to speak responsibly, but we shouldn't panic, we should just act. i think that all the economic losses that are the result of this drama will be counted, but the most important thing today is the health and safety of people, so business and shareholders of the medical industry must behave responsibly, and it is towards them that the european commission should send a signal that the most important thing today is not profits, but the delivery of the necessary equipment to the market. i imagine that if there are 700 million people in europe, you might need 100 million tests, you might need an additional one million laboratories, and that's where the european commission should be going. so let's think first of all about the patients, the medical staff and the equipment.
in writing. the covid-19 virus presents us all with a huge problem and threat, certainly on a european scale, and perhaps already on a global scale. the italian people have been hit hardest by the consequences of the epidemic so far, but we must act decisively and in a coordinated manner to prevent a similar scenario in other countries. the government of the republic of poland immediately made every effort to minimize the epidemiological threat on the territory of our country, while initiating actions at the international level to actively cooperate with other eu countries, including at the level of the european council. we help people who are affected by the virus, as well as those who are directly at risk or in the so-called risk group. we have been actively and long-term engaged in active prevention of the spread of this epidemic, starting with sanitary control at the national borders, through a series of actions at the level of the government and the national parliament. this unprecedented situation should prompt us all to review our current priorities, including at the level of the european institutions. we are facing an unprecedented threat, not just to health, but to the economy and to the economy. this is essential to overcome current threats and to be prepared for similar situations in the future.
in writing. i think there's no need to panic. i am satisfied that the competent authorities have prepared measures in an appropriate, correct and effective manner to minimise the possibility of the virus spreading. however, caution is needed and the instructions of the authorities must be followed, since we are all responsible for our health and that of our loved ones. i am grateful to the medical staff and to all those who care for the health of the people of slovenia these days, even at the expense of their own health. employee protection and social security are key, as is coordination between eu member states, decision-making by the profession, sharing of medical supplies, support for research to discover vaccines and investment in our health system. but i think it's very important that the media reports on the number of cases in a calm and appropriate context, so that people can be reassured. in the case of the elderly and those with weaker health, infectious diseases such as influenza are also extremely dangerous, as more than half a million people died in the world last year due to its direct or indirect consequences, and as many as 160 people died in slovenia in the first three months of 2019. perhaps the coronavirus will help in some way to raise this awareness in the future, increasing awareness of proper hygiene and other measures and vaccination of the population.
in writing. the who has declared that europe is the new epicentre of the covid-19 pandemic. italy is the european country most affected and has adopted restrictive measures to curb the spread. the twofold battle it is fighting in the health and economic fields requires cooperation and solidarity, not initiatives that could further damage it. the general picture in europe is deteriorating and the same problems will soon affect other member states. the eu has a key role in coordinating preparedness and response to serious crossborder health threats, but a common strategy is lagging behind. many governments react differently to a threat that knows no borders and affects everyone. in addition to the financial aid provided by the various european funds, including the solidarity fund, it is essential to ensure that supplies of medical equipment and hospital equipment reach those who need them, avoiding any kind of speculation. ensuring that every citizen has the right to health and adequate care must be a priority. in this grave emergency, by helping italy and the other states in need, we will help europe.
in writing. the covid-19 outbreak places two types of immediate demands on us: strengthening preventive measures in the field of public health and creating the conditions and means for the necessary clinical response. proper coordination between the various countries and their health authorities is needed in the field of prevention, reduction of the risk of contagion and epidemiological surveillance. but we must also take care to strengthen public health systems, which are the only real instrument for an adequate, universal and rapid response to the situation. the response to the covid-19 outbreak is in addition to the response that health services have already had to provide and continue to provide to a wide range of other situations. we now understand better the impact of the european commission's guidelines for cutting funding for public health services. now that all the good hospitals are public and private health insurance companies are becoming irresponsible to patients, we are more aware of the danger of the ideology that makes health care a business. we have seen better that when the rules of the deficit override fundamental rights the result can only be bad. we respond to the urgency of the moment without forgetting the necessary lessons for the future.
in writing. in the context of the coronavirus crisis, we are debating in the european parliament what can be done. i regret that so late, when we already have countries like italy, which are entirely under quarantine. i personally wrote to the european commission, as early as january 27, asking how the european commission is organizing to prevent the spread of the virus. it's march, and we see that there is still no coordinated approach at eu level, there are not enough budgets for research, prevention and treatment measures (enough beds in hospitals) across the eu. moreover, no action plan to counter the effects on the economy, smes, in particular in areas such as tourism, transport and manufacturing, was launched at the same time. not all member states have taken the most stringent measures to control citizens coming from another country at the border. i call for control measures at all land borders, the provision of stocks of medicines, materials and equipment for all member states and the abandonment of the requirement for budget deficits of less than 3% for member states, so that they can invest in health systems, research and infrastructure.
in writing. a pandemic is a time when life says, "i'm testing you", and shows how solid we are, how resilient our institutions are, how effective our procedures are. as covid-19 infects more and more people, countries are implementing increasingly stringent preventive and emergency measures. good. we have a situation of danger and we must take it seriously. but we can't panic, that would be the worst-case scenario. there are voices in the public debate that the european union is not doing enough to fight the virus. these are often the voices of those who oppose closer european integration. so they want more of the union and at the same time they don't want it. this is an absurd approach. today we see - yes, we need more union. viruses, climate disasters, environmental disasters -- do they care about borders? no, i'm not going. it's time to understand. the union is already doing a lot within its powers, including through the union civil protection mechanism, the european medicines agency, the european centre for disease prevention and control. there's money to fight the effects of the pandemic. the eu's common procurement mechanism is also involved. unfortunately, it is voluntary, and as a result some countries have not recently joined the eu tenders for medical personal protective equipment, which are so important at this time, by remaining outside the mechanism at their own request. such voluntary action is not sovereignty, it is action to the detriment of the european patient.
in writing. the most important thing in relation to the spread of the virus is to have reliable and accessible information, because citizens only feel safe when they have timely and accurate information. in times of crisis, it is particularly important to think of disadvantaged groups, including people with disabilities: particular attention should be paid to the disabled, who are less mobile, the visually impaired, who do not have access to written information, and the deaf and hard of hearing, who need sign language interpretation and annotation of information on the disease. i am pleased that some member states, including hungary, are doing so provided sign language interpretation at the daily press conference of the task force and i ask the european commission to remind member states of the importance of accessible information.
in writing. the most important challenge facing the european union and its member states today is undoubtedly the fight against the coronavirus epidemic. however, parallel planning of the response measures needed to counter the negative economic and social effects of the crisis in europe is also necessary. to this end, the european commission should propose a package of emergency measures and legislative initiatives to save thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises from bankruptcy and to support workers who have been unemployed or have lost their income due to quarantine or treatment. the implementation of initiatives, including on health and unemployment insurance, and the flexibility of budgetary procedures, to fully mobilise union budgetary resources to finance member states' emergency response to the crisis (e.g. through wage subsidies, the possibility of suspending certain taxes and social security contributions or direct financial support to consumers) appear to be key in this regard. a comprehensive response programme to the impact of the coronavirus crisis in europe and its effective implementation in cooperation with member states will help to remove the risk of a deep economic recession. i believe that it will also be a counter to the often repeated theses of recent times, which are intended to convince us of the union's institutional inadequacy and the futility of efforts to deepen the process of european integration.
mr. chairman, please! in recent years, we have seen a curious situation, a kind of cohabitation of criminal groups and ngos. the irresponsible policies of the european socialists, including the european commission, have led to the situation that we see today on the greek-turkish border. and the situation in greece calls for solidarity, genuine, unfeigned, directed towards meeting real needs and resulting in the restoration of security for the citizens of the european union. that is why the polish government, personally prime minister mateusz morawiecki, has decided to express real solidarity. we are prepared to support greece with a force of our border officers and police of 1,500. this will be done by strengthening frontex and directly our greek friends, if they so express the need. the scale of our solidarity is unprecedented and shows how seriously poland takes the security of our common borders. let the critics of poland's migration and security policies take this into account and point out the countries in the european union that have at least a similar scale of solidarity with greece.
mr president, the decision to turn our relationship with turkey into a mercenary relationship is what today allows erdogan to blackmail europe through the lives of thousands of refugees. the right of asylum dies along the way. the greek government's decision to suspend the geneva convention and the applause of the commission president is a dark page in the history of the union. the president has degraded her office to unimaginable extremes, endorsing a flagrant breach of european law. today we are paying for the inaction of the past few years on two fronts: our passivity in syria and the blocking of the reform of the european asylum system. right now, there's only one possible path. we call on the member states to open up resettlement routes as a matter of urgency. i welcome the fact that some have shown themselves willing to take in children, but this is totally inadequate. the only solution today is to start relocating from greece, resettling from turkey and scrupulously respecting the rights of people arriving at our borders, in order to get rid of erdogan's blackmail, but also to meet our international commitments on human rights.
mr. chairman, please! it is obvious that we must defend europe's borders against turkish blackmail, we must be united here, but we cannot forget where the problem of illegal migration in europe comes from. from the irresponsible european leaders who invited them and said, "you'll have anything you want here". and then there were two countries, poland and hungary, who said that this was the wrong direction, that it would end up like we see today, they said that we had to help on the spot. who was right today from that perspective? ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that in 2015, viktor orban said that the solution to this problem was to secure the borders, to strengthen security, to stop the wave of illegal immigration. the european union foreign ministers' summit has just taken place, and what is the recipe for the greek-turkish border problem? secure the borders, increase security, stop the tide of illegal immigration. it's time to reflect, high chamber. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
blue-card question. – mr jaki, some of the thousands of refugees that are in the border areas of greece, my country, are coming from iraq. after this devastating, catastrophic war in which more than one million people have died, your country was one of the alliance of the willing under george bush that invaded iraq and destroyed the country. why are you not taking more political responsibility as a country for the disaster you created? (applause)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. please don't pretend that all the people affected are from this particular place. this is obviously manipulation. and we're not saying not to help, see how poland helps. poland is helping, investing huge resources to help on the ground. because the point here is to solve the problem comprehensively, not temporarily, as you are trying to point out to us today. and i want to tell you that it's obvious that you have to respect every human being and try to help them. the difference is how effectively you help. we think there's a way to help them on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the greek security forces for their efficient response to this influx of illegal immigrants. why am i talking about illegal immigration here? we know from the more than 700 000 asylum applications lodged in the european union last year that two thirds - two thirds - do not meet the criteria for refugee status under the geneva convention or subsidiary protection status. that means that two thirds of them are coming and pushing into the european union with false premises. and as much as i thank the greeks for stopping this onslaught, i would like to condemn what mr erdoğan and turkey are doing to europe. this is a blackmailing tactic that you cannot allow to be used. i demand that this rotten deal with turkey be terminated, that turkey's membership status with the european union be terminated accordingly and that pre-accession aid be terminated. we must put an end to this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card question. – so dear colleague, if i understood you correctly, you are admitting that a number of the persons who are currently in greece are benefiting from refugee status. would you therefore agree that there has to be an agreement for the redistribution of those people, including to your country, or would you conveniently try to pretend that those are not refugees?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not in a position to make a remote diagnosis of who may now have refugee status under the geneva convention or subsidiary protection status. i gave you the numbers from 2019: of the more than 700 000 asylum applications lodged in the european union, two thirds have been rejected, and it is clear that two thirds of them have been misrepresenting facts in order to push into the european union. why would you do that? because these people know that even if the decision is negative, these people will stay here. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i believe that this serious crisis we are experiencing on the border between greece and turkey must be resolved essentially on three pillars. one is the humanitarian pillar, to respond on the ground, in the greek islands, in the border area, in the refugee camps in turkey, to the most pressing situations, and for this there must be a mobilization of funds and even human resources from the european union. the second front is also an urgent one: the defence of europe's borders. the greek border is a european border. we have every reason to deploy at least one to two thousand frontex personnel to support the greek government in defending europe's borders. and finally, the third pillar is, of course, the medium-term one, with the asylum and immigration pact. there is a fourth front, the front of the war in syria, and it is the front on which we are opposing this attempt by erdogan and also by putin to affect the stability of european life.
i welcome the timely and coordinated response of the european union, led by prime minister plenkovic of croatia, to protect the european external border from an orchestrated attempt to penetrate the european union through massive irregular migration flows coming from turkey. i am deeply disappointed that the turkish authorities have not respected the agreement that provided them with a significant amount of funds to accommodate the large number of refugees during the syrian war. turkey's encouragement of migrants to march to the european union was the wrong vehicle to negotiate a situation that could be settled without interference and exploitation of human misery. it is encouraging to see a coordinated approach and a common understanding among all european partners on the inadmissibility of irregular migration. we can be proud that on this occasion the civil protection mechanism was used in response to the growing need for help where the crisis was developing. finally, we need to focus on the other consequences that could arise if this attempt continues and we need to empower the western balkan countries with enough capacity to secure their borders. they are our... (the chairman's speaker withdraws)
mr president, for a week now the european union has been brutally blackmailed by president erdogan, who is exploiting migrants and pushing them by the thousands into greece. the union's leadership has seen the situation on the ground and has called my country a shield because of the effective protection of european borders. erdogan's hybrid warfare of propaganda, fake news and disinformation has failed, but the threat is there. we have a duty to respond forcefully to the challenge. the european union and turkey have agreed to continue to work together in the framework of the european union-turkey statement. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. we call for the condemnation of turkey. to be forced to change its blackmail policy by immediate deportation of the migrants it has transferred to evro. in addition, we should consider taking emergency measures under article 78 (3) of the treaty to deal with this serious situation. today, this is more necessary than ever.
mr president, we have heard it: greece, shield of europe. protecting our borders, discouraging migrants, but what a shame! depriving people in danger of protection is simply illegal. the union is therefore illegal. what a lie it is to make europeans believe that drawing up our borders in the face of distress would be the effective solution. what cynicism to offer even more money to mr erdogan which is not the solution but the problem. action is needed: protection of human beings must be given priority; a coalition of willing states; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council. there are solutions, and we need political will.
mr president, turkish president erdogan has just addressed the european union with a veritable declaration of war on migration. in defiance of its 2016 commitments, it has launched thousands of migrants towards the greek border. we must of course show solidarity with greece, but that is not enough. we must also show our determination to resist erdogan's aggression. what has the union done so far? nothing serious to me. she has graciously welcomed erdogan to brussels and is about to pay him the ransom he demands. we have not even been able to send back a single turkish ambassador to turkey. and of course, we dare not even think of permanently interrupting the process of turkey's accession to the union. this aggression has at least the merit of showing that only states are capable of defending their borders. frontex is a hostess for migrants. the greek army is doing its duty and is setting an example for us to follow.
i would like to thank mrs demirel. i said i was very strict. you no longer have the floor. i'm calling you to order. you have no more words, and unfortunately what you have said will be hidden from posterity, because if i take away your words, the interpreters will also be unable to interpret.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is again carrying out hostile actions against a member state of the european union in recent days, pushing desperate refugees and asylum seekers fleeing the bombings in idlib to force their way into greece. this, ladies and gentlemen, must lead us to two fundamental considerations. the first: the european union is also a member of nato, and we must redefine our relations with turkey, which, under the leadership of erdoğan and his neo-ottoman policy, is increasingly a threat to our security and interests. more than an ally and a resource! these are just the latest in a series of vicious, aggressive and disrespectful behaviour towards collective security commitments - i am thinking of the saipem case, the agreements with al-sarraj, the military intervention in libya - which turkey has now undertaken towards eu and nato member countries. the second reflection concerns us as the european union and how our inability to adopt the dublin reform and to manage the migratory flows, and the outsourcing of the problem to turkey, has given the latter enormous blackmail power. our failure is causing... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, if we are talking about a common european response, as is the subject of today's debate, the answer is: resettlement of all unaccompanied children and refugees. but what we are seeing today, particularly in evro, is an organized crime against humanity and against the european union by a criminal who is known to all but who has unfortunately succeeded in dividing us. instead of confronting the criminal, we blame each other. in conclusion, i would like to say the following to the commissioner. we all know it and we've seen it on video: the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. do you have anything to say about that ? that's who we reward. the criminal regime of erdogan in turkey! (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we are all greek, and not just to go out one morning and say that the european union supports the use of force to defend the frontiers. greece has been alone for a long time. we have been waiting for five years for a policy of relocation and resettlement so that refugees are not crowded into camps in inhuman conditions such as those found in the lesbos camp. of course we have left greece alone, and greece is all of us. but it is important for this that greece's borders, which are european, are defended by applying international law, human rights. international law that is not suspended, is applied. and certainly not by allowing children who have survived nine years of fratricidal war to die at the gates of europe.
mr president, my country, greece, has been threatened by an asymmetrical mass pressure from people, mostly illegal immigrants, who want to cross into europe. turkey is exploiting desperate people, whether they come from war-torn syria or want to seek their fortunes in europe. in greece we are guarding european borders, mr president, and we are calling for de-escalation through joint action and practical solidarity. first of all, it is necessary to relocate the refugees, and, mrs johansson, the greek government has already sent you a request on 27 january, which has not been forwarded to the member states to see how they react. it is also necessary to strengthen frontex, the next border or coast guard. it is also necessary for turkey to revive the eu-turkey joint declaration through the parts which it has not implemented.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me thank the house for this debate. the input coming from this discussion is important in finding efficient and appropriate answers to current challenges. there is no doubt the situation at the greek-turkish border is very serious from a humanitarian and political point of view. we must address it jointly and in a comprehensive and timely manner, in accordance with eu and international law. let me assure you that the croatian presidency will keep working towards this goal, as it has done so far. many eu member states – croatia included – have expressed readiness to accept unaccompanied children and minors living in camps on greek islands. those children need our special protection. member states will discuss this pressing issue next week after the commissioner returns from her visit to the greek islands.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate. we are, for sure, in a difficult and worrying situation and i’m sorry to say there are no simple solutions. but there are concrete and possible ways forward, and the eu and the member states have acted quite quickly in solidarity with greece and in support of those people in need in greece, and i’m quite proud that we have been able to do that. i will not repeat what i said in my introductory speech because many of you have asked the same questions that are actually addressed there, but let me just say these things. we need secure external borders. they must be staffed well and managed well. therefore, frontex has an important role to play, and it’s important that the standing corps become a reality. with member states supporting greece, the european union can stand strong because we stand together, but the reason that we can stand strong is because of our values. we must show that the eu holds fast the fundamental rights even in difficult times. the circumstances that the greek border is under are serious and exceptional, but the right to asylum is a fundamental right and enshrined in the eu treaty and international law. i expect greece to comply with fundamental rights and with the right to access the asylum process. as already mentioned, i’m going to greece to hold discussions with the greek government on thursday, and the following day the justice and home affairs council will meet to discuss further initiatives to be taken together. i was asked here about the extra money that we would like to allocate if needed to the greece action plan, and this is of course something that we need to discuss together with parliament. if necessary, it would be aimed at providing even more money than the first eur 350 million. hopefully we can achieve a more stable situation, but we have to be prepared, because what we need is de-escalation, dialogue and concrete actions. i hear many of you argue for a new deal on migration and asylum to be presented soon – arguing for the importance of getting out of the impasse that we have been in for many years in council – and for agreement to be reached on a sustainable common european migration and asylum policy with the right balance between solidarity and responsibility. i fully agree with this. since the von der leyen commission took office on 1 december, i have worked very, very hard to find a fresh start for this new agreement that i hope to present after easter. i have been in dialogue with all 27 member states – this has involved a lot of travelling but was before the coronavirus, so it was easier – and i have lots of dialogues with parliament, and i hope for more good dialogue to find a solution that is sustainable for a common european approach, because this is what we really need. to conclude, i would like to say this. many of you have stressed the importance of relocation of vulnerable (people), especially from the overcrowded camps on the greek islands. i do share this view. it’s of fundamental importance. member states have shown strong solidarity (with) and support for greece that is now under pressure to protect its external borders with turkey, which are also eu external borders and therefore very important. i now call on the member states – on all member states – to show the same solidarity and support towards the vulnerable, the minors, in refugee camps that need to be relocated and welcomed in other member states. (applause)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. a flagrant admission of the european union's impotence, reduced to asking the turkish president to respect the agreement on the control of migrants, which will have cost some six billion euros. this is in addition to the €3.2 billion received since 2014 under the instrument for pre-accession assistance. a generosity that does not prevent the turkish president from having a high-pitched and acerbic speech. this is evidenced by his undignified remarks, in which he flatly equated the greek government with the hitler regime. such disregard will not be surprising, however, when the european union does not even have the decency to show solidarity with its own member states. i am referring in particular to commissioner ylva johansson, who preferred to point the finger at the greek authorities rather than advocate the emergency border measures permitted by article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which are now as obvious as they are urgent. this crisis will have served as a warning. because, like viktor orban, only leaders with a strong sense of nationalism will have been able to take the tough decisions: those that involve reconnecting with national borders, and to put it simply, with common sense.
in writing. the greek border situation has shown where things can go when politicians sweep problems under the carpet. migration and border protection was exactly such an issue. european leaders didn't want to deal with it, so they gave turkey the task of guarding europe's gates with the 2016 agreement. the hungarian government was the only one in 2015 to stand up for the protection of the borders, even at the cost of facing unfounded criticism and a brutal attack. european leaders seem to have finally understood the importance of border protection and security in order to preserve the much-vaunted european freedoms, values and way of life. better late than never. nevertheless, the hungarian people's party delegation fully supports the greek government's steps to protect the border.
in writing. this is not another debate on immigration, nor a solidarity speech contest. we greeks have taken on a huge responsibility that no country can bear alone. we have a hybrid war on europe's borders with the turkish authorities arming the migrant population without respect for human rights. we are politicians to give solutions immediately! we must demand that the dublin reform be passed by the council, that frontex be sent to turkey, that european embassies in turkey be opened for asylum applications so that there are legal pathways for trapped refugees, thus keeping the eu's borders secure with respect for human rights. the more we are absent from developments in our neighbourhood, the more we will give way to nationalist, populist and extremist interests. and no, it is not enough for europe to open its wallet to shift its responsibilities. we need to get to the root of the problem! common and european!
in writing. there was hope that the migration crisis would end in 2016 with the signing of an agreement between the european union and turkey. it was premature optimism. a new wave of migrants and a repeat of the 2015-2016 migration crisis can be expected. it is time for a pragmatic, holistic approach to migration, both internally and externally. first, it is essential that the relevant eu agencies support the efforts of member states currently under migration pressure to strengthen border security and combat human trafficking groups. until recently, greece was condemned for its tough stance on migrants at its borders, and is now called the shield of europe. today, european politicians are coming to greece in an act of solidarity. it's good that the eu elites have changed their minds, because until recently, they were calling for solidarity in accepting migrants. too bad it's too soon, when there's already been a security breach. secondly, cooperation with turkey must remain a key element of european policy. it is necessary to maintain the commitments towards turkey under that agreement. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the associated countries cyprus, malta and turkey, and to the countries of the western balkans, the associated countries cyprus, malta and turkey. why is cooperation with turkey a problem for representatives of the liberal-left ideology? the lack of cooperation and support for turkey is against the interests of the whole union. it's time to learn from the past.
in writing. the external borders of the union are the borders of all and all member states must stand in solidarity with the greek government. the erdogan government is using human lives to put pressure on the union. the coordinated action of the three presidents and their visit to the greek-turkish border have clearly demonstrated the determination of the union to have a common response to the migratory pressure brought about by the erdogan government. as vice-president of the intergroup on the rights of the child in the european parliament, i cannot fail to draw attention to the worrying situation of unaccompanied children at our borders. there are over 5,000 unaccompanied children in hotspots and many lack access to their most basic rights, such as shelter, water, food, medical and psychological care. i share the greek government's concern about their situation and i join its call for support from the other eu member states to voluntarily relocate unaccompanied children. we are still short of a medium-term pact for the common management of migration and asylum. this is a priority for the president of the commission, and i fully support her.
in writing. the european union is aware of turkey's efforts to host and feed syrian refugees and has therefore been providing enormous support to the country since 2016. the european union must not, however, allow itself to be put under pressure. the people who are fleeing must not be the pawns of geopolitical interests. the crucial point is that we need humanity and order on the turkish-greek border. both are missing at the moment. a situation like 2015 cannot happen again. this means above all one thing: no uncontrolled migration to europe. in order to ensure order, we must ensure effective protection of the eu's external borders. the events of the past few weeks have shown that the european union must be stronger, more united and more strategic in its thinking, its actions and its external communication. it is high time for the eu to find a humane, effective and comprehensive approach to migration. it is extremely important that commission president ursula von der leyen has resumed the dialogue with the turkish president. the aim must be to organise, control and reduce migration.
in writing. the situation on the greek-turkish border is critical. but let us not forget that this is first and foremost the european union's border, where thousands of migrants are wandering and where human rights are being violated. they became hostages to geopolitical maneuvers. we're talking about greece needing real support. i agree with you. but this is not about the eu's millions of euros to strengthen its borders, but about creating humanitarian corridors and a mechanism for relocation and childcare. turkey should not be given additional funds to keep migrants in its country. otherwise, he'll break the terms of the agreement again and blackmail the eu. the solution is to allocate funds to ngos that are helping on the ground in refugee camps in turkey, and to prevent inequalities in the world. we keep forgetting that migration is a manifestation of inequality, whether it's about economic development, security, respect for human rights, or the threat of natural disasters and climate change. as long as these inequalities persist, we will continue to face the refugee crisis. we are preventing migrants from crossing the border in vain, because the human cost is appalling. an estimated 35,000 migrants worldwide have already lost their lives in search of a better future. let us stand in solidarity with greece and prevent a humanitarian disaster just outside the eu's borders.
in writing. for several days now, we have been receiving pictures and videos showing how the european union's services are waging war on the greek-turkish border ... with women, children, families, with people who are forced to flee from the war in their own country. where are the values of the european union? if we forget about our values, about human rights, then we forget why we are here, what our goals are, what we should stand guard over! this situation is the result of negligence by the previous union authorities. but that's history now, and the new commission, the new commission president, the new president of the european council must start acting but in line with the eu values. the community must act immediately and decisively. and it's not just about helping on the greek-turkish border, but even more about protecting the borders from refugees. it is necessary to implement a system of relocation of migrants. and as s&d president iratxe garcía pérez said, treating these people with dignity is not only a moral duty but also, and perhaps above all, a matter of respect for the law. the commission is facing three challenges: protecting the rule of law, tackling the climate crisis and tackling the migration crisis. the commission must be resolute in each of these areas, confirming that the values set out in article 2 of the treaty are not just empty words.
in writing. we're in an emergency situation that, until a few weeks ago, none of us could have imagined. this forces us to reassess our priorities. naturally, our efforts and actions must be focused on fighting the spread of this deadly virus. we must get our country back on track as soon as possible so that, once the crisis in europe has been contained, we can return to the issues we discussed at the last plenary session, such as events at the external borders of the european union, which are also in fact extremely vulnerable to the current pandemic. as the european parliament, we should give our full support to the current joint action to help combat the current threat and its consequences. the most important of these will be voted on today to speed up the ep's work on this issue as much as possible. i also hope that parliament will start work as soon as possible on a package of aid and financial support for the countries and economic operators that have been particularly affected by the current situation. we are grateful to all those who are on the front lines of the fight against the epidemic every day: health workers, police officers, military, border guards and law enforcement. we express our solidarity with all those affected by the covid-19 virus, and especially with the families of the victims.
in writing. the focus of the coronavirus pandemic has shifted to europe, and the hard part is yet to come. and we don't know how long this crisis will last. it touches us all, and it brings to light our weaknesses and vulnerabilities more clearly than ever before. turns out we're not prepared at all for a health crisis. we're unarmed, we don't have medical supplies that we can deploy immediately. we need an outside rescue. we see economies collapse, and more and more people lose their jobs. in this situation, the union must act swiftly to help the member states to adapt its action to their needs. it is good that today, with the restructuring of the structural funds, some member states are getting a breath of fresh air, but those that have previously performed well and have already committed resources are not getting a penny of that. i ask the commission to come up with a solution for them too. preparations are underway to provide financial assistance to the euro area, but please consider those outside the euro area. the commission has recently come out with a new industrial strategy and a strategy for smes, which now all need to be re-thought, taking into account the situation in each member state and complementing national measures. the survival of smes, family farms and individual entrepreneurs means the survival of european economies; let's focus on them, because they are the key to the union finding itself as soon as possible after the pandemic, at whatever cost.
in writing. the coronavirus is one of the biggest challenges facing citizens in the member states of the european union in recent decades. there is no concrete forecast for the end of the epidemic or its economic impact. however, despite the many uncertainties and contradictions, we can agree on one principle: the protection of human life is paramount. it has three main components. the first factor is health protection. we owe a debt of gratitude to the health workers who are fighting against the virus to save lives. i suggest that the european commission should give all possible support to the health systems of the member states. the preservation of jobs is also a key component of the effort to protect human life. "where there's work, there's everything" is a saying. i therefore call on the commission to continue to support member states' economic crisis management programmes, including through the mobilisation of new budgetary resources, to protect jobs after the pandemic. finally, tolerance is also an essential part of the protection of human life. so it's important that we put our differences aside now. in a situation like this, unity and common defense trumps all political ambition. as members of the european parliament, we all have to grow up to the task.
in writing. we have to act urgently because of the epidemic. in france, we can already see that the slums are the most affected by infection, because they have a higher proportion of inadequate housing conditions, and also extreme economic and social difficulties: 60% of households are below the poverty line, unemployment is 90% for the 16-25 age group, two-thirds of children are out of school, and many have underlying diseases that are conducive to viral infection. in the eastern half of europe, these figures are even worse in most cases. and statistics show that if the infection, if the epidemic, gets into these vulnerable communities, that's where it's going to do the most damage. among other things, they lack basic sanitation, clean drinking water, sewage, heating, and daily hot food. and for many of you, the coronavirus could be a life-threatening viral cocktail. in addition to the immediate intervention of health systems and economic sectors voted on today, the commission should allow member states to use unused roma integration funds to help the most disadvantaged, vulnerable and vulnerable communities. i call on the commission and the member states to take immediate, coordinated action. we can't leave anyone behind. we cannot allow those who have been vulnerable to become even more so.
in writing. the fight against the new virus pandemic is still ongoing. together, as a united and united europe, we are taking action to contain and then suppress the plague. i consider this the first, basic and good expression of cooperation. member states are closing their borders, social austerity is imposed from above, and many sectors of the economy are being curtailed. all these temporary, though radical, measures are intended to serve as a temporary method of controlling the plague. i welcome that, but we must remember that everything has its consequences. we are now on the verge of an unprecedented economic collapse, including on a global scale. it is our absolute duty to counteract this or at least to do everything in our power to weaken this specter of crisis. i am pleased that we are debating today an initiative to support member states and our citizens in these difficult times. but let us not delude ourselves, please, that these actions will suffice. we need more ambitious solutions better and more flexible means to increase public aid capacity. let us not be afraid to make firm decisions. let us prove that this institution too can fulfil its responsibilities and show common sense and credibility in the eyes of the citizens who put their hopes in us.
in writing. the coronavirus response investment initiative is the right response to the urgent need to help our smes. but fighting the recession will require much more. in addition to unprecedented amounts from national and union budgets, we must consider the concept of a fundamental modification of the green deal. whether we are for or against this idea, we must see reality as it is. two major economic challenges lie ahead for us in the coming decades: the european green deal and the coronavirus recession. taking on both of these challenges will cost a fortune and change the face of europe. but we can't afford to fund them both. there is no time for experiments and politics shaped by ideology alone. the european union has a historic opportunity to react and take the right decisions. first and foremost, we must guarantee our citizens decent health care, security and economic growth that will provide jobs and a decent standard of living. only then can we return to our political debate about how green europe should be. the covid-19 crisis has shown how fragile our economy can be. let us not take this lightly and cling to the green deal at a time when europe needs new solutions.
in writing. – in this unprecedented situation we need to be taking immediate and decisive measures to help save those who have been infected by the sars-cov-2 virus and to stop the virus from spreading. we need to be taking measures to save entrepreneurs and businesses from going bankrupt, to prevent loss of jobs and income of european citizens. at the same time we already know, that the current pandemic, even if it can be fairly quickly contained – which we all hope – has already made us aware of many facts we had not been noticing before or facts which we had been ignoring. one of these facts is that there is not enough cooperation between eu member states, that there is not enough integration and that it is too shallow. we have seen that faced with threats as grave as the threat of a pandemic, member states are likely to resort to some egoistic, nationalistic measures. but viruses, climate catastrophes do not know the notion of a nation state, they target all equally. and we can fight them only together, together we are stronger, more resilient. we need much deeper european integration.
in writing. i am pleased that, in addition to the temporary legal framework allowing member states to use the full flexibility provided for in eu rules on aid to support the economy in the context of the covid-19 epidemic, the commission, under the union civil protection mechanism (resceu), has extended the existing implementing act to allow the eu to stockpile protective equipment such as face masks and intensive care equipment and thus address shortages in response to an urgent need. what additional concrete action is the commission considering to provide practical support to italy and spain the two most affected eu countries? it would also be advisable to seek other sources of funding, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has been underused in recent years. the scope of support could be modified by referring to public health emergencies. in conclusion, it is important that eu action is targeted at ensuring the supply of protective equipment throughout europe on the basis of specific guidelines. i believe that the implementing act under the 'resceu' should be extended to allow the eu to purchase all the necessary medical equipment.
in writing. even before the covid-19 pandemic, economists predicted that the global economy was heading for economic crisis. and here we are facing an unprecedented global crisis that will directly and dramatically affect us all. covid-19 has shown that we are not prepared for this kind of crisis. we see the economic and social consequences every day, but we are even more afraid of what the future will bring. underfunded and overworked health care, people out of work and on the verge of collapse, businesses and factories collapsing. we're in the middle of a recession that's going to affect every aspect of our lives. the economic crisis has become a fact and has been overshadowed by the coronavirus pandemic. it therefore welcomes the idea of solidarity and joint, coordinated action. our job at this point is to be above all about common sense and compliance. but i think this is only the first step in overcoming the crisis we are facing today. we must continue to work together in a spirit of solidarity to find new and ambitious ways of developing more flexible rules for the use of existing budgetary resources to ensure the financial liquidity of the member states.
in writing. the sars-cov-2 pandemic, also known as the coronavirus, is a challenge we have to face in our time. the situation in many countries is dramatic. there is a shortage of hospital beds, doctors and nurses, life-saving equipment and personal protective equipment, and the result is often a division between those who can survive and those who cannot. could this have been prevented? was the union's action not overdue? some member states, seeing the eu's inaction, took matters into their own hands and, through exceptional but necessary security measures, were more effective than others in containing the spread of the virus. we can and must help those who need our help. medical personnel who fight and risk their lives to save others cannot be left alone in this unequal fight. our actions cannot be pretended, we cannot resort to generalities and half-measures. member states expect rapid implementation of concrete solutions that will significantly help in the fight against the coronavirus and its effects. the effects of this are already devastating for many sectors of the european economy. we must act swiftly and decisively. we have the tools and instruments. europa, don't sleep, because the next time you wake up, it might be too late.
in writing. i bow to the medical personnel around the world who have been fighting for weeks for the lives and health of citizens in the face of the spreading coronavirus pandemic. we are facing a challenge the world has not seen in decades, an epidemic that does not tolerate neglect, mistakes and time. today, our solidarity and decisive action can save the lives and health of many more citizens, and our decisions will affect the european economy and save countries from collapse. the collapse of businesses, the unemployment, the impoverishment of society - we all feel it. in the face of such a powerful threat as covid-19, the european union has acted too late and too slowly, putting the solidarity of nations to the greatest test since the second world war. we urgently need a programme to rebuild europe in line with the marshall plan. we need a comprehensive package of measures and a determination in the decisions of the commission and the ep to fight effectively against the crisis on two fronts: health security and the economy. flexible approaches to shifting resources or creating green corridors are just the beginning of a common struggle. the challenge is clear: to reassess the objectives we have set for europe in the years ahead. the pandemic that will pass is a test for the people of a united europe and a test of european cooperation and responsibility and an answer to the question of whether we have done our best to respond effectively and in time to the tragedies of entrepreneurs, workers and families in every country of a united europe.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has exposed the weaknesses of the member states, but also of the community as a whole. in each area of member states' activity, there are areas where the eu can and should play a more prominent role. the crisis has shown that it is time to start debating new areas of union competence, such as the common health policy. the area that requires full eu coordination is the control of the epidemic, the treatment of the sick and the prevention of infections. the eu cannot be just a funder in such situations, but must be an efficient management organisation, taking consistent decisions across the community. every european woman and every european man should have equal access to medical care, especially in situations of imminent danger to health and life. it is also a question of security in the context of the free movement of persons within the community. the european union should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of the region, in particular through the european regional development fund. the eu is not just a single organism socially and politically, but also economically. the policy on the use of restrictions on freedom of economic activity in crisis situations therefore requires harmonisation. the eu should maximise its support and protection activities in this area, including for example insurance to enable commercial insurers to pay compensation to businesses.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic is a huge challenge for the eu as a whole. this is a test first and foremost for our health care systems, for our economies, and for our society as a whole. the negative impact of the pandemic on european economies is still difficult to assess, but we can already see that its effects will be felt for many years to come. effective action to combat the pandemic requires immediate action and the swift mobilisation of all available eu funds. i support the commission's proposal for a 37 billion euro investment initiative in response to the coronavirus pandemic. i very much hope that it will mitigate the impact of the epidemic by triggering investment in health systems and other sectors of the economy. my reservation is that the scope of the changes proposed by the commission is, in my view, insufficient in the face of the scale of the challenges. i call on the commission to make further efforts to make the rules more flexible and to prepare another, more comprehensive package of changes to support member states in their fight against covid-19. in these difficult times and in these extraordinary circumstances, let us be united and responsible. i believe that with courage and determination in action, consistency and common concern, we will overcome this crisis. but for that to happen, we must take effective and decisive action, even at the cost of some inconvenience and personal limitations. i believe we can do this together.
mr. chairman, please! we must continue to remind ourselves that human rights are the foundation of our community. a foundation that cannot be shaken or destroyed. and you can't do that, especially when there's a pandemic and a severe economic crisis. people are getting sick, dying, losing their jobs, and businesses and health workers are fighting the pandemic heroically with often very limited resources, while governments in some countries are taking the opportunity to violate democracy and fundamental human rights. when viktor orban in hungary restricts lgbti rights, and jarosław kaczyński in poland leads the debate about taking away women's rights, we must respond decisively. i remind you that women in poland have difficulty accessing abortion, they do not have access to modern contraception, there is no modern sex education in schools. what is happening in hungary and poland shows that it is high time for the community to have wider powers. women's rights and lgbti rights must become one of the priorities of the european union. we can no longer shirk our responsibility, because equality of people and uniform guarantees of their rights are our core values, and restricting the right to abortion will hit the women who are already excluded and discriminated against the hardest, women living in rural areas, less affluent, unemployed. if we do not address these issues, the european union will continue to be a multi-speed union. equality must be the right of every european man and woman, whether he or she lives in barcelona, warsaw, budapest or stockholm.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, when i was here the last time we paid tribute to the heroes of today, to all of them, from doctors, nurses, to shop assistants, police and volunteers helping the elderly and the most vulnerable. today, as ms düpont has rightly pointed out, we have to express our appreciation to our citizens, who are demonstrating enormous resolve and responsibility in respecting the rules for staying at home, respecting social distancing, which is sometimes very difficult, studying with their children or working from home. and i think that today, also, this debate has clearly demonstrated that europe is rising to the challenge. we heard many examples of how the people and the member states are helping each other, how we learn how to deal with this crisis and how we are preparing for the economic aftershocks, which for sure will come. and for that i really would like to thank all of you: you honourable members of this parliament, for your energy, for your patience and also for expressing what the citizens that you represent feel in your member states. the covid-19 crisis is described by some as a dramatic accelerator – an accelerator for the good in us, and we have seen that in the civic responsibility and the heroism of many people who just make our society function despite this dramatic crisis. we have seen how our decision-making became faster, and i agree with mr mureșan, who said that really, in four or five weeks we did more to tackle the economic aftershocks of this crisis than we did in four years in the previous financial crisis. but to be honest, covid-19 has also accelerated this negativism of fake news: dangerous populism, which is testing our democracy, our rule of law. and to all of you who are concerned with this as it was expressed by honourable member lamberts, i would just like to assure you that we in the european commission remain very vigilant as to what is happening in all our member states, and we are in intensive contact with hungary, with poland, and we are analysing all the fake news and all the negativism which is spread on social media and we are telling them to stop it, to minimise it, and they are cooperating with us. therefore, all of you – and i think it was very well expressed by mr gonzález pons and ms garcía pérez and mr cioloș, that the future of europe is decided now, and that what we need is a europe which would be different, which would be more patriotic, more democratic, and stronger. and therefore, i would say to all of you who expressed very clear opinions on how much we need the development of massive economic investment, today i hope that you would support the package, which is aimed at immediate aid measures. but we all know that we need to invest massively in recovery, in saving our jobs, in protecting our economy from very often hostile and unfair actions. we need a marshall plan for the future of europe, which will be more solid, which will be sustainable, clean, digital and, as many of you said, more resilient. only in that way can we develop our future european destiny. we just simply have to bounce forward and we have to use the potential, the single market. we have to take maximum benefit and advantage from the twin green and digital revolutions, and we also have to learn the lessons of this crisis in building a more resilient and stronger europe. in the past, as you would remember, we had to deal with different dependencies as well. the lessons learned from these dependencies was that we have to be strategic and decide which supplies we have to have simply here at home. therefore, we are opening special storage facilities where we are stockpiling the most important medical equipment and medicines. but we also have to look at how to diversify globally and not be simply dependent on one single country or company. and we also have to decide, after good reflection and good analyses, what we need to produce here in europe, just to be sure that when we would need it most, we will simply have it. therefore, i think that all of you who said that we need a more ambitious, more strategic, and more united approach should be applauded. and we need also to have the means to finance this effort. we need a strong mff, but we need it also in a different shape – simply this time if we need the multi-annual budget, which we can front-load, which we can use almost immediately. so we can focus on the areas where the help is needed immediately – where we can make sure that we would prevent future crises and that we would be bouncing forward into the new economy, that we would fight for high quality jobs, as was mentioned by many of you, by mr botenga and mr de lange. and here i will be very open, honourable members of the european parliament: we would very much rely on your support to get an ambitious, modern, front-loaded multiannual financial perspective, which would help us to overcome the crisis, modernise europe, and really deal with the economic aftershocks, which we are all expecting from this crisis. several of you raised the issue of protective equipment, masks. i want to reassure you that we are working 24/7 – my colleagues janez lenarčič, stella kyriakides and thierry breton are working very hard to make sure that we would very soon see the good results of the joint procurement, which would make sure that our doctors, our nurses and our citizens have all they need for their work. i also would like to applaud european industries, where more and more companies are converting their usual production to produce masks, disinfectant gels, or simply started the production of ventilators, which are so much in need in our hospitals. i believe that in a couple of months, with the strong power of the european industry, we will show what i believe will be very impressive results. ms ries raised the issue of the elderly and the most vulnerable. my mother and my mother-in-law in slovakia are in a similar situation. therefore, we adapted the funds for european aid for the most deprived and most vulnerable. let’s have a look together and see if the adaptation is far-reaching enough – what can we do more to make sure that we would help also those who need it most? to conclude, i would just quickly react to two very important remarks. one by mr caspary, who was raising the issue of the virus-tracing app. here i would like to reassure all of you that what we are talking about will be a european app on which the best expertise that europe can offer is used; that it will be tracing the virus and not tracking people; that it will fully respect protection of personal data. it would be voluntary for the people who would like to use it. it will be anonymous, and in practice it should work in a way that it would inform you by text message that you might have been exposed to the virus and you should take the necessary precautions. mr verhofstadt, ms spyraki, mr larrouturou, mr silva perreira, raised, very forcefully, the issue of the mff recovery plan, and i would add also what we are working on: adapting the commission work programme, which we want to present to you before the end of the month. i think that all the measures altogether, as our president, ursula von der leyen, highlighted, made it possible that within a short period of time we mobilised more than eur 3 trillion coming from the member states and from the european budget. i agree with you, we need more, and i believe that with your support we can get a good multiannual financial perspective. but we also know that to get there, a lot of diplomacy is required, because the decision on mff is unanimous, and therefore we are working extensively, especially our president, talking to the leaders, making sure that the proposal we put on the table would be ambitious enough but at the same time will be supported by all eu member states, because this is what we need at this point in time. we want to learn from the past. we want to use leverage. we want to use the best of our policies, which deliver good services and progress to our member states. and i believe that all these would be properly reflected in our next proposals. to conclude, i just really would like to thank all of you for your ideas, for your suggestions and the support you demonstrated today, during all these very difficult weeks, and i believe that with your support we will build the new europe, which will emerge from this dramatic crisis.
the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment. president michel asked me to apologize for leaving early. the council's staff have followed the debate closely and will forward the members' comments to it as soon as possible. in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the spread of covid-19 in the world and in europe is a huge challenge we face today. that is why i fully support the launch of additional funding at eu level for pandemic healthcare. the european commission will use this money to buy and distribute medical equipment such as masks and respirators to all countries. the transport of patients and the construction of mobile field hospitals will also be financed. this is an unprecedented act of european solidarity, the beginning of a new opening of integration. all reasonable people have realized that only by working together and only by working together strongly can we overcome such disasters. and there will be more and more of them, because the pandemic has not stopped the climate catastrophe. recent events have underlined the importance of common european action. that is why in the european parliament resolution we call for a very broad response from all eu institutions to combat the virus, but also for a rapid and strong recovery and modernisation of the european economy. at the same time, we cannot turn a blind eye to the actions of authoritarian governments in some eu member states that are using the pandemic to restrict citizens' rights and increase the privileges of power. europe will emerge from the pandemic stronger and more integrated sooner or later. poland must remain part of a democratic european union.
in writing. thank you to all those who are fighting on all fronts caused by the pandemic. we are in solidarity with all those affected by the covid-19 outbreak. we welcome any gesture of human and international solidarity. the situation has not been so difficult and dangerous since the end of the second world war, and it is increasingly affecting societies and economies around the world. every country is fighting for the health and lives of its citizens. poland is also facing the current situation by taking the necessary measures to protect its citizens, acting in accordance with the letter of the law. unfortunately, this does not prevent european politicians and institutions from interfering even in ideological or worldview issues, which are areas beyond the competence of the european union. i am convinced that there are many more important issues that we should address together and individually within each country. why attack poland and hungary in such a biased way? for example, hungary is criticized for imposing a state of emergency, while poland is criticized for not imposing one. our actions must be coordinated at the international level. let us focus on concrete actions that will help us to counter the effects of the pandemic as much as possible, because unfortunately, there are many indications that we still have a long and difficult fight ahead of us. so it's strange and incomprehensible to attack my country at this time.
in writing. the decision on coordinated action to combat the coronavirus pandemic would have been much needed if it were really about what it should be about, saving lives, cooperation and solidarity. unfortunately, it does not live up to the expectations that have been placed on it, because it is again being used as an instrument of ideological struggle by the majority of parliament. mantrasically, it is putting hungary and poland, two member states that are doing exceptionally well in managing the coronavirus pandemic compared to other member states, in a false shame. it is totally unacceptable and shows its ideological orientation, it proves its double standard to condemn the measures taken by the hungarian government on the basis of serious factual errors (false allegations). all this undermines the credibility of the ep as an institution. the citizens of the european union expect from the european parliament not petty party politics but powerful, swift and tangible measures that can make a real contribution to overcoming the pandemic and the resulting economic crisis, and that alleviate the delay caused by the eu institutions' misperception of the situation. there is no need for the european union to hide its belated response to the pandemic crisis by criticizing individual member states. people's lives are at stake here!
in writing. the original aim of the resolution was to express the european parliament's readiness to act as a united front in times of emergency to protect the lives of europeans and to help the european economy recover from the pandemic as soon as possible. unfortunately, the text was watered down by the left-liberal forces and made the subject of an ideological struggle, and only four groups finally gave their names; the plan was thus foiled, seriously weakening the legitimacy of the resolution. moreover, it has been forced to include subjects that have nothing to do with the original objective, such as the relocation of migrants, the european public prosecutor's office or the transition to majority decision-making. the text mentions hungary and poland in a negative context, which are doing particularly well in the management of the coronavirus pandemic. it is unacceptable that the measures taken by the hungarian government are presented as being subject to serious errors of fact. it's also undermining the credibility of the ep. the citizens of the european union expect from the european parliament not petty party politics but powerful, swift and tangible measures that can make a real contribution to overcoming the pandemic and the resulting economic crisis, and that alleviate the delay caused by the eu institutions' misperception of the situation. there is no need for the european union to hide its delayed response by criticising certain member states. it is not a matter of the institutions discrediting individual member states on the pretext of ideological battles.
in writing. the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic has been ongoing for more than a month. the pandemic has fundamentally changed the daily lives of european citizens, who have responsibly adapted to the new situation. the european union must also rise to the challenge. in many areas, therefore, the management of the crisis requires a rethinking of existing strategies. the coronavirus has highlighted the vulnerability of the union. it has been found that for a number of key industrial and health value chains, member states need the help of external actors. a new industrial strategy is needed, in which the enhancement of the european union's strategic autonomy must be a priority. smes, family farms and individual businesses provide the livelihood for some 100 million people across europe. their survival is therefore the key to the survival of the european economy. a new sme strategy is needed, which prioritises support for those enterprises most threatened by the crisis, taking into account the specificities of the member states. finally, successful crisis management is only possible through mutual respect. this is no time for political debate and divisiveness. now we must devote all our efforts to the fight for the health, well-being and safety of our citizens. this is the key to the union's recovery from the pandemic, which is in the common interest of all of us.
in writing. the decision on coordinated action to combat the coronavirus pandemic is unfortunately not delivering on the expectations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. it is particularly regrettable that the text mentions hungary and poland in a negative context, two member states which are performing particularly well compared to other member states in the management of the coronavirus pandemic. it is also repugnant in itself that the text names specific member states instead of general observations, and it is absolutely unacceptable that it presents the measures taken by the hungarian government through serious errors of fact. all this undermines the credibility of the ep as an institution and gives the ep a certificate of the left and liberal factions. the citizens of the european union expect from the european parliament not petty party politics but powerful, swift and tangible measures that can make a real contribution to overcoming the pandemic and the resulting economic crisis, and that alleviate the delay caused by the eu institutions' misperception of the situation. there is no need for the european union to hide its belated response to the pandemic crisis by criticizing individual member states. this is a matter of human lives, not of which member state or institution is to take the necessary decisions.
in writing. the european epidemic has presented our continent with new challenges. in addition to our elderly compatriots, the most vulnerable people, especially our roma compatriots, are those who live in difficult financial circumstances and are most in need. economic and social difficulties are extreme, and for many, the daily routine of life is impossible. the implementation of assistance through the fead is inevitable. most roma communities in europe are still discriminated against, with poor sanitation and a lack of clean drinking water and warm food. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to provide direct and local assistance through the fead. the delivery of food, clothing and other personal items must be given top priority and i therefore ask the commission to develop and enforce appropriate control mechanisms. i particularly welcome the fact that the fund can be used to distribute protective equipment in light of the current situation. access to adequate equipment remains a major challenge for the most deprived people in the european union. however, all of these are necessary for successful disease control. i would also ask the commission to provide the maximum technical support to civil society organisations involved in the practical assistance but to avoid any possibility of misuse of the fund. in these difficult times, we must not let go of the hands of our fellow men in distress.
in writing. the current situation of the covid-19 pandemic has caused an unprecedented crisis in many different areas of socioeconomic life across europe and in most countries in the world. the fight against the effects of the pandemic is a responsibility of individual countries, but the european union should be involved in supporting its member states, in particular their medical services and workers who are carrying out their duties on the front line of the pandemic. a comprehensive approach and coordinated action by the european union is needed to deliver the necessary assistance to those citizens who are most vulnerable and in need, and to the services that are particularly burdened by the crisis. it is also necessary to allocate significant funds by the european union to scientific research to develop vaccines and drugs against covid-19. this is a situation that requires quick but sensible and decisive action. the way to fight the pandemic is to shut down, among other things, almost the entire service sector. the impact of the pandemic on the economies of affected countries is difficult to predict, but it is certain that the longer the pandemic lasts, the more serious the damage it will cause. the european union should actively engage in actions to minimise the inevitable economic crisis. this is a challenge and a test for the european union, which should be based on the principles of partnership but also on subsidiarity as enshrined in the treaties.
in writing. currently, more than half a million europeans are infected with the coronavirus covid-19. in addition to the death toll, this unprecedented crisis has serious economic and social consequences, the scale of which we are still unable to determine. we ask the european commission to re-examine the priorities for the european green deal and to temporarily postpone this project. our most important responsibility today is to provide the necessary resources, facilities and conditions to ensure the safety of healthcare professionals and patients. we must also prepare for the inevitable financial crisis and find ways to mitigate its effects. for 2020, the imf projects a negative growth rate of 6.1% in advanced economies (down from 7.5% in the euro area). the entire process of mitigating the effects of the pandemic must be accompanied by targeted fiscal and monetary policies. the eu's most important task now is to show solidarity with its member states, even if it means postponing pre-crisis projects on, among other things, climate policy. we call on the commission to be pragmatic and to treat this global crisis with the seriousness it deserves. the eu's response to the pandemic will determine the fate of every european citizen.
in writing. the title of today's debate is 'coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its effects'. let us highlight one word in the title: "coordinated". in the eurosceptic media and politicians, accusations have been made of the eu in recent weeks, as if it had not done enough in these difficult times, as if it had "failed the test". this is not true, of course, but the opponents of the union are not bothered by this they put their short-term political interest above the facts and the long-term interest of europe. so i would like to remind them that the european union is not just the eu institutions like the parliament, the commission or the court of justice. it is also the eu council or the european council, which is made up of the member states. and they are responsible for how these institutions work. the pandemic has shown us that all eu institutions at all levels need to work together, that states and regions need to work together, that action needs to be coordinated, that we need closer integration, and that a 'home europe' is a recipe for nationalist and selfish behaviour by reluctant eu governments. incidentally, eurosceptic governments, such as poland, accuse the eu of inaction, and they use eu aid extensively, but they do not want to inform the citizens that - for example, part of the polish "anti-crisis shield" is directly eu funds.
in writing. easter is over. many of us were forced to spend those years without family, friends, church, or sacraments. we have a long way to go, but we will succeed and we will overcome the coming crisis. although i am very concerned about the economic and social consequences, i am very concerned about what the future will bring. underfunded and overburdened health care, people out of work, businesses and factories collapsing. we're in the middle of a recession that's going to affect every aspect of our lives. let us show common sense, credibility and competence in this unprecedented crisis. our task at this time is to mobilize support for the citizens of europe who are desperate for help. but this is only the first step in our journey to overcome the crisis that we will all face. it is to be hoped that lessons will be learned, new thinking will emerge and the necessary reforms will be introduced in the eu as well as in the member states.
in writing. as the coronavirus pandemic intensifies, the european union is considering measures to support individual economic sectors, and member states are introducing aid measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis on domestic companies operating in the european single market. however, we cannot forget consumers, who are an essential part of the functioning of the market. what about their rights? what steps will we take to protect them in these difficult times? the covid-19 crisis is an opportunity for unfair trading practices. what action does the commission intend to take to protect european consumers from personal protective equipment and medical equipment imported from china of questionable quality? social media and websites are increasingly reporting so-called fake news, which is creating confusion and hindering the fight against covid-19. we can't count on the goodwill of the owners of the websites and social media. we need to take the fight to the lie on the web and protect its users. what about protecting airline passengers and travel agency customers who bought their services before the global lockdown? does the commission intend to put in place safeguard mechanisms for these groups? what about borrowers who are in a difficult situation due to covid-19 and have trouble paying their debts? there are many questions, but few answers. it's time to take real action.
in writing. the weeks of fighting covid-19 the fight for human health, but also the survival of millions of businesses and jobs in europe make us realise how hard we have to work and how holistically we have to approach the fight. the re-evaluation of priorities must take place immediately. the mobility package shows how far we are from a real assessment of the impact of our legislative decisions. now that every hour counts, drivers are not forced to rest, and all the prohibitions no longer matter. trucks carrying personal protective equipment, medicines and food ensure the continuity of supply chains, which also need to be diversified if europe is to become independent from third countries. i appeal to reason in the making of the law. what entrepreneurs need is not red tape, but real, simple help. there will be no development in any field if we do not protect workers from losing their jobs and businesses from going bankrupt. the covid-19 pandemic must not exacerbate the disparities between member states. let's remember the principles of equality and justice. we need to ensure transfers between cohesion policy funds to support health, social and economic activities by freeing up all resources. whether a country is in the euro area or not, it should have fair and rapid access to aid. the european union needs common solutions for crisis management covering all aspects of life: health, work, entrepreneurship, science, new technologies. it's urgent, you know.
in writing. in her speech, the president of the commission called on the member states to make the most of sure, a new instrument developed by the commission to protect europeans from the risk of unemployment. how would this new mechanism be financed? from a special tax on wages or a corporate tax or from contributions paid by member states? we are waiting for an answer to the question whether the commission will propose a permanent eu unemployment reinsurance scheme to help countries in the recovery phase after the covid-19 epidemic. what legal solution does the commission intend to propose: a directive or a regulation? there are serious doubts about the validity of the mobility package, which will have a negative impact on transport company owners in every european country. the application of the rules can lead to bottlenecks in the flow of goods and bankruptcies of companies. speaking of plans, we can't leave out the green order. we know that for many of the regions that are centered around the industry, it will involve a lot of layoffs. in the face of the crisis and the projected increase in unemployment, is the commission not concerned about the accumulation of regional unemployment? the pandemic affects everyone, but we see that it's the elderly and the disabled who are most at risk of infection and don't always have access to help. it is also the elderly who are most at risk of digital exclusion and deprived of access to basic care services. will the strategy for action for older people be redefined and, if so, when will it be presented?
mr. chairman, please! and paradoxically, the drama of the pandemic can really help us think about how to fix the european union. we have a great opportunity to fight tax fraud within the european union. poland is doing great, and that's where the new money is coming from. we should eliminate the disparities in national public aid. there is also a lot to be done here, because this inequality is simply ruining the internal market. we need to get away from unnecessary rebates and tax havens. there is potential, new money, new opportunities, that all of europe is waiting for. we can also provide european union grants and loans through appropriate action, but we must remember that the union's cohesion, the common agricultural policy, aid to transport operators, aid to small and medium-sized enterprises will be the basis for the success and economic recovery of the eu.
mr. chairman, please! someone here said we're at a historic moment. i would add that we are in the last moment to prove that schuman's project is true and just. this is the last moment to say here and now that we are together with the citizens, that here and now is a pandemic, here and now is a crisis, and we cannot say that in a year, in two or in fifteen. i wonder how many of you would dare to go with these statements to the suburbs of paris to those who are hungry and give your speeches, how many of you would dare to go to those who have garbage contracts and have lost their income overnight, to drivers, transport operators, small and medium-sized businesses. we have one responsibility: we must reassess the multiannual financial framework and budget to start with the protection of citizens. this is how we show our solidarity. all other concepts and plans must be subordinated to it. and let us not ask the member states for additional money, let us find it in our own resources.
mr. chairman, please! today, all member states, our citizens, our families and businesses expect the european union to play an active role in tackling the social and economic crisis. we have a multi-year financial framework for very difficult times ahead of us. today, it is above all the flexibility of the use of european funds and the guarantee of new funds for the union. the multiannual financial framework is the foundation for stimulating the european economy and fighting the crisis, and it should be recalled that the european commission's economic forecast for today is a huge decline in the union's gdp of over 7%. entrepreneurs are struggling, many businesses are threatened with collapse and the european economy is at a standstill. companies are the driving force behind our development and the social security of our citizens. let's not forget that. let us not take away from cohesion policy the funds which are the basis and the essential element of our investment support. let us not take away the agricultural policy which ensures food self-sufficiency for the citizens of europe. today, the european economy is in dire need of an influx of new money. we must take the fight against tax fraud seriously, and strengthen tax cooperation between the eu countries to eliminate tax evasion and tax havens. new taxes can be a source of revenue: a digital tax on financial transactions, carbon footprint or production from third countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the people are the foundation of europe and they need our help now, not later. the answer to this crisis is therefore obvious: we need more courage, more solidarity and, above all, much more europe. let us be courageous and get the money for the necessary post-crisis reconstruction from those who have so far generously paid little or no tax: the big international corporations. let us act in a european manner and give special support to those member states which have suffered and are suffering particularly badly from this crisis. and that includes corona bonds. finally, let us show solidarity with the women. this is not a minority program. this is about half the population. domestic violence has increased dramatically, and the economic impact on women is particularly dramatic and visible. single parents in particular suffer greatly from the burden of running a household, perhaps teaching children on the side, and of course working - whether in front of a screen, or in the supermarket, or wherever they are employed. we need a women's fund, and we should also try to get one.
mr president, president von der leyen has expressed her goal to strengthen and unite europe, and yet i hear from rumours that military mobility, the flagship programme to strengthen and unite europe, has suffered severe cuts or even been thrown out of the multiannual financial framework (mff). that is not good. we must not compromise on our security. military mobility is the most practical cooperation programme between nato and the eu. we should not waste it. secondly, on the green deal. the green deal, as important as it is, is a very expensive programme. we need to make sure that the mff allocates sufficient resources in order to enable farmers and businesses to achieve these very difficult goals. if we don’t do so, then we will contribute to their downfall by adding more restrictions on them at a time when farmers are suffering the most.
mr president, there is a group of people in europe who embody the idea of the single market every single day: frontier workers. the pandemic has shown that they do not have sufficient legal protection, that for them the single market does not work well in difficult times. so when we talk about recovery, the question is: to what? my answer: to a truly functioning single market where people and goods really move in a free way. i saw the result of closed borders in silesia on the polish, german and czech borders. so many people there lost their jobs simply because member states acted selfishly. we need to handle the situation. the european recovery plan needs to regulate the rights of frontier workers. the eu economic integration model needs to be much deeper. we must make the european project a federal project. it is time now or never. europa braucht keine grenzen. evropa nepotřebuje žádné hranice. europa nie potrzebuje żadnych granic.
in writing. – the future mff has to offer europe a strong perspective for its recovery but also important commitments in terms of the type of economy and society we want to build for the future. the upcoming changes presumed to happen have been accelerated by the current covid—19 crisis, and we need more than ever to try to make europe a leading force of what will be the next technological revolutions. in this regard, we need an ambitious european budget and we need it now. we need the member states to allocate more in order to do more things together in everyone’s interest. we need also fresh and fair own resources at eu level that protect our standards but also generate new funds for our objectives. allocating eur 2 trillion for the recovery plan can be a strong starting point. we need to allocate grants to those that most need it in order to create jobs and ensure the protection of our social standards. but what we have to make sure is that all these opportunities will be available to all member states. the next budget can be a blueprint for the future we want to build. the new mff must change europe, or the eu may no more survive it.
in writing. the european union needs a robust economic recovery plan in response to the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic. the crisis has put a serious strain on the social and health care systems in the member states. it particularly affects the weaker social groups, which leads to greater inequality and to an increase in poverty and unemployment. eu gdp is forecast to decline by 7.4% in the coming months. i therefore agree that the reformed mff and the european recovery strategy should be based on the principles of economic cohesion, social dialogue and the transition towards a resilient, sustainable, socially just and competitive economy. it is important to me that the recovery instrument announced by the commission does not impose an additional burden on national budgets and that it supports immediate action. the support would take the form of grants, loans and financial guarantees. investments should be directed to where the needs are greatest and concentrated in the areas most affected by the crisis and the less prosperous. in the short term, the aim would be to ensure the continuity of the cohesion policy and to support the liquidity of smes, and in the long term to take into account the green deal and the digital strategy. i think it's a good proposal that will save jobs and rebuild tourism, infrastructure, agriculture, transportation, health care. i hope that as a result we will build an eu that is resilient to future crises.
mr. chairman, please! hungary, like my country, poland, has been the victim of extraordinary political attacks in the european parliament. any opportunity is good to attack hungary and poland. the pandemic doesn't change that. most countries are taking exceptional and necessary measures to fight covid-19, but hungary is under particular scrutiny, accusing them of attacking and undermining democracy with the legal solutions adopted to fight the pandemic, including countering the economic effects of the crisis. and yet the laws passed are in accordance with the constitution, the constitutional court is functioning, the parliament is functioning, which will decide on the date of lifting the state of emergency. national checks and balances are in place and the government has a strong electoral mandate, the envy of many member states. please explain why the hungarian government's position cannot be presented during this debate. we know that this request was made by the hungarian minister of justice.
mr president, mr orbán’s violations of human rights and freedoms are not a new thing. the eu has looked the other way for too long. what we see in hungary is alarming, yes, and action is urgent, but please do look beyond hungary. in spain, mr sánchez’ government is also using covid—19 to enact new authoritarian policies. the police are instructed to search for negative messages that may also be punished with five years of prison, exactly like in hungary. they are wiretapping without judicial controls and mr sánchez is still ignoring the advice of the united nations and amnesty international and political prisoners have not been released in spite of instructions by these bodies. double standards must end in the eu. both hungary and spain need to be accountable for their violations of article 2.
mr president, today, we need to deal with the situation in hungary again. why? while the pandemic overwhelms europe, on the one hand, we can see people losing their jobs, getting sick and dying, while at the same time, in the centre of europe, there are governments that take this opportunity to violate democracy and fundamental human rights. when viktor orbán’s ruling party restricts the rights of lgbti people or blocks the ratification of the convention on violence against women, we cannot turn a blind eye. refusing cries for dignity, a private life, to live free from discrimination and violence is refusing fundamental human rights and another backward step in democracy in hungary. this also sets a dangerous precedent for the future of the whole european union. equality among people and uniform guarantees of rights are among our key values. we can no longer tolerate the breaches of fundamental human rights, especially in our own backyard. the european union can no longer avoid the responsibility. we cannot say that these are not the eu’s competences. the commission’s measures are insufficient. it’s not enough to analyse, monitor, appeal. human rights are the competences of the european union. the commission must act here and now.
mr president, it’s a pity that mr orbán didn’t have the guts to appear here for our debate. he of course realises that it’s easier to silence his hungarian critics than members of the european parliament because, let’s face it, under the rules of mr orbán and his cronies, democracy has been killed in hungary. it’s dead. but the council keeps shamefully protecting him and talking about values and democracy, but they refuse to even put it on the agenda. i would also wish to be critical of my own government for once and wish that the dutch prime minister and minister of finance would be as critical of the destruction of the rule of law in the european union as they are of violating budget discipline. and i wonder why the epp continues to protect mr orbán. there are many good people in the epp, true democrats and defenders of the rule of law, but, as long as fidesz is a member of the epp, the epp is complicit in the destruction of democracy and the rule of law. kick him out. kick him out. don’t wait any longer. finally, killing democracy should not be funded with european taxpayers’ money. so not a penny more to mr orbán to line the pockets of his oligarchs. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! health, work and safety: these three areas are the most important in the life of every citizen. the rest may not be. especially in times of such a powerful threat as the coronavirus pandemic. history will judge us both. what is the european parliament discussing today? what do we do? that there are countries that want to fight and kill not democracy, mrs. in't veld, but the coronavirus. every country has the right to decide how to protect its citizens. hungary, poland, spain, italy had the right to do so. each in his own way, because each knows his society, his mechanisms, and also his constitution. the hungarians have acted in accordance with their constitution, in accordance with their democracy, and we must not interfere with their desire to protect their citizens from death. history will judge us, and it's worthwhile that we deal here and now with the economic crisis that will follow the pandemic, not... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. can we blame hungary for being one of the first countries in europe to take decisive steps in the fight against the coronavirus? as early as 10 april, the hungarian government began to introduce regulations aimed at limiting the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the national economy and labor market. for example, special economic zones, where investments of national economic importance are located, have been excluded from the management of local governments and placed under the administration of the state, with the tax paid being taken over. these decisions preceded the introduction on 30 march of decrees suspending certain legal acts, prohibiting the holding of by-elections and referendums, increasing the penalties for breaking the quarantine order or spreading false information about the pandemic. the hungarian government's actions have allowed production to resume in april by the largest manufacturing plants, including audi, mercedes, opel and suzuki. thanks to the government's quick and decisive action, not only has the economy's losses been reduced and the blackout stopped, but the number of infected people in hungary remains lower than in the czech republic or austria (five times lower). these figures show the correctness of the decisions taken by the government of viktor orbán, which is effectively protecting its country and its citizens from the raging pandemic.
in writing. as a hungarian representative and a hungarian patriot, i am extremely sad that once again the policy of the hungarian government is on the agenda. hungary deserves better than this. let's face it, this is real. the mzp launched the 'dictatorship monitor' application on its online platform, which tracks the excesses that fidesz is carrying out under the guise of protecting against the coronavirus. there are countless of them. in recent days, for example, the spread of fear has led to more arrests by the police for criticizing the government's handling of the epidemic on social media. fidesz's immorality is also evidenced by the way it uses the epidemic to take out opposition mayors: in recent days, a proposal was submitted referring to the emergency that takes tax revenues and driving licenses from the (opposition) municipalities selected by the government and gives them to the fidesz-led county municipalities. it is utterly shameful that the hungarian government is using even this epidemic situation for political revenge and booty-grabbing. now that we are deciding on the next seven-year budget, the question must be how to sanction an anti-eu government in a member state without any damage to the country or its citizens. i propose that we pay the eu funds to join the european public prosecutor's office. until orbán is willing to do so, he cannot decide on the distribution of european resources! the proposals will be judged by independent decision-makers in brussels. it cannot continue to feed its oligarchs and its stealth dictatorship with eu funds.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic puts all european societies in a situation where the risks of breach of the rule of law and democratic principles are higher than usual. societies that have already been swept under the rug by these principles are in danger of being dragged deeper and deeper into a cycle of authoritarianism. once you're in a spiral like this, once you're in it deep enough, it's very difficult to get back up. hungary is now very close to this frontier and its democracy is close to collapse. as regards hungary, my concern is not just with the exceptional legislation but with the longer-term development of the country. in hungary, the orbán government has systematically restricted the freedom of movement of the media, civil society and science, and has concentrated power in a way that is not in line with the rules of a democratic society. the situation in hungary has been brought to europe far too late. the hungarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the hungarian authorities have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the rule of law is respected in the country. it's not taken seriously until the damage has already been done. it is clear that at the latest now all the measures that have been considered too onerous in the past must be fully implemented. the article 7 procedure must be accelerated and hungary must be put in a situation where its voting rights in the council are threatened. more importantly, the eu's financial resources will be cut off. they are the life thread of viktor orbán, with which he builds his own centrally controlled capitalism, where the winners are the powerful and their inner circle.
in writing. it is really incomprehensible why during the pandemic we are dealing with the rule of law in hungary, and specifically with the alleged violation of it by the extraordinary measures introduced, as in many other member states, to effectively fight the pandemic. moreover, the form in which this debate is conducted does not allow the hungarian government to present arguments in its defence. this is contrary to the principle of due process, which is also a fundamental principle of the rule of law. if the president of the ep had allowed the representative of the hungarian government to speak, we would have learned that the state of emergency law does not give the government unlimited powers. they will end with the end of the pandemic, or even earlier, if parliament so decides. the european commission is aware of this and therefore does not initiate infringement proceedings against a member state. today's debate is further proof of the double standards in the eu.
i have the honour to introduce the following item on the agenda, namely the statements by the council and the commission on the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration (2020/2642 (rsp)). as you all know, the traditional 'catch the eye' or 'blue card' procedures are not foreseen for this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration in truly unprecedented and challenging circumstances. today, we are faced with heart—breaking numbers: more than 100 000 people have died in the european union. let me from the outset express my sympathy with those who have lost their loved ones and my gratitude to the essential workers in hospitals and care homes, but also in shops, transportation and public services. moreover, millions of citizens have faced unprecedented restrictions aimed at containing the spread of the virus. the pandemic is putting our societies under serious strain. but the crisis has shown that, with the right synergy and close cooperation between member states and eu institutions in the spirit of the schuman declaration, we can provide efficient and effective solutions. the commission and the ecb took exceptional steps. the parliament and the council adopted, without delay, emergency packages of legislation. the european council has given overall direction. i will not go into details on the eu response. let me just say that work continues with a sense of urgency and a determination. as prime minister plenković said on saturday, from the start of our presidency, we have been dealing with complex and important issues for the future of europe: from ensuring an orderly brexit and agreeing on a mandate for negotiation with the united kingdom to negotiation of the multiannual financial framework (mff) package, discussions about the green deal and with a strong emphasis on enlargement policy and our strategic relations with the western balkans. the negotiations on the mff for the period 2021—2027 will now intensify with a new approach in the changed circumstances. of course, the covid—19 pandemic poses an unprecedented and unexpected challenge for all of us, as well as unprecedented administrative and logistical challenges for our presidency. we’ve had to react quickly and find solutions to be able to ensure continuity of decision—making and make sure that the union can act. within the council, we have ensured effective discussions and rapid agreements on a number of european regulations and guidelines for more flexible use of european funds, easier procurement and production of medical equipment, and assuring the flow of goods across borders as well as the transport corridors. in addition, we have facilitated the repatriation of all european citizens from third countries, enabled coordinated monitoring of the development of the epidemiological situation and facilitated the decisions on reducing restrictions at a national level, which should also lead to a revival of tourism and business activities. our response to the crisis is comprehensive and strong in order to preserve jobs, entrepreneurship and ensure a rapid and effective recovery while strengthening the solidarity and resilience of all member states and our neighbours. furthermore, i would like to highlight our work on enlargement; first with the new methodology, then with the council decision to open negotiations with albania and north macedonia. i would also like to highlight the recent eu—western balkans zagreb summit and the adoption of the zagreb declaration, which reaffirms and consolidates a clear european perspective and future of our western balkan partners. it is a situation where the european union is facing the greatest challenges since the world war 2. the conference on the future of europe can serve as an important framework for reflection, open debate and a vision of our common european future in a dialogue between all member states, european institutions and with full involvement of our citizens and other stakeholders. the presidency will spare no efforts in working to reach a consensus in the council as soon as possible and in securing an agreement with the other european institutions on the timing and manner of launching this conference, which is important for the long—term future of europe. ‘world peace cannot be safeguarded without the making of creative efforts proportionate to the dangers which threaten it’, said robert schuman in the opening words of his declaration 70 years ago. today, the context is obviously different, but the dangers are no less real and deserve creative efforts proportionate to them. the motto of the croatian presidency: ‘a strong europe in a world of challenges’ applies today even more than on the first day of our presidency. i have travelled from zagreb to this plenary for almost 10 hours to underline our presidency’s determination to continue working closely with the european parliament. indeed, it is my firm belief and we remain united in solidarity, we can emerge from this crisis together.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, 75 years ago, the guns of the second world war in europe fell silent. the nazi regime was defeated, but europe lay in ruins. just five years later, on 9 may 1950, robert schuman made a declaration that would profoundly change this continent and would put it on a path that no one could have anticipated. for me, this is a very special moment. seventy years ago, robert schuman started a journey, step by step. he showed us the way and the direction. and today, here we are. just seven days ago, at the eu—western balkans summit, we laid the ground for reuniting the western balkans with our union, reuniting europe’s history with its geography. yes, today, our union faces its greatest challenge yet: a pandemic that knows no borders, a pandemic that threatens our lives and our way of life, a pandemic that has tested our union to its core. but, as so often in history, this crisis has also shown europe’s greatest strengths: our commitment to unity, born of common values and shared history, and our solidarity with those in need. schuman’s words resonate today more strongly than ever before: ‘it is no longer a time for vain words, but for a bold, constructive act’. the schuman declaration embodied the perfect balance, the delicate dance between idealism and pragmatism, without which there would be no european union and no european solidarity as we know it today. he famously said, ‘europe will not be made all at once according to a single plan. it will be built through concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity.’ this crisis has put that solidarity to the hardest of tests. in march, some even said that we would not pass these tests. but, if you look around the world today, europe has become the beating heart of solidarity: french patients treated in german hospitals, polish doctors and romanian nurses working in italy, and a huge recovery plan is in the making. the world is watching. our european model will only mean something to the world if we show solidarity within our union’s borders, to each other, and beyond, with our partners globally. since the pandemic began, the european union has been working on all fronts to contain the spread of the coronavirus, support health systems, protect and save lives, and counter the socioeconomic impacts of the pandemic, with historically unprecedented measures at both national and eu level. the commission will directly support the healthcare systems of eu countries with eur 3 billion from the eu budget, matched with eur 3 billion from the member states to fund the emergency support instrument and the resceu common stockpile of equipment. the resceu initiative helps secure vital equipment, from ventilators to personal protective equipment, and to mobilise medical teams for assistance to the most vulnerable, including in refugee camps. the first hosting state of this stockpile is romania. the production of the first ventilators has started, and some 330 000 protective masks were delivered to spain, italy and croatia in the past weeks. since the beginning of the outbreak, thanks to the eu civil protection mechanism and consular protection coordination, the european union has brought home over half a million citizens stranded all over the world. thanks to the emergency support instrument, the european union has procured another 10 million masks, the first 1.5 million of which have already been delivered to 17 member states. i want to thank this house for having launched the ‘europeans against covid—19’ campaign. this europe day, the commission and the council joined forces with you, and we all pay tribute to those who are making history today, the everyday heroes fighting the coronavirus in our hospitals, in research labs, or by delivering personal protective equipment to those in need, because we know that coronavirus knows no borders. tackling this pandemic is a global challenge and the eu is leading the global effort to develop and deploy effective diagnostics, treatments and a vaccine. without this tool, every country in the world remains vulnerable. countries and international organisations are joining forces to develop these tools and put the structures in place that ensure they are universally available and affordable. how wealthy a country is should not determine whether its people get to live without this virus. that is why president von der leyen launched an international pledging marathon on 4 may. so far, we have raised eur 7.4 billion, and this includes a pledge of eur 1.4 billion from the commission. but we know that more is needed and i am confident it will come. the crisis gives us an opportunity to lead by example and to reach for our highest aspirations, even when, in the short term, it might be easier to give in to our lowest instincts. we will be remembered tomorrow for how we act today. therefore, this crisis forces us to reflect. the pandemic will have a lasting effect, not just on the global system, but also on our daily lives. it is vital that on our path to recovery, we reach out, engage and listen to citizens, at european, national, regional and local level. the conference on the future of europe is an ideal forum for that and should commence as soon as conditions allow it. the conference, as a pan—european democratic exercise, can reinforce the link between european citizens and the institutions. it can help rebuild trust and solidarity, even in the new coronavirus reality. the context might have changed, but our determination has not. we want the conference on the future of europe to give citizens a greater say in shaping future eu policies, and we want this to be a joint exercise, involving the european parliament, the council and the commission on an equal footing. that is also why any decision on when to launch the conference must be a joint one taken by all three institutions. given the circumstances, my colleague and friend, vice—president šuica, who is leading the commission’s efforts on the conference, is following this debate remotely from croatia. she is very much looking forward to joining the debates in this house in a physical mode as soon as possible. in order to be ready for the launch of the conference under the containment measures scenario, the commission is exploring digital solutions to enable us to host virtual debates and dialogues. we are working on a multilingual digital platform, allowing citizens to share their results and promote interactive ways for public engagement as part of the conference. such a digital platform would be open to all eu institutions. but a digital solution alone cannot reach everyone and cannot compensate for the real deal: face—to—face town hall discussions and workshops across the continent, reaching people from all walks of life. to protect the health of our citizens, we need to be patient and plan accordingly, step by step. once the council has adopted its mandate, we will get there. i am confident that the next step, the joint declaration by the parliament, the commission and the council, which is necessary to launch the conference, is within reach. a little more than 30 years ago, i was looking through the barbed wire of the infamous iron curtain to austria. this fence was just two kilometres from our apartment and i passed it every single day. i could see the people, the houses and the lights on the other side of the danube, but i was told by my father that i would never be able to cross the border. therefore, for me, the schuman declaration celebration is also a celebration of the european dream and freedom. i am sure that robert schuman would be proud today of how much we have accomplished. but i am also convinced that he would push us higher and further. therefore, let’s respond to his inspiration by building an even fairer, greener, freer and stronger europe. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the european union is the political legacy of our fathers' generation. our parents understood that either europe was built or dictatorship and war would return. europe or war. the idea is so simple that robert schuman only needed 868 words to explain it. and it is worth remembering today because, as it was a hundred years ago, nationalism has again taken root in the hearts of europeans. nationalism is the coronavirus that infects our politics. it is nationalistic to give 27 different national responses to a single pandemic. it is nationalistic not to standardize the criteria by which infected, dead or cured are counted to have a better national position in the ranking of countries. it's nationalistic to close borders without coordination. it is nationalist to show solidarity with masks, medicines, hospital beds or financial aid. it is nationalist to go to the european council with the intention of taking the most money by putting in the least possible. it's nationalistic to value national successes by how much i get for my country and not by how much we get for all countries together. it is nationalist that no prime minister is looking at the european economy as a whole for the recovery plan. is there no longer any europeanist leaders in europe? let us stop facing north and south and east and west just to get votes in our respective countries. if we sow weeds among europeans, we will reap discord among europeans. to be a europeanist is to explain north and south, east and west. europeans understand each other, we do not fight. let us put aside our national egos, our filiations and our phobias. let's drop the "i" and the "me" and think about the "we" and the "our". history has shown that we can move forward together without giving up our national identities. in the face of the selfish discourse of nationalism, we defend the generosity of european patriotism and the value of peace.
on behalf of the s&d group. before taking the floor on this point, mr president, i should like to reply to mr gunnar beck, who said that the members who were not here were on holiday. mr. beck, make no mistake about it. i think i speak for all of them: if they are not here, it is not on a whim. they are saving lives, they are following the rules that are set by the various national governments. i understand that the far right is not very used to this, but the members who are not here are doing so in a responsible way, because they are aware that this virus must be stopped by everyone. this 9 may marks the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration. with this declaration and from the ashes of the second world war, the path of peace, freedom and solidarity of the european union as we know it today began. in these seventy years europe has given its citizens peace and prosperity and has grown to twenty-seven countries. despite the pitfalls that have appeared on this journey, the union has always emerged stronger, and today we can proudly claim our motto of 'united in diversity'. in building the common european project, the socialists and democrats are proud of our contribution to making the union more than just a common market. it was with jacques delors in 1989 that the social dimension was introduced with the adoption of the charter of fundamental social rights of workers, and it has been our aim ever since to build a community and not just a market. and it will remain so. unfortunately, this year we celebrate a different 9 may, with mourning for those who have died in this crisis and coming out of our lockdowns to a future full of uncertainties. as the chairman of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, but also as a european citizen, i am convinced that we will emerge stronger from this crisis. on this anniversary, our political family wants to demand a courageous way out of this crisis, and we really need the unity of all european democrats. the union had already proposed a european conference before the crisis to help us to reassess its future, and now we must also include recovery. let it be the conference for the recovery and the future of europe, because it will be visible. and it will be important that this discussion sets political priorities by listening to citizens, to civil society; that this conference does not remain exclusively in the brussels bubble, that we can open up and listen to those who have things to say to us. the european project has always been a project for the future and has not succumbed to pessimism. as jean monnet said, every crisis is an opportunity to take a step forward. on this 70th anniversary, let us turn this crisis into an opportunity - with the memory of those who are no longer here - to renew the european union by making it stronger, fairer and more united.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, everyone is applauding the visionary genius of the fathers of europe, the schumans, the monnets, the adenauers, the spinellis. at the risk of disappointing you, i'd rather applaud their intelligence and pragmatism. they understood at the time that we would not succeed in rebuilding the europe we needed without enshrining it in cooperation, peace, democracy and solidarity. without solidarity between peoples and between states, they said, there would be no sustainable future for europe. so, seventy years later, where are we? we are not starting from nothing, we have managed to build an extremely powerful economy, a market, a free movement of people and goods. we have succeeded in establishing democracy and integrating the countries on the other side of the wall. this is a breakthrough that we cannot deny. but that's not enough, that's not enough anymore. we need to become a great political power. we need to consolidate our democracy. for that we need - as you said, mr šefčovič - of course we need this conference to be a success for the future of europe. we need to move our democracy with the citizens. we also need to get rid of the stupid unanimity rule that blocks all evolution. we need to speak with one voice. we need models that go beyond the interests of individual member states to serve the general european interest. yes, we must rise to the challenges of the 21st century, define the new rules of a community based on cooperation, on trade and new rules, on fair trade, on peace, the environment and the social. i must say that without this capacity to build, without this capacity to cooperate, without getting out of this fiscal competition which enriches some and impoverishes others, we will not succeed. i would just like to end by quoting a french poet. jacques prévert said that you can tell happiness by the sound it makes when it leaves you. i express the hope today that we will not have to hear the sound of democracy, peace and justice leaving us tomorrow.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not today we are discussing the schuman plan, which is celebrating its 70th anniversary. this plan laid the foundation for what we now call the european union. it was a good plan with historical implications. it marked the beginning of franco-german reconciliation, the beginning of the european peace project that still exists today. he envisioned peace and prosperity through economic cooperation. it was smart, and it worked until today. over the decades, this was expanded to become the eu's single market. so far, so good, so successful. i'm not going to lie. the abolition of national sovereignty was not envisaged at that time. the dissolution of france, germany and other states into a united states of europe was not foreseen. that would not have been wise, and it is not today. nevertheless, armies of politicians are pursuing this project in this house, producing the exact opposite of what schuman intended: divergence instead of convergence, aggression instead of peacefulness, disintegration instead of cooperation. they just don't understand the chaos they're creating because they want so much more than the schuman plan provided for in the wise limitation of economic cooperation, we'll end up losing everything. this is a historic tragedy for the nations of europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the success of the schuman declaration is certainly undoubtable. lasting peace on a warring continent is a paramount achievement. but still, our union has come even further, has been even more successful by working together. we expanded to overcome big parts of the iron curtain division and integrated in an ever closer union to the benefit of the people living within. crises, like the one we are crossing today, prove how much we have come to take for granted all the achievements of our union. just think about the freedom of movement. however, it is hardly the time to pat ourselves on the back. the world today is very different from that of schuman. we have digitalisation, globalisation, a growing nationalism, climate change. all those have fundamentally affected our realities, and the covid-19 crisis today leaves millions without jobs, a stable income or future perspectives. today, our union needs an immense leap forward. europe needs again a schuman-type future-proof solution oriented action. so what can this leap forward be? first of all, it should be a people and planet centred recovery from the multiple crises that europe is currently facing – the social inequalities, the climate and biodiversity crises, the public health crisis. it is high time we used all the instruments at our disposal to create the most ambitious social, economic and environmental transformation the world has ever seen, and this must ensure that no one is left behind. secondly, this leap forward must re-anchor our european union in the respect of citizens’ rights, democracy and fundamental rights, because these have too often been sidelined in recent years. thirdly, a strong and future-proofed union must also look beyond its immediate borders. our union must always offer shelter to those seeking protection. it must be open to countries that want to join and meet our rules. we are living through challenging times for our union. we must now prove that we can live up to those challenges. seventy years from now, history will judge whether we have passed the test.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. which way are we going? there are actually two sides. on the one hand, there is the creation of a kind of eu state, which the majority of this parliament supports, with a european government, european taxes, a european army and european debts. the great advocate of this idea is mr verhofstadt, who is unfortunately not here today, but we found a book of his from a long time ago, certainly ten years ago, in which he advocates a european empire. he talks about a "new age of empires". you have a russian empire, a chinese empire, an american empire, and now you have to add a european empire, a european empire. well, we, the european conservatives and reformists, want to go in a different direction, namely a community of sovereign european states, with a common market for trade and industry for example. no centralization like we have now, no bureaucracy. we want flexibility and we want each country to decide for itself which currency it wants. we also want respect for the constitutions of the various countries and a modest budget for emergency aid. that's why i'm saying in my last few seconds of speaking time: let the citizens decide what they want. let them decide that in a referendum. what do they want? the european empire of mr verhofstadt or our community of european states?
mr president, 70 years ago in paris, robert schuman gave the start to the construction of a united europe based on concrete achievements in mutual solidarity. and there were concrete achievements. we had the opportunity to cross the border and work, live, do business. freedoms which we took for granted a few months ago, but which are suddenly under pressure today. borders were being closed across europe. in my own village, the passage between the netherlands and belgium is suddenly blocked by meter-high fences and containers. it is unnecessary and it undermines the very basis of our cooperation and thus our prosperity. we need more coordination, especially at this stage. it is inconceivable that we can develop effective exit strategies if we do not work more intensively with each other. so , what do you say ? i'm not going to let you see me blindfolded, looking across borders. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his report. for example, an entrepreneur who has a business in the netherlands but lives in belgium or germany does not receive support from any country. they've been paying taxes and social security contributions for years, but when it comes down to it, they have nowhere to go. these people feel abandoned. they wonder where that one europe has gone. i can imagine that feeling. the 9th of may should be a european holiday, but as long as there are containers at the border and border traders falling between ship and shore, there is not much to celebrate. if robert schuman were alive today, i think he would have shed a tear earlier.
mr. chairman, one of the main advantages of founding fathers is that they usually never contradict each other. so schuman is again being dragged into this parliament today to promote the expansion of the centralized unitary state. however, the covid-19 crisis is a historic moment, because it has become the momentum of the member state itself. the member state is the only forum with sufficient democracy. only democracy and trust can enable us to entrust vital matters such as the management of our national borders, health care and social security based on voluntary solidarity. if you, ladies and gentlemen, see the future of europe as nothing more than an ever closer union, as texts on this subject are already being prepared at the conference, you are missing the point. europe can never be or should never be that. european cooperation will have to respect diversity. otherwise, i predict, you will cause your union to burst.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration, we are at the same time facing one of the most serious crises the union has ever experienced. at a very high price, it is now also becoming clear that the eu is a project which is paralysed in the face of every crisis and is unable to react quickly and in solidarity. from the outset, the eu project has been about building political and economic union. it is now clear, however, that the union has grown into a giant colossus on clay feet, sucking more and more power from the member states. it's time to reform this project to what it should be. it should be cooperation to promote trade and thus also in an extension of peace. a 70-year-old tax return needs to be updated. it needs to be updated to the present and it needs to be updated to the world that we see ahead of us now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. which half of the last century would you have preferred to live in, the first half or the second half? i am glad that i was born and grew up in the second half of the last century, in a time of hope and not of hatred and destruction. i think that the political spirit of robert schuman and the politicians of his time have a very important part to play in this, my happiness. but i also want my children, who were born in the first half of this century, and myself and my generation, to continue to share in this happiness and to continue to enjoy it. our sailing ship, the european union, has arrived at a crucial buoy. we can sail on to prosperity and to the future. but then we need a route, we need a vision, and we need the belief that we can shape the future together. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. i believe we need courage. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. every crisis - and we are in one of them, no doubt - is also an opportunity, also a political opportunity. people expect us to give concrete answers in these difficult days and weeks of the corona crisis. and with time, with the spirit of robert schuman and his political contemporaries, we can give that answer. 70 years of the schuman declaration is therefore a cause for celebration, but also a cause for reflection on how we deal with the legacy of these politicians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 70 years have not been enough to build europe. take the coronavirus emergency: what has happened to the much-vaunted european solidarity? first you treat italians like plague, then you pretend to apologize and now, when it's time to get the money, what do you do? you 're trying to steal that money from us by borrowing it and using the esm: and you call this solidarity? don't you have any shame? the italians need real money, like the billions our country pays every year to this europe enslaved by banks and corporations. we do not want your charity, we want our money back, all of it, now, because we have to save the lives of millions of italians and the lives of millions of businesses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have betrayed the european dream, you are killing europe because, if you have not yet understood it, this europe is either changing now or it is destined to die.
mr. chairman, please! i'm glad to see so many members of congress in this room. the minister representing the croatian presidency said she had driven almost 10 hours to get here. i was driving almost 12 just to tell this session about the great man robert schuman, who, together with alcide de gasperi and other founding fathers of europe, decided to create a structure that would be a barrier to the two totalitarianisms of the 20th century, communism on the one hand, and national socialism in germany on the other. i think he deserves a lot of credit. we should remember that he envisioned a common europe as an economic structure, but he also referred to its christian roots, heritage and tradition. we should remember this and not amputate this heritage which is part of our european history.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the schuman declaration, which launched european integration, is still striking for its ambition and pragmatism. the same ambition and pragmatism, mr vice-president, we must have today: we can't lose ourselves in endless arguments. it is all very well to have the conference on the future of europe back on track as soon as possible, but it must not be a platform for idle chatter, it must be a means to an end. we must be proud of our history and of the many goals we have achieved, and we must put our union back on track to overcome the delays, the mistakes and the inadequacies of the union as it is today. this means no more cross-border vetoes by the member states, no more exhausting budgetary negotiations, and finally more own resources for the union through a web tax and a tax on speculative financial transactions. we have had enough of being too timid in the face of violations of the rule of law and social rights. i hope that this parliament can be united in fighting for these objectives, because i believe that what we need today is a european federation. if not now, when?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for this very important debate. your statements have been very clear. on one side, most of us acknowledge that we have accomplished a lot together since the schuman declaration and there is a lot of which we are rightly so proud of. but, at the same time, you called for more solidarity, more action and, what i would call, result—oriented policies from our union, which, as ms keller has said, must be more planet- and people-centred. all of you called for the big debate with our european citizens under the conference on the future of europe to take place as soon as possible. because at a time like this we all feel that we need to listen more to the people – i would say even more than before – to include them in our decision-making and then, of course, to draw lessons about how we can fulfil their proposals, wishes and dreams in the best possible way. i think we have to remind ourselves that, when robert schuman made his declaration for this bold and constructive action in 1950, his words did not fall on deaf ears. there was immediate follow-up. less than one year later, the founding six countries would go on to sign the treaty of paris, establishing what would later become the european union. this is how they materialised his call for peace in europe and for legal protection against the different views of those who were more powerful at that moment, as ms beer has just reminded us. it was done in a big rush and what is often overlooked is the fact that, with the negotiations being done so quickly, the piece of paper that ministers signed was, in fact, left blank. i like this because it is both a symbol of europe’s unwritten potential and that of integration being quite difficult and uncertain, but also the trust among those who were signing this blank sheet of paper that what they were doing together would be good for the future. they trusted each other because they wanted the best for our people and for our countries. many of you referred to robert schuman’s famous statement that we would not build a common europe, this important common project, all at once and in one go, but through consecutive victories on a long and hard path, and that this would be the moment when we would forge european solidarity. i think that, if the founding fathers were with us today, on one side they would be very much impressed at how we have filled that piece of paper with successes. but i am confident that they would also have a lot of inspiration about how to proceed further. i think that very soon they would realise, as mr gonzález pons has pointed out, that it should be absolutely normal and natural to be a strong patriot and a strong european at the same time. we just want the best for our people, the best for our country and the best for our europe. sometimes i’m puzzled by how much proof we need to realise that, even in such a crisis as this, we do not have a single european country that can do a better job than if we do it all together as europeans. ms garcía pérez, mr durand and mr benifei have underlined the importance of making the debate on the conference on the future of europe as relevant as possible. i would like to thank you very much for the proposals which i heard that we should include the topics of recovery and the renewed need for solidarity, and that we should debate honestly about all subjects which matter to our citizens, even such pertinent questions as fair taxation and how we can improve our common fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which was put mr durand and ms aubry. i agree with ms garcía pérez that the holidays look very different from what we are going through this spring. i think that we should thank all those who are working very hard, including you, honourable members of the european parliament, because, without your quick action, we wouldn’t have been able to adopt so many measures, which i believe saved many lives and will save millions of jobs. so now i think that the major lessons learned from the schuman declaration in our debate today are that we need to focus on immediate steps. we have to have an ambitious multiannual financial perspective. we have to have a recovery fund with strong firepower. we need to tackle the crisis, relaunch the economy and give a new boost to our european project through this intimate and in-depth debate with our citizens. i believe that this would be something that robert schuman would suggest to us and i think that this will be the best way to respect his legacy. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, seventy years after the schuman declaration is a good moment to reflect about europe, the challenges that face us and how we can continue to make sure the union is effective in addressing them and delivering solutions. as i said, in these challenging circumstances, the presidency will do its utmost to steer our work in preparing and reaching the decision needed to address the covid-19 crisis, as well as the impact on so many aspects of our lives. active and effective cooperation between our institutions will be crucial in that regard. in all these very difficult circumstances, as you know, my capital city, zagreb, was hit by a strong earthquake on 22 march, leaving many of our citizens homeless and further traumatised on top of the covid-19 pandemic. i thank everyone warmly for all the help and support we received. i hope that we will all learn from the experience of this crisis and work towards making europe more resilient to similar or any other potential future crises, especially in protecting our supply chains, diversifying and bringing back to europe end production of essential strategic goods and food in order to ensure europe’s self-sustainability. regarding the conference of the future of europe that indeed we planned launching on 9 may. as you will understand, in the last period, our work in the council had focussed on the immediate priority of the response to the pandemic. however, we are determined to come back to it – first to reach a consensus on a council position and then by negotiating among our institutions. a new target date for a launch of the conference should be agreed, and recent developments certainly need to be taken into consideration. to that effect, the presidency had the first exchange with member states already this week.
thank you very much. we are therefore closing the debate on the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the eu, we are facing the most difficult situation since 1950. the coronavirus pandemic leaves us with thousands of deaths and an economic depression unlike any since 1929, adding to the challenges we've faced in the last decade: climate change, aggressive geopolitics, migration crises, digital challenge, brexit and the election of trump in the us, among others. in these seven decades, europe has experienced the longest period of peace and prosperity, with the world's largest and most integrated internal market, the euro and a series of collective investment policies that have guaranteed political freedom, economic progress and social well-being. on 9 may 1950, robert schuman said that europe 'would not be made all at once, but by creating de facto solidarities' but he also said that the ecsc was the first stage 'for a european federation', a historic mission which we must complete. europe must therefore equip itself with new instruments to address the three crises we are experiencing at the moment: public health, economic and political crises that we can only address through a european health, financial and political union.
in writing. we are in the middle of another session of the european parliament, which is taking place in brussels rather than strasbourg, with a dozen or so rather than a few hundred members in the plenary. we vote by mail, in the offices, not in the plenary. why would you do that? because this is no ordinary time and these are no ordinary circumstances. this is why specific countermeasures are needed not only in brussels but also across europe and the world. and that's the kind of measures and actions that the government in budapest has taken. unfortunately, this debate shows how far the european institutions can be removed from reality. but the institutions can be consistent: every opportunity to strike at the hungarian government is used. all possible and impossible ways of establishing the existence of a clear risk of a serious breach by a member state of the values referred to in article 2 [of the treaty on the functioning of the european union] shall be sought. i call on the european parliament, the council and especially the european commission to focus at this particular time on cooperation and cooperation in the fight against the epidemic itself and its effects (since we have failed to prepare properly or even better for this situation), rather than returning with a particular fondness to seeking out threats to democracy in a hungarian state that is fighting for its citizens.
in writing. the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration, the first step in the construction of europe, comes at a most difficult time for europe since the end of the second world war, but one in which the full significance of the declaration and the ideal of 'ever closer union' which it embodies are even more apparent. the unprecedented health, economic and social crisis that the covid-19 pandemic has generated demonstrates how timely the awareness contained in the declaration is that europe must emerge "from concrete achievements that first create de facto solidarity", and that only "an organised and vital europe" can truly contribute, in addition to "civilization" and "maintaining peaceful relations", to the protection of its citizens and the promotion of the values of freedom, equality, justice, legality, protection of fundamental rights and respect for the rule of law. the need for solidarity, coordination and joint action, underlying the declaration, has never been more evident: in particular, in the immediate as well as in the medium and long term, european solidarity is and will be essential if no one is to be left behind. it is therefore essential to strengthen european institutions and policies, their effectiveness and their democratic character: only by persevering in the spirit of the declaration will the union be able to meet the difficult challenges of the present historic moment.
in writing. on the 70th anniversary of the declaration by the french christian democrat foreign minister robert schuman, the european union is recovering his legacy, the intellectual and moral capital that has fuelled the unprecedented success of integration over decades. the solution to our urgent tasks, the search for a common european path for the 21st century, is being used by the mainstream of left-liberal politics as a platform for party politics, extending the eu institutions far beyond their original function, namely european legislation. we can clearly see that this elite is compromising the legacy of robert schuman before our very eyes. in fact, this tradition is simply being denied by certain political groups. while they talk about unprecedented cooperation, they're closing in on anyone who isn't on their side, especially non-leftist governments. it's a long process, and it's showing increasingly extreme examples. it is part of this renewed attack on my country, which we witnessed in the plenary debate this morning - within the usual conceptual framework. the other side's continuous, though baseless, targeting is a mockery of schuman's legacy, but they don't care about any of that. the european parliament is now a part of this game, a facilitator. our most important task is to find a way to change that. i believe that the legacy of robert schuman is this: not to let go. his legacy remains the key to overcoming our current crisis and preserving european unity.
in writing. 70 years ago, robert schuman made the declaration that became the foundation of the european union as we know it today. this action marked the beginning of an extraordinary political project that has brought 70 years of peace and prosperity. i am proud that over the years we have succeeded in creating an economic and political community based on christian roots and european values such as solidarity, freedom, tolerance, equality in diversity and respect for the rule of law. i regret that the celebration of such an important anniversary comes at a time when the european union is facing one of the most difficult challenges in its history: the health, economic and social crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic. but each crisis is a learning experience and can be a great opportunity for growth, as it reveals our weaknesses and shortcomings. let's use this. i'm sure the founding fathers of the european union would be surprised at how far their project has come. on the other hand, the 70th anniversary of the european community may be a good moment to pause and reflect on the direction we are taking, to recall the principle of subsidiarity, european solidarity and the equality of all member states. it seems that these values are too often forgotten in brussels and especially in the european parliament.
in writing. today we know that european integration is a complex process. it will be built with the achievements that create a sense of solidarity and trust. the trust that is the foundation of a new, functioning and united europe. 70 years after the schuman declaration, and thanks to the efforts of visionaries and generations of europeans, peace and prosperity are today the fundamental ideals of our common continent. the dream of millions of citizens has been realized, but we also realize that differences are wealth. from countries torn apart and ravaged by devastating wars, europe today sets the world's standards for democracy, human rights and freedoms and the rule of law. in those 70 years, europe has faced many crossroads. the cross of hard choices and hope. today, europe faces a similar choice. we need courage, ambition and solidarity to shape the future. only then will we be able to meet the expectations of our citizens, but i believe that together we will be able to build a europe for all europeans!
in writing. on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the eu, we are facing the most difficult situation since 1950. the coronavirus pandemic leaves us with thousands of deaths and an economic depression unlike any since 1929, adding to the challenges we've faced in the last decade: climate change, aggressive geopolitics, migration crises, digital challenge, brexit and the election of trump in the us, among others. in these seven decades, europe has experienced the longest period of peace and prosperity, with the world's largest and most integrated internal market, the euro and a series of collective investment policies that have guaranteed political freedom, economic progress and social well-being. on 9 may 1950, robert schuman said that europe 'would not be made all at once, but by creating de facto solidarities' but he also said that the ecsc was the first stage 'for a european federation', a historic mission which we must complete. europe must therefore equip itself with new instruments to address the three crises we are experiencing at the moment: public health, economic and political crises that we can only address through a european health, financial and political union.
in writing. the schuman declaration is the cornerstone of the european communities and the union today. on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of its signature, it is worth recalling that the declaration, also known as the schuman plan, was not only about the coordination of coal and steel production in the ecsc countries, but above all about the idea of creating a european federation based on common values derived from greek philosophy, roman law and christian humanism. this overarching objective of the schuman declaration was transposed in 1957 into the treaty of rome and is still codified there as a process of creating an ever closer union between the peoples of europe. we are at a very special moment of integration. on the one hand, we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the signing of the schuman declaration and the 10th anniversary of the treaty of lisbon, and on the other, we are experiencing an unprecedented pandemic crisis with multi-dimensional health, economic and institutional implications. the european union and its member states should seize this moment to step up and emerge from this crisis stronger. not only by building on the pro-integration mechanisms of the lisbon treaty (bridge clauses), but also by developing more far-reaching proposals, such as strengthening the european parliament's position, introducing a general principle of qualified majority voting in the council and constitutionalising the european pillar of social rights. the conference on the future of europe will certainly be a great opportunity to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the fight against the coronavirus pandemic can take many forms. on the one hand, there are the medical professionals who risk their health and lives on the front lines of the fight against an invisible enemy, and on the other, technological advances are making it possible to develop solutions that will limit the spread of disease. we agree with the methods proposed by the commission, they can help us, but it is not yet clear how this tool will work. the protection of users' privacy should be a priority for the commission and sensitive information should be stored in accordance with the applicable rules on the protection of personal data. we need to work together and use the potential of member states that have experience in developing similar applications, such as poland, where we have an application to monitor people in quarantine, and recently the protego application, which informs about the potential risk of coronavirus infection. we need to use new technologies to fight the coronavirus. however, it should be borne in mind that these solutions must be adapted to the circumstances of each member state in order to effectively protect its citizens.
mr president, covid-19 is also testing us digitally. health systems can look after their citizens without geolocation and undue control of their privacy. with or without covid—19, governments do not need to know where citizens are at all times. there are technologies aligned with these principles and it is not acceptable that eu governments use invasive software. we do not need to go to china to see alarming practices. spain is routinely censoring websites and apps. github has been pressured by the spanish government to censor codes, and the government of pedro sánchez recently hinted at plans to use an app that would track citizens to see if they change regions. this is happening within the eu and should not be tolerated. europe must lead by example, safeguarding civil rights and individual freedom, including in the digital world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we as european union countries have identified the problematic point among the many challenges we are facing: the problem is, once again, a united position in which the member states show that they are aware of the community dimension. we also moved into this set of applications with a certain awkward and partial ability to share. we have two problems: the first is identifying the right technology, you were very clear, technology that is compatible with privacy. the second is to identify a common model for dealing with these problems, because application is not enough to solve the problem: it is an integration of what we have been able to share as a tool for protecting people in health and social terms.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it was appropriate that we had the opportunity to discuss this issue again here in the plenary. and this debate clearly demonstrates the central role that joint work between institutions can play during this crisis. i would first like to stress that the extraordinary measures we have to take to combat the pandemic must not compromise the foundation of our european project, our values and fundamental rights. the use of an app is never, as mr schwab or mrs sippel have pointed out, just a complementary element to a whole series of others: hygiene rules, social distancing rules or tests to be carried out in large numbers. all these elements form part of a whole. i would like to emphasize a very specific element which has been mentioned several times: interoperability. if we want an effective community project, we need real interoperability, regardless of the number of applications in the states or regions. that is what we are working on with the different states. i believe that it is better to allow different applications to develop than to insist on a single application at european level, which would probably have slowed down innovation in this project. i would also like to stress the importance of safety. we are very focused on cybersecurity and any operators who want to develop applications (apple, google or others) will have to respect european rules on data protection, security and interoperability. it is not for this parliament that i need to remind you of the importance of the general data protection regulation. we have tools, control and implementation. national data protection authorities exist, they are grouped in a european-level council, the european data protection board, and i can tell you that already today, certain provisions, in particular in the context of emergency measures during the pandemic, are being examined by this european network to verify their compatibility with the provisions of the general regulation, this is the case in particular for a number of decrees adopted in hungary. i would like to emphasize that everything we announce in our guidelines can be monitored not only by the national authorities but also by a european network which exchanges and looks for the best way of applying the rules which we are recalling rather than setting because these rules are in the general regulation. and we will be particularly vigilant about the use of tracking apps. they can make an important contribution to the fight against the covid-19 pandemic, but we must ensure that our data protection values and rules are fully respected by all operators. i would also like to point out that transparency and communication are essential elements for the effective use of applications. this is why we have intervened very early, with a recommendation on the toolkit and guidelines on the application of our data protection rules. i would like to tell mr lacapelle that if we are going to hand over the management of these applications to the health authorities, it is because they are particularly sensitive to the confidentiality of medical data and professional secrecy and they also have the capacity to fully define the relevant epidemiological parameters of these applications. in the perspective of reopening borders and supporting the internal market, attention must first be paid to interoperability and a common approach. finally, we will focus on the voluntary nature of these applications and ensure that no attempt is made to make them, indirectly, more or less compulsory, especially when it comes to crossing borders. this is something i will be very attentive to and will make the national data protection authorities aware of. i thank you again for this debate, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, because it is important that we act early enough to ensure that this tool, among others, helps us to fight the pandemic and emerge from the crisis in full respect of our values and data protection. europe has been a pioneer in the protection of personal data and must remain so during the crisis and after it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this is an important subject, and i would therefore like to underline once more the main points of the telecommunications ministers’ videoconference from the beginning of may. first, the contact tracing apps will have high importance for the gradual relaxation of various national measures, including opening of borders. second, the coordinated approach and interoperability at eu level is needed. and third, adequate protection of personal data and privacy should be provided. whatever technological solutions the member states choose, the use of their apps should be based on consent, and storage should be ensured at the highest level of privacy and the protection of personal data. interoperability will be the key to the success of these applications across borders and operative systems. additionally, it should be encouraged that all the data collected through the tracing app is stored in a clearly defined time-limited manner. i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss this important subject with all of you, and thank you for your remarks and suggestions, i took good note of them. and i am sure that our institutions’ common aim is to find the most effective solutions for tackling this epidemic and to make sure that our people and our economies can return to normality as quickly as possible.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. today's discussion on the use of smartphone apps in managing the spread of a pandemic is crucial not only in the context of the gradual lifting of restrictions on freedom of movement in the union, but also in the context of protecting the privacy of eu citizens. mobile applications are being developed and are already used in some member states to track people infected or at risk of infection. such applications can play an important and positive role in the process of easing pandemic restrictions and gradually returning to normal. however, they also have a disproportionate impact on our fundamental rights, such as data protection and privacy. while the protection of human life and public health is of paramount importance to all of us, both at eu and national level, it must be strongly emphasised that governments and the private sector cannot promote the use of untested technologies with the potential to infringe our rights. the long history of emergency measures in crisis situations shows that often when surveillance is introduced, it goes too far, fails to achieve its objectives and, on many occasions, despite the resolution of a crisis, its operation is prolonged without justification. mobile surveillance programmes, which can undoubtedly be temporary measures to contain the pandemic until the expected vaccine is available, cannot under any circumstances become a permanent part of the extended surveillance system.
in writing. – the european union and the eu member states must find coordinated common approach to support the gradual lifting of confinement measures. the group of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (s&d) supports joint approaches, but also underlines the importance of privacy and data protection aspects of every possible digital solutions. i believe that every contact tracing app must comply with eu data protection and privacy rules and should be based on anonymised data. they can complement existing manual contact tracing and according to some member states these applications can help interrupt the transmission chain of the virus, but the use of them must strictly remain voluntary-based and cannot be linked as condition to other rights, such as border crossings, employment or to entering to public institutions.
in writing. – digital solutions such as contact tracing applications are essential in the fight against covid-19, particularly as countries ease lockdown measures. however, strong privacy safeguards must be essential. thus far the commission has maintained that contact tracing apps should guarantee privacy, should not store unnecessary personal information including location tracking, should be installed voluntarily, and dismantled post-pandemic. although these safeguards are essential, they must also be enforced on a member state level and there must be interoperability between different contact tracing applications. additionally, the commission must enforce independent app reviews and audits on a member state level. these apps must be frequently checked for privacy, transparency, and functional usability concerns, especially as the covid-19 is still evolving. the commission should help the member states assemble a team of cross-sector experts for these reviews. medical experts should determine that these apps can be effectively integrated into different phases of virus containment. technical and data experts should consistently guarantee privacy and functionality. legal experts must continuously develop and provide regulatory framework and legislation updates on data collection and data destruction. further, this entire process must be extremely transparent so that the public feels comfortable using the apps.
in writing. the right to privacy is a fundamental human right. it is guaranteed by international legal acts, european law and the polish constitution article 47 of the basic law speaks directly about it. the right to privacy is not an absolute right, however, as even in the most democratic countries it can be limited by important public interests. however, such restrictions must be imposed on the basis of generally applicable law and must be necessary and proportionate. this is very important because any invasion of an individual's privacy is an invasion of their freedom. the coronavirus pandemic has left governments in many countries facing a dilemma of whether to control the movement of citizens in the name of controlling the spread of the pandemic or not to risk interfering with their freedom. because we know that such interference is always an opportunity for abuse. especially since current technologies allow for surveillance on a large scale. most eu governments have chosen the first option: in poland, for example, the home quarantine app is used. i'm not opposed to solutions that are designed to monitor the movement of pandemics. after all, it is about protecting the health and lives of the people of the union. however, i would like to emphasize that such measures must be proportionate and serve monitoring rather than surveillance. they must also be consistent at eu level: the protection of the right to privacy should not be less for some and more for others.
in writing. new digital technologies and services bring not only benefits but also risks. the benefits when they serve citizens, the risks when they are used to mass surveillance of citizens, invasion of privacy and violation of basic human rights under the guise of protecting citizens in times of crisis. there is evidence that crises are used to introduce surveillance tools that are maintained after the crisis and used for other purposes, such as not only controlling distance between people, but also crowd control and citizen surveillance. this could lead to the creation of totalitarian states. furthermore, databases can become a target for hackers. our privacy and freedom on the one hand, and our security on the other, are not mutually exclusive, but on the contrary, we can only feel safe when our privacy and freedom are upheld, and not living in a state that can unlimitedly interfere with our privacy. the state's power to monitor the entire population is dangerous for democracy, freedom and civil rights. there is a presumption of innocence. therefore, the prosecution and the courts must consider each case individually. the way to ensure real security is to effectively prosecute individual cases of breach of the law and to punish the perpetrators consistently. if we fail to be aware of these threats, new technologies and digital services could lead to the end of human freedom.
in writing. effective fight against covid-19 on all fronts is paramount to ensure we return to normalcy and prevent further economic collapse. the contact tracing application in the fight against coronavirus should provide security for the health and information of eu citizens. maximum security for sensitive data, decentralisation, interoperability of systems, specific application times, cooperation of all member states in developing the solution are all elements that make us all trust the new technologies. consultation with the medical community and ngos, industry and business organisations, as well as full voluntary use, are of the utmost importance. a great example of rapid response, good cooperation and world-class security is the protego safe application implemented by poland. this is a fully decentralised solution unrelated to, for example, the 'home quarantine' application, intended for a different user group and serving different purposes. it is tested for cybersecurity on an ongoing basis, does not use location data, does not require the provision of your name, pesel number, telephone number or other identifying data, unlike solutions in some eu countries, and will only be used to prevent covid-19 infection. let us use the good practices of member states to minimise the interference with the privacy of eu citizens. we want all eu citizens to have such gdpr-compliant solutions so that they feel safe, are happy to use innovative solutions and protect themselves by protecting others.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i fully support the commission's global response to the coronavirus event, which registered €7.4 billion in donations from donors around the world. the visegrad group, of which poland is a part, has allocated eur 3 million for vaccines and antiviral medicines under this initiative. once new treatments and vaccines are ready to be brought to market, the european structural and investment funds should play a key role in increasing production capacity, while taking particular care and ensuring a fair and appropriate allocation of resources for each member state. however, developing a vaccine is associated with significant costs and a high risk of failure. it will take a long time to develop safe and effective vaccines that are approved for use, and we must be aware that there are no quick fixes in this process. finding a vaccine quickly is important, but it's more important to make sure it's effective and safe for patients. in the rapid development of a vaccine, all side effects may not be known, and therefore the question of responsibility needs to be resolved. in conclusion, i would like to ask the commission what action it plans to take to ensure that the results of vaccine research are made available to everyone, to find ways of speeding up clinical trials and to address the issue of liability once vaccines are bought and used.
mr. chairman, please! europe needs solidarity today, and europeans need hope. i am pleased to note that the president has indicated that the fund will be increased, but of course, as always, we need to know the details. we have already heard in this chamber that we must increase our own resources. i think it's also a good time to start fighting tax fraud. i also take for granted the president's statement that it is time to put aside stereotypes and prejudices. and i believe that the european union will now really be guided above all by the principles of the treaties, that it will be solidary, that it will take account of the situation in all the member states and treat each one according to its needs. europeans need jobs and hope today, and we have an obligation to give them that.
the commission proposal is a political coup d'état. it is not about corona but about the power in the eurozone and the power of brussels. we are on the threshold of an irreversible transfer union in which one part of europe wants to hold the wallet of another part hostage. but mrs von der leyen - who has just left - you are not here yet. vetoes are possible from 27 member states, on the level of the multiannual budget, on new european taxes, which i understand the cda in the european parliament is in favour of, and on joint debts through the commission, which is in fact contrary to article 311 of the treaty. the eu is icarus on its way to the sun. we're going to fight back. there is a ratification procedure, namely in 27 member states through more than 50 parliaments. we are taking the debate to the people, the people who have to pay, and we are calling on german professors to go to the bundesverfassungsgericht. i'd love to do that myself, but unfortunately, i'm not a german professor.
mr president, europe is defined as a political project by the answer it gives to its crises. many citizens have bad memories about how we managed the last financial crisis. they were made guilty of the excesses of their governments and their incompetence in planning economic and industrial change. we cannot allow this to happen again. we must take this opportunity for europe, through next generation eu, to work more directly with citizens and enterprises, to really overcome national frontiers, to empower a network of regions and metropolitan areas that can be effective, quick to react and close to the people. we must choose: a europe as an enormous manager of some obsolete state unable to deal with the future or a europe as a cooperative of citizens, equal in rights and freedoms, that brings back to the people returns in terms of social, cultural and democratic progress. next generation eu is a first step. go ahead without hesitation.
mr president, we are facing a decisive moment: either we are ambitious or we will not survive. this 750 billion euro plan presented by the commission is ambitious, and therefore also represents hope. however, much work remains to be done. first, parliament must be involved in the design of the recovery plan. europe needs, in addition to this economic marshall plan, a democratic marshall plan which defends the rule of law and our values as strongly as we defend our single currency. secondly, we need guarantees that this fund will be distributed fairly and equitably and that it will reach the citizens; that the billions of euros we are announcing today will be real. citizens no longer believe us when we say the word "billions". too many times it's meant nothing to them. thirdly, it is urgent that this fund should be made available as soon as possible. millions and millions of people in europe cannot wait. the ruin kills more than the virus. fourthly, this plan cannot be implemented at the expense of reducing the european budget. we don't have different needs, we just have more needs now. fifthly, the fund cannot be used to whitewash the policies of bad governments. if we water populism, it's a plant that will grow and take root. sixth, we are 27 states that put the money in and 27 states that collect the money. let us not be fooled: money does not fall from the sky, sooner or later citizens will have to put it in. so this plan must think of the citizens and not the governments. it's time for the welfare state to show its muscle. seventhly, the financial framework cannot compromise the next financial framework. the national parliaments will ultimately have to approve this plan. conclusion: the economy is not about numbers, the economy is about trust. we are talking about human beings. we are talking about the lives of all our fellow citizens, not the politicians who rule them.
mr. president, we are facing a historic day today. because it can certainly be the beginning of a fundamental and irrevocable change in the process of building the european union. a change similar, by the way, to that which the introduction of the euro meant. the joint issuance of debt represents a fundamental change in the economic and social fabric of our union. it is a step we have been working towards for decades and today we have a proposal from this commission which is aimed in that direction. i think that this communication, this review, this design of the recovery fund is a reasonable proposal, it is a sound proposal, it needs to be analysed, because obviously we have not had time to know the details, but i would like to take this opportunity to ask the council and to ask the members of this parliament to make a final effort, an additional effort to take this historic step for the benefit of all europeans.
madam president, this is a very important package. it is a very significant leap forward in the integration of the euro area, and it is a political message to our citizens: we are going to go into debt together to face the crisis together. obviously, we wanted more, we wanted a bigger package, one that had a bigger macroeconomic impact. i would venture to say that this is probably the minimum to save our euro area and our internal market. and a very clear message to the council: the future of thousands of european citizens cannot be held hostage to what four governments - and i say four governments, not four countries - want, which are not up to date. on the question of conditionality, which is going to be the subject of a very important debate, i want to say three things which i think are very relevant. the first one, yes to the digital transition, of course; yes to the ecological transition. let us not forget the social component in societies that are still very much affected by the previous crisis. second, we democratize the system of designing reforms. it is not possible for technocratic recommendations to reach the states without parliamentary control. and thirdly, above all, let us not go back too quickly to the anti-social reforms and austerity which have done so much damage to our societies in the past. let us make this a useful instrument for the future of our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after weeks, indeed months, we finally have a proposal in black and white, but all that glitters is not gold. in fact, there are many critical points. first, the level of contributions, because 500 billion euros in lost funds is a signal, yes, but it will not be enough. second, the timing of the disbursement, because these funds are needed now, in the next six months and in 2021: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of europe. third, the destination, because all you're doing is putting additional resources on often ideological priorities that you thought about before the virus, as if the virus never existed. fourthly, conditionality, because it is one thing to spend these resources accurately, and we would be short of it, but it is quite another to let brussels dictate the reforms to be implemented in our own country. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are thinking about how to recover resources from outside parties, but it is hard to imagine that even a penny more in taxes could burden our small and mediumsized businesses. on these points, mr president, we will be breathing down your neck.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's proposal for reconstruction shows that there is only one solution: more courage, more solidarity and, above all, more europe. no country is an island. i would like to say this in particular to the egoistic four, which includes the austrian federal government. i hope that the commission will not be too hasty in its decision to withdraw the proposal. europe will succeed together or it will fail. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the european union. a europe that protects, protects the sick. a europe that protects, that protects the young, that protects the women who are particularly affected by this crisis. we must therefore remember the promises we made a year ago when the european elections were held. let's protect all these people! this means that half of the funds now being raised will be allocated to women, and that half of the funds will go to the half of the population most affected by this crisis.
mr president, you may have seen - you all have seen - when you drive here from zaventem that during one of the nights of the lockdown an environmental minister from the brussels region has taken a lane away from the rue de la loi. that was the old dream and it's supposedly because of corona that it had to happen. all i'm saying is that politicians in power are abusing corona. and that's what happened here today. the old federalist dreams, the centralist dreams, the showpieces, so to speak, in which the mutualisation of debt is debated, the taxation of this european union, are simply pushed through and introduced here behind the scenes of the virus theatre overnight. mrs von der leyen has said 'corona is europe's moment'. yes, it is. it may be europe's moment for her and for the elite here, but for the european peoples it is a dark moment, a dark moment. it is considered a brutal assault on the population and that is something i wanted to deplore very much here today.
vice-president of the commission. – thank you very much madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, my dear colleagues from the european commission. first, i really would like to thank you for what i felt was very strong, overwhelming support in most of the interventions for the ambitious proposal the commission has tabled today. and i really would like to thank you for the inspiration, which on many occasions we have drawn from this house, from your resolutions, from the debates that we had with you, when we’ve been looking for ways to best respond to your calls for demonstrating more solidarity, for using this crisis as an opportunity to modernise the european economy and for consolidating the position of europe as a global actor and global player. we put forward proposals, which was never done before. it’s really without precedent, because what we wanted to do was to adapt the initial multiannual financial perspective proposal to the current needs and because we fully realised that the economic crisis is so sharp and so deep, we knew that we need to come up with a new instrument, which we named next generation eu. altogether, we are talking about eur 1.1 trillion of the proposal for mff, an additional eur 750 billion for the next generation instrument, which would be divided between grants and loans, as you suggested in your resolution. i very much appreciate that mr weber, ms garcía pérez and mr cioloș supported this approach and i would like to reassure you that we know that the success of the results – if we invest the money in the right areas, and we definitely want to do that – we fully realise that if we want to modernise the european economy, we have to invest in green, sustainable technologies. we have to be much more digital than we are right now, and we have to learn our lessons for improving the resilience of the european economy, because we learned how difficult it is to be dependent on some global value chains or single supplier of such sensitive health materials as we have seen over the last few months. so what we have put on the table is that the proposal has to not only overcome the crisis, but has to modernise, has to respect the important social aspects of our policy and has to make europe really ready for the post-covid 21st-century world. a lot of questions – and some of them presented with a great vigour – have been linked to debts and also to own resources – mr meuthen, ms aubry, mr van overtveldt. here again, i would like to tell you that we did our homework. we studied the issue very carefully and we have come up with different options for own resources, which you want to, of course, explore with you and with the member states. we want to use the new ets revenues, which will be coming eventually from the aviation and maritime sector, to use them for financing parts of the mff in the future. we are considering the so-called ‘single market tax’, especially from those companies which are benefiting from the fact that the single market is so big and functions that well. we will be following carefully how other countries and powers on this planet are respecting the paris goals and if they are really reducing the carbon footprint of their products and their economy, and we will be ready to proceed if necessary with a carbon adjustment tax which, again, could be revenue for the european budget. and we are, of course, not forgetting about the possibility of digital taxation where, of course, we want to have a global agreement, preferably within the oecd or g20, but if this did not work, we are ready to consider to go alone. and ms szydło and mr azmani have highlighted the importance of tax evasion and unfair tax practices. this is, of course, one of the priorities upon which we are going to focus, and for us, the proper execution of the european budget and proper tax collection is, of course, one of the key priorities. to be quite honest, i didn’t quite get the comment of the honourable member, mr gyöngyösi, who was criticising us for lack of transparency. at 12 o’clock, we in the college adopted these very important proposals, and at one o’clock the whole college was here. the european parliament was the first audience where we presented our proposals, where our president went into great detail about what we want to do and how we want to accomplish it. and therefore, i think that that tradition where we fully respect the democratic scrutiny of the european parliament would be, of course, maintained in the future, and we will be debating with you all of the legislative proposals, which are very complex and where we need close cooperation and very close consultation. there’ve been several questions linked with state aid. i have to say that my colleague, executive vice-president vestager, is known for her vigour in reviewing and assessing every single application, and we also have to agree that these last three months have been totally exceptional. at first, we had to fight for the lives of our citizens, then for the livelihoods and for jobs, and this is what we’ve been, with your help, doing since the beginning of this year. if you allow me, madam president, to conclude with a plea, with a request. because i think that we are at a truly historic european moment where we need – all of us – to show clear political leadership. we would very much appreciate the strong support of the european parliament, as mr gonzález pons has highlighted. but we also need your help to convince your compatriots back home. therefore, i’m also addressing this request towards the council and towards the member states, because we need a good decision. we need a quick decision, and of course we need to work very closely with all national parliaments as well, because in the end, when we are talking about the head-rooms, ceilings and own resources, we need also the positive ratification of the national parliaments. therefore, what we need is true political leadership, which would help europe to overcome the crisis and really to prepare it for the next phase. so my last sentence would be directed to all of us: let’s do this effort for the european union. let’s do it for the next generation, and let’s do it to demonstrate to our citizens that we know how to overcome the crisis and how we can prepare europe for the 21st century. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first, i would like to thank the house for this debate and i will convey its views to my colleagues and to the president of the european council and his team. as i said in my opening intervention, the council has started preparatory work on the commission proposals so as to create the conditions for the agreement as soon as possible. as i already mentioned, yesterday, in a video conference, the eu affairs ministers, have discussed the principles and the elements that needed to be addressed in shaping the instruments that will help to kick-start the european economy and achieve its medium and long-term priorities, such as cohesion, convergence, solidarity, flexibility and inclusiveness, as well as restoring a functioning single market and strengthening the resilience and strategic autonomy of the eu in face of future challenges. they stressed the need to make the funds available immediately and in a sufficient amount. offsetting the immediate negative impact of the crisis is important for the eu’s credibility. these discussions will continue in the coming days and weeks at all council levels. we are hopeful that the member states’ positions would be converging in order to have a timely agreement on the next eu budget, which will also be discussed by the european council. the council will need guidance from the european council before it can form its position. the european parliament shares our sense of urgency on the mff, whose speedy adoption has far-reaching consequences for our citizens, our businesses and our local and regional authorities, as mentioned here. the presidency will continue to listen carefully to parliament’s position and look forward to the continued cooperation between our two institutions to prepare the ground for an ambitious, forward-looking mff and to provide a strong response to our current and future challenges.
in writing. – health policy is national competence and the eu only supports national crisis management, but we have to admit member states’ governments and the european union itself missed the opportunity to coordinate the national public health responses in the initial stage of the covid-19 outbreak. the effect of these uncoordinated national responses undermined the core european value and principles. fortunately, the union and member states still have the chance to change their attitude when realizing their exit strategies. the effective operation of the single market depends on how we exit from this crisis. the asymmetric covid-19 policies have already created conflicting interests. the suspension of the free movement of persons undermines citizens’ sense of belonging to the eu. moreover, the dissonance of the national regulations also undermine our common european values, such as well functioning cross-border co-operations and unnecessarily reduces interstate labour mobility. such rules put in very difficult situation businesses offering cross-border services, also based on them production might be halted or reduced because of disrupt supply changes. this can be even more harmful for smaller member states such as luxembourg which is more affected by closing borders in the single market. therefore, member states’ reactions must be better coordinated.
in writing. confidence in european institutions for major crises is not always fully shared by our fellow citizens. on the other hand, it is always expected of these citizens that these same institutions will take the initiative to get out of the crisis. the union faces major challenges in the years ahead, even greater than the financial crisis of 2008. in this case, we have the opportunity for the two trillion euro recovery plan to be a balance between solidarity and discipline for our multiannual financial framework. similarly, this aid must in no way be detrimental to the annual accounts of the member states; everything must be financed from the union's own resources, a concept 'of own resources' which will undoubtedly become more important as the crisis unfolds. in a world where nationalism, empty speeches and the lack of longterm plans are prevailing, europe can once again be that beacon of wisdom and longterm reference for the rest of the countries, as it has always been.
in writing. from a french point of view, the recovery plan is a real scam, since france is once again a net contributor as it has been for a long time to the european budget. this is a reminder of the weakness of the european union, which is built around a limited number of states able to make a financial contribution. this imbalance will only become more pronounced with the departure of the united kingdom and the planned enlargement to the western balkans. there is no doubt that the forthcoming negotiations between member states will be perilous. it is also unacceptable that the european union should take advantage of a crisis situation to arrogate new prerogatives and new resources to itself in defiance of the fierce opposition of public opinion in some member states. the digital tax is a sea serpent that has been revived in mrs von der leyen's words. it is therefore illusory to see in this recovery plan a new impetus for the european union, since it will only sharpen the existing divisions between the north, the east and the south. there can be no union between such disparate states, and the next wave of enlargement will soon have underlined this fact once again.
in writing. today's extraordinary plenary session of the european parliament was convened to launch a discussion with the commission and the european council on a corrective package for the eu. millions of europeans are waiting for real help in this emergency. they are not waiting for declarations, but for the tools they can use to save their work, often for their entire lives. the reality around us is that nothing is given to us once and for all, and the sense of security we have today is far from what we had at the beginning of this year. we need to work together to get back to as close as we can to where we were before the current pandemic, and that's a huge challenge in itself. but that is what the citizens of europe expect. economic security is of the utmost importance. we cannot allow an economic collapse both in our countries and in the eu as a whole. the union budget's priorities will certainly need to be reviewed, especially in order to be prepared for similar situations in the near future. we hope that mrs von der leyen's declarations today will be realistic, calling for the rejection of prejudice and stereotypes. unfortunately, my country has experienced this kind of discrimination many times before and it still does, right here in this building and in this institution. i hope that the challenges we face together today will help change that.
in writing. in its resolutions of 17 april and 15 may 2020, the european parliament called on the commission to present a massive package of measures and investments for recovery and reconstruction, in support of the european economy. the unprecedented economic and social crisis triggered by the covid-19 pandemic is europe's most difficult moment in the last 70 years and therefore requires immediate responses that are relevant to the challenges we face. the commission is today proposing the 'next generation eu', a new recovery instrument of 750 billion, which will be added to the 1100 billion of the new mff and the other instruments, for a recovery commitment of 2400 billion in total. it is an ambitious plan, which reflects the awareness that no member state can tackle this serious crisis alone and the need for genuine european solidarity, and which also recognises the role of parliament in tackling the emergency. the negotiations on the proposal must now take place under the urgency recognised by the croatian presidency, so that it can immediately address the needs and requirements of citizens, workers and businesses, ensure social cohesion and foster rapid and sustainable recovery and development.
in writing. europe is facing one of the worst crises since its inception and a decisive response is key to a rapid recovery. i welcome the commission's proposal to provide an additional €750 billion to deal with the crisis. the money will be used primarily to strengthen existing eu programmes. i am particularly pleased that the compromise proposal is also good for slovenia, which will receive more than eur 5 billion from the funds. i also welcome the historic decision to finance the debt by allowing the eu to borrow on its own in the financial markets, including through bonds, and to finance the debt with new own resources such as carbon and digital taxes. but i'm afraid the new own resources won't be enough. the socialists and democrats have also been advocating for many years the introduction of a european tax on financial transactions, a uniform taxation of capital, especially multinational capital, and the final abolition of tax havens and highly tax-friendly regimes for capital, which would bring additional resources to both the european and national budgets. the commitments to a fair europe for people, not for capital, that we have been advocating for many years in the sd, have become more urgent than ever with this crisis. but we must not allow the burden of additional debt to fall on people or future generations.
in writing. the presentation of "next generation eu", a €750 billion plan, of which €500 billion is a lost-and-found, is not only an important signal to counter the coronavirus emergency, it is also a historic achievement for europe and italy, which should be allocated the largest share of the resources. the european commission's response is the development of the proposal put forward by italy at the time, on the initiative of the president of the council, giuseppe conte, who from the outset asked europe for an ambitious plan, capable of responding effectively to the serious crisis caused by the exceptional and exceptional historical moment we are living through. a plan whereby aid to the countries and sectors most affected by the pandemic would be translated into the best and least selfish of solutions. it contains concrete proposals and objectives historically dear to the five star movement: green new deal, energy transition, and digitization. the european council now has the final say. the health, social and economic crisis caused by the coronavirus is reducing the time needed for negotiations, and i hope that the council will be able to see solidarity and unity of purpose on the part of those countries which are still calling for measures and solutions that are only in the direction of borrowing.
in writing. from a hungarian point of view, it is a success that the new recovery facility is not proposed to be set up at the expense of regional development programmes and the common agricultural policy. however, the previous criticisms of the mff by two thirds of member states, including hungary, were also justified in the light of the new proposal, which was almost unchanged from the previous proposals. hungary has achieved remarkable economic success in recent years and is also at the forefront of the management of the epidemic. it would be unjustified not to benefit from the recovery resources because we have managed the epidemic successfully and have reduced our public debt over the years through a disciplined fiscal policy. as in the case of cohesion policy, it is important for the recovery facility that the allocation of resources also takes into account differences in economic development between member states and the state of the economic sectors affected by the crisis. we cannot have poorer member states financing richer ones. the €750 billion in the recovery facility will be raised by the european commission through the use of long-term loans. the loan will be repaid by the member states over 30 years in proportion to their contributions to the eu's general budget. hungary has to repay eur 7.5 billion of the 750 billion debt at a rate of 1%. in the face of this debt, it is unacceptable that our country should receive a non-repayable aid of only €8.1 billion, which is barely more than the amount of this debt.
in writing. an ambitious common budget and a recovery facility are needed to overcome the pandemic crisis and boost our economies. it is important that the rules of the game can only be changed by consensus; that the introduction of new conditions can only be decided by complete agreement. the recovery facility should be made available from surplus resources and should not undermine traditional policies such as cohesion or agricultural policy. cohesion policy is a key element for the proper functioning of the internal market; without reducing disparities in development, there is no competitiveness and it is therefore important that its funding is not reduced. hungary is at the forefront of the management of the epidemic and its effects. as a result, the impact of the coronavirus crisis on the hungarian economy is expected to be less severe than the eu average. however, it would be unjustified to exclude the central and eastern european member states from the adequate allocation of funds because they have managed the epidemic successfully and have reduced their public debt over the years through a disciplined fiscal policy. the crisis has affected all countries; it is important that they benefit from the recovery facility in a fair manner and on the same terms, whether they are member states within or outside the euro area. the poorest member states must not finance the richest. as regards the objectives of the recovery facility, the development of the missing transport and energy infrastructure, in particular in the central and eastern european regions, should be considered a priority alongside the transition to a green economy and digitalisation.
in writing. the european union has never faced a bigger challenge than covid-19. it can be said that the last economic crisis did not really affect europe compared to the current situation. today the whole world is in crisis, and where our continent is going depends on the decisions of the european union. the need for bold decisions and the greatest economic plan since world war ii. the pace of action now depends on whether we can return to pre-pandemic conditions quickly or whether we have many years of reconstruction ahead of us. ideological disputes and wasting time on artificial problems must be put on the back burner. the eu must return to its economic roots, because that is what our citizens expect. both grants to maintain european companies and loans for new investments are needed.
in writing. the recovery fund will play a key role in the economic recovery of the european union after a crisis of unprecedented proportions. in view of the impact of the crisis on the economies of the member states, it is of the utmost importance that the recovery fund is appropriately planned and that appropriate spending priorities are set. while the economic shock caused by the pandemic affects all member states, it should be borne in mind that the structures of the economies of these countries differ significantly. for this reason, the eu's economic response cannot be limited to arbitrarily selected sectors and universal solutions, but must be calibrated for each member state. it is also crucial for the economic future of the member states to set appropriate spending priorities, which should be determined on the basis of a comprehensive assessment taking into account not only the immediate effects of the pandemic but also long-term economic challenges and needs. the guiding principles for economic recovery actions should be convergence, cohesion, inclusiveness, solidarity and resilience building. the parallel work on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 is also to be highlighted. it is necessary to maintain a coherent policy of convergence between the multiannual financial framework and the actions undertaken under the recovery fund, so that member states are not burdened with costs disproportionate to the size of their economies.
in writing. the european commission's proposal for a new financial package to help rebuild europe's economy, adopted today, is a step in the right direction. in her speech, president von der leyen stressed the very important point that we have about the european economy. the single market means that the european economy is not simply the sum of national economies, it is a whole new quality. it's much more than that. the success of certain economic ventures in one country has an impact on other countries. the labour market on one side of the border affects the labour market on the other side of the border. the european economy is a federal structure, where borders are just lines on a map. and that's why the plan to rebuild it must be a joint one. and he must also be very ambitious. we can't afford to be cheap on it. the cost of not doing something would be much higher. that is why i welcome the proposal to allocate an additional 750 billion euros to rebuild the european economy. i am also pleased to hear that the union's own budgetary revenue catalogue will be extended. it is one of the tools of european federalisation, a process which is logical, natural and inevitable for the union. if we really want a union that is secure and prosperous, not a body torn apart by national egos.
in writing. eu countries have faced serious and unexpected challenges due to the actions taken by governments in relation to sars-cov-2. today, economies are being gradually launched and the shape of the mff for 2021-2027 needs to be considered to ensure that the framework is ambitious enough to contribute to the recovery of the european economy. the european agricultural sector has played a key role in ensuring food security. it seems unfortunate, then, that the future of agriculture is still in jeopardy. the number of farms and the number of farmers are decreasing, and the farming population is ageing. in addition, the green deal targets mean that farmers are faced with the need to meet higher, costly climate requirements. aid is necessary, but there is a risk of new disparities emerging and of weakening the contribution of cohesion and rural development policies. we cannot allow a situation in which we see a significant increase in the competitiveness of some regions and agricultural sectors compared to others. the budget proposal for the common agricultural policy presented by the european commission does not guarantee a sufficiently secure future for european agriculture: it is not ambitious enough and is not sufficient. in addition, the green deal objectives contribute to widening the competitiveness gaps in some eu regions. the union has full responsibility for the agricultural sector. the strengthening of the common agricultural policy must become the main pillar of cooperation on the future shape of the cap. otherwise, the sector and thus the food security of europeans will be at risk.
in writing. – the ‘next generation eu’ recovery plan unveiled today proves that the eu acts decisively when it comes to helping european citizens and businesses. despite there being some opposition to the use of grants for recovery, the commission’s proposal is bold because it includes eur 500 billion in grants. the funds will be allocated using different programmes, some of which will be managed directly by brussels, while others by the member states themselves. anyone who has been affected by the crisis can make use of this ambitious plan – smes and big businesses, state and local institutions and start-ups, medical and educational institutions, etc. the important thing is that we are not looking to restore the pre-covid-19 situation but to place a new emphasis on recovery through new technologies, digitalisation, sustainable environmental policies and measures, and ensuring the sustainability and independence of key sectors of our economy. in other words, this is a plan for economic growth which aims for the eu to be more competitive with china and the us in two years than it was before the pandemic.
in writing. this year marks the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration, and it is a good time to reflect on the way the community works. at a time when europe is facing its worst crisis since the second world war, we must return to our roots and to the fundamental values that inspired our founding fathers. thank you very much, madam president, for your enthusiastic and positive energy. we all know how important it is to implement a solid recovery package quickly to get europe's economy back on its feet and to support the millions of european citizens affected by the crisis. but we must not forget to respect the different opinions of its members. we must reject prejudices and stereotypes and not harbor resentment towards member states that took matters into their own hands and effectively contained the pandemic in its first phase. we need to have a debate on a deep reform of the eu, and we need to return to it after the crisis is over. the president has outlined a vision for a new generation of the european union, based on the drive for ecological and digital transformation, among other things, but do we know what europe will look like in a few months? what if the pandemic comes back in the fall with double the force, how prepared are we? europe needs to be fixed now! the critical sectors of the economy must return to europe with production. decisions taken in a spirit of responsibility and solidarity must concern all eu citizens.
in writing. i welcome the draft budget of the union presented by the commission today, together with the plan for the reconstruction of europe. the updated budget is assumed to be increased to 2% of the union's gni and to amount to eur 1,1 trillion. the reconstruction fund is planned to be eur 750 billion. this is certainly more than what france and germany proposed (eur 500 billion), but still far less than what parliament concluded in its resolution of 15 may this year (eur 2 trillion). in this context, difficult negotiations between member states in the council are undoubtedly to be expected, but i am convinced that parliament will in principle seek to maintain the planned expenditure at a level at least equivalent to that proposed by the commission. it will probably use the key treaty power it has in the budgetary procedure (agreement) to do so. the commission communication also highlights the proposed financing of the enlarged budget and the reconstruction fund. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. i believe that the increase in the union's budgetary and fiscal capacity is moving in the right direction. this should be one of the subjects of in-depth discussion at the forthcoming conference on the future of europe.
in writing. the european commission's proposal for a european economic recovery plan is reasonable in the current circumstances and taking into account all the risks. the €750 billion is not just for grants and plugging holes, but for environmentally friendly and innovative investments to keep the eu competitive in a post-crisis world. the european single market must be re-established and the four great freedoms of europe must be fully restored. it is also essential that the shock of the current crisis does not create major tensions and contradictions in relations between eu countries. i see this recovery plan helps to alleviate and prevent them. it is therefore a european plan and, in the current situation, an important solution to ensure a strong europe in the post-crisis period. and a strong europe is in estonia's immediate vital interests.
in writing. – one welcomes the objectives and thrust of the eu recovery package, aimed at relaunching the european economy in the wake of the covid—19 pandemic. the highlight of this package is the recovery fund. the proposal that a large percentage of the funding will be in grants is positive. its integration into the multiannual financial framework also makes sense. still the question remains: will the proposed rise of the gni own resources ceiling be enough to cover the envisaged requirements? some economic forecasts seem to make this quite doubtful. then more crudely: who will exactly benefit from the envisaged recovery plan? will the multiple goals that are inbuilt into its proposed design skew benefits towards particular regions or sectors, at the expense of others? for instance: in response to green deal exigencies, significant resources will apply to the promotion of clean energy applications, like the creation of a million charging stations for electric cars. naturally producers of the latter, mainly located in two member states, will benefit most from this. care will have to be taken to ensure that the recovery plan, positive as it is, does not serve to widen instead of narrow existing divergences between different regions of the union.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis has highlighted the union's weaknesses in protecting fundamental human rights, proving that it is time not only for a more principled approach to union law and policies, but also for new competences. the crisis caused by the pandemic has affected people from social groups that were already exposed to discrimination, exclusion, violence. women who have experienced domestic violence are now even more vulnerable to it. pregnant and childbearing women have less access to antenatal care. in some countries, lgbt people are being denied their basic right to dignity under the guise of fighting the coronavirus. people with disabilities are affected by the deficiencies in the health care system and are deprived of the necessary treatment and rehabilitation. this situation clearly shows that the lack of coordinated action by the union and of uniform guarantees of rights can lead to abuses of fundamental rights by governments. the union must take responsibility for the most vulnerable groups in society and ensure that the recovery plan also takes into account their rights. i have repeatedly stressed that we can no longer delay the union's ratification of the istanbul convention, the effective implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the adoption of the horizontal equality directive. we must remember that the eu is not only a political and economic body but also a social one, and that equality of men and the uniform safeguarding of their rights should be our standards.
in writing. what happened in the us, what orbán is doing in hungary, what the president of poland is saying in poland, has the same source prejudice, hatred, lack of modern, equal education. we cannot stand idly by while in the united states, african americans are more brutally treated and more often killed by police, and racism is still not effectively addressed. we cannot stand idly by while people in hungary are being deprived of the right to decide their own identity. we cannot stand idly by while the president of poland calls people an ideology and compares the human rights movement to bolshevism. equality is a fundamental value of the european union. the human rights system is part of our dna. either we learn to defend this value, or the european union we dream of, the one we want, will cease to exist. perhaps it is high time to ask whether education, in particular civic education, anti-discrimination, pro-democracy education, should not simply be the exclusive competence of the european union. because how else are we going to protect people from discrimination, exclusion, violence if we have no influence on what european citizens learn in school, on how european police, prosecutors, judges are trained? it is high time for european education!
madam president, as deputy chair of the eu-uk friendship group, i would of course like for there to be a deal, but i’m beginning to despair. our red line and our politics is that we want to preserve the integrity of the single market. the british prime minister has communicated to us that britain cannot accept a deal which puts britain under the jurisdiction of the european court of justice or that binds the house of commons in any way in future in determining britain’s commercial arrangements. that seems to me to make a deal impossible, because the nature of a treaty, any treaty, is that you will do in future what the treaty says, and not as you please. and, therefore, our red lines don’t seem to touch at any point. therefore, i would urge you to stop demanding the impossible from our negotiators and start preparing for what is regrettable but seems to be inevitable, which is a very hard brexit indeed.
in writing. in the last few years, the european union has been tested as never before. mainly because of brexit and the other successive crises related to the eurozone debt, the uncontrolled influx of migrants, the breakdown of the rule of law and finally the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. they revealed numerous shortcomings both in the union's governance system and in its competences. i am convinced that we are therefore in a situation which requires a decisive response, and i hope that the forthcoming conference on the future of europe will result in recommendations for fundamental constitutional changes. they should, in my view, provide for a transfer of greater powers to the union and institutional changes, including the abolition of the unanimity rule in the council, the conferral on the european commission of the role of a de facto union government by limiting the role of the european council, the reduction of the commission's composition and its dependence on the outcome of the european elections. the strengthening of the european parliament's position, its increased powers of control, its budgetary powers on a par with those of the council and its effective right of legislative initiative (independent of commission decisions) are also important. i also believe that if not all member states are interested in making deep reforms and further deepening cooperation (unanimity), then deeper integration could be achieved by a new treaty between the member states concerned, based on the existing eu institutional system.
in writing. europe is in a difficult situation, we are still fighting the covid-19 pandemic, which will cause economic problems. i support the work of the conference on the future of europe. it may be a forum for reflection on the eu's response to the pandemic, but it is precisely because of this crisis that the conference should not be a priority. it is important that all eu institutions, with due respect for their treaty competences, and equally member states, have the opportunity to decide on the future of europe. we must not forget the national parliaments, whose participation will strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the conference. the future of europe is a community of peoples where each individual tradition is valued, where each is aware of its history and its roots. the goals that we have on the horizon are post-covid-19 economic crisis, demography, return to values. europe cannot deny the universal and absolute values. we need a europe that protects and defends the weakest, whose voice is not heard. it is not enough for europe to have christian roots, it must have a future. to paraphrase pope francis, it is time to build a europe that is as much about the economy as it is about the sanctity of the human person, which is an inalienable value. a europe that embraces its past with courage and looks to its future with confidence, so as to live its present fully and with hope. the time has come to (...) promote a participatory europe, one that brings knowledge, art, music, humanistic values and also values of faith.
mr president, in protecting europe’s strategic sectors there is no single silver bullet – we need the whole toolbox. that’s why i welcome the white paper that looks at ways of reining in foreign subsidies, but we also will need to strengthen our investment screening approach vis-à-vis predatory takeovers. even though the volume of capital invested has decreased recently, the number of investments has grown, which means that investment from china is going after smaller companies that still might have a strategic role. so i think we should try to start amending our investment screening mechanism once it comes into force in october and we could learn a lesson from this. in addition, i think in order to protect our strategic sectors we must also protect their supply chains, and there it would be interesting to learn from japan where they’re investing into relocating in order to protect supply chains, and they do that together with asean countries. we could think of doing that with western balkan countries and other partners too.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all can i thank all of the contributors to this important issue. i want to make some concluding remarks by insisting on the fact that the european union has an open market. it welcomes foreign investments. but foreign investments certainly need to be screened, and i agree with the speakers glucksmann, bütikofer and hansen who have advocated that we need to be looking at an even stronger measure than we have in place for foreign direct investment, but this was the will of the co-legislators to have a light-touch, data-driven data-collection mechanism, and therefore we in the commission would certainly advocate a stronger measure here, if this is possible. so in that respect the foreign direct investment screening mechanism that will come into effect in october needs to be strengthened. also i think if there were two issues that we need your assistance on, then it would first of all be to respond in a very clear way and in a very strong way to the white paper that has been issued by my colleague commissioner vestager today, in terms of getting a good response about how we need to do more in dealing with the issue of farm subsidies and that they are competing on an uneven playing field with the european companies. and secondly your strong political support would be very welcome for moving on the international procurement instrument, which has been left a little bit in abeyance by a certain institution, so i call on the council and parliament and the commission to work more closely together in order to ensure that we get this particular piece of legislation enacted as quickly as possible.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me just echo what my colleague just said – and what mr bütikofer suggested – we need a toolbox. there’s no such thing as a silver bullet when it comes to these matters. they are complicated matters. but there are solutions to be found. and what we’re doing here is to express the fact that we will not – at the cost of businesses in europe and consumers in europe – sacrifice fair competition. because it serves us well. it gives us choice, it gives us affordable prices, it gives us innovation. but in the same vein, of course we will not let go of fair competition. we will stand up for european businesses when they are being unfairly challenged by businesses who get foreign subsidies for acquisitions, maybe even for their operating costs – the most harmful subsidy of all is to have someone pick up your bills in doing that. i hope that we can continue a strong cooperation on this. i really hope that you will encourage the co-legislator on the international procurement instruments, because here we need reciprocity and we need tools for that. i also hope that you will insist that we get better procurement rules, because procurement is a competition, and those who are the most efficient, with the highest quality, they should win: not those who come with a subsidy in their luggage. right now, european governments are doing the best they can to help businesses come through the damage that the coronavirus is doing, but they do that in a controlled way, they do that in a transparent way, they do that in a way that preserves the single market that will help us recover and create the jobs that have been lost. the reason why we’re dealing with foreign subsidies is that we have no control, no transparency, and that is why we stand up against this today. so thank you very much for the very broad support. i very much look forward to our future cooperation, also on these files.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this has been a very useful debate for all of us and i would like to thank you for parliament’s continuous engagement and interest in this topic. i have taken good note of all your comments and interventions, and i will convey them to my colleagues in the council. as i mentioned earlier, the economic crisis resulting from the covid-19 pandemic has made many european companies vulnerable to hostile takeovers by foreign companies. for this reason, the eu has to ensure that we preserve those assets that are crucial to our society and to our economy, and those that assist the post-crisis recovery. the new eu legislation to create the first eu-wide framework for the screening of foreign direct investment was adopted by the european parliament and the council in march 2019 has now entered into force and can be fully applied from 11 october 2020. finally, allow me to reiterate that the council and the member states will take all the necessary measures to protect strategic assets and technology from foreign investments that could threaten legitimate public-policy objectives.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the negative impact of the covid-19 crisis will be felt for a long time in europe and globally. as we try to return to normalcy in small steps, we cannot forget the challenges that lie ahead in the new "post-coronavirus reality". we must do everything we can to protect our economy from external factors that could weaken it. we must support our companies by creating appropriate mechanisms to protect them against takeovers by third country operators. strategic industries, such as defence, information technology and medicine, should remain the domain of the member states. we need to strengthen the internal market, strengthen our competition policy, so that we are better prepared for the next crisis. we have to be sensible. we cannot close ourselves off to foreign investment, which will help speed up economic recovery. but they must not be a threat to our security. they need constant monitoring, cooperation between member states and the exchange of information on an ongoing basis. we can't keep this contained. we can work together to protect our interests. we must act decisively. let us remember that by protecting our economy, we protect the internal market and consumers, and above all the citizens of the european union.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis is a threat of takeovers of companies in strategic sectors by investors from third countries. the ep and the re regulation on the monitoring of foreign direct investment in the eu will only come into force from october 2020. poland is one of the 14 countries with national regulations and applies the act of 24 july 2015 on the control of certain investments. the polish government, supporting polish entrepreneurs, has introduced a package of solutions called "anti-crisis shield" worth over pln 312 billion, which is intended to protect the polish state and citizens from the crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic. the entry of investors from third countries into europe is already happening. the target companies are strategic from the point of view of public safety (e.g. energy), health, new technologies and companies from key industries, in poland, among others, the furniture sector. it's important to remember that it's not just financial liquidity that makes acquisitions easy. the flow of know-how and the acquisition of eu r & d funds by companies from member states are a delicacy, and their loss can have very negative consequences. we must be especially vigilant and protect strategic sectors. checking the source of capital of companies wishing to invest in the eu and links with third country governments are essential. europe cannot become a tool in a global 'trade war'.
before we move on to the next item on the agenda, we shall now come to the second round of voting. the items on which we are voting are those on the agenda adopted at the beginning of the sitting today. the vote will take place from 8.32 p.m. to 9.45 p.m. the same voting procedure as we know is used. all votes shall be by roll call and members may consult their votes and the results of the votes in the document published on the website of the plenary session. i declare the second round of voting open and i repeat that you can vote until 9.45 p.m. the results of this round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m. at the beginning of the sitting.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on tourism and transport in 2020 and beyond (2020/2649 ((rsp)). i would like to repeat, as the previous chairmen have done, that there are no spontaneous messages and no blue cards will be accepted.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for inviting the commission for this debate to discuss what is of course on the mind of everyone nowadays. the vision of the commission for the recovery of tourism and transport, as we gradually emerge on the other side of the coronavirus pandemic. i am sincerely happy to be back with you. as the summer holidays approach, it is clear that we need to consider transport and tourism together. how would we physically go on holiday if no trains, boats, planes or cars were moving, or indeed moving across borders? however, getting the economy moving requires people moving too, and that requires trust and coordination. what we need to offer citizens is clarity, non-discrimination and seamless connectivity. we all know too well that the transport and tourism sectors have been the hardest hit by the pandemic, and particularly passenger transport. traffic across modes has been down by at least 80% compared to the previous year. transport is a vital enabler for many sectors, including tourism, and ensures the transport of goods that we all depend upon. it is in fact the backbone of the single market and economic activity as such. so restoring transport in the eu and beyond must be accelerated, while keeping health requirements in mind. our guidelines of 13 may set out a common framework for the progressive and safe restoration of transport services and connectivity. they provide general principles applicable to all transport services and specific recommendations for each transport mode. we have also proposed guidelines on the safe resumption of tourism services across the entire ecosystem, such as in hotels and restaurants, or for tour operators. additional guidelines were presented for restoring free movement and for making vouchers more attractive. with these guidelines we have all the necessary tools at hand to restart with this important part of our economy, as of now, well ahead of the economically so important summer of 2020. no endeavour can ever be risk free. however, our guidelines and the protocols developed by our agencies take all precautionary measures and provide the best available practices for reducing risks, all while making the resumption of passenger transport possible. these guidelines should be complemented by widespread information about the measures taken, so that each european can make responsible and well-informed decisions about how to limit health risks while travelling. any measures imposed in the transport sector have to be proportionate and risk-based. it is very important that member states are, as of this week, leaving the general transport bans or internal borders restrictions behind and favour instead more targeted measures. this means increasing cleaning, using protective equipment, prioritising electronic ticketing or avoiding crowding in hubs. cumulatively, these targeted measures can provide the much needed trust for people to restart travelling. because of the unique nature of aviation, the eu aviation safety agency and the european centre for disease control have published additional operational recommendations based on the commission’s general guidelines. it clarifies that a number of appropriate measures should be taken. this can, in conjunction with inbuilt features in aircraft, such as hospital grade filters, permit the reduction of risks to acceptable levels. acting together is key, since transport is by nature a cross-regional and cross-border activity. it goes without saying that restoring links must always be coordinated, in particular we need to ensure that any measures applied at points of arrival and departure are mutually acceptable, otherwise travel will become prohibitively burdensome, expensive and in some cases impossible. in this regard, we will also continue our good cooperation with member states through our network of transport contact points established at the beginning of the covid-19 crisis in the context of the green lanes guidelines. safety is not the only thing needed to inspire trust. trust is also built on precedent and the precedent we wanted to defend is that consumers should be protected in the eu at all times. the commission has been clear throughout this crisis that the rights of passengers to reimbursement shall not be restricted. consumers, especially those who have been hit economically by the crisis, will only get back to travelling for leisure and tourism if they can rest assured that their travel packages and flights are to be reimbursed if cancelled. in addition to all that, resuming passenger transport and tourism requires business continuity for all the sectors. securing working capital, funding of operations, public support for businesses to maintain investment pipelines are all vital economic prerequisites for regaining connectivity and building a transport system that is fit for the future. the commission has therefore proposed a robust and comprehensive package for the recovery of the eu economy. although specific economic sectors do not have ring-fenced funding in the recovery package, it is clear that those economic ecosystems, such as transport and tourism, will be able to benefit from several funding opportunities. i therefore seek your support in adopting this package swiftly. it provides a unique window of opportunity for funding in transport, tourism, automotive, aeronautics, and ship manufacturing, as well as all other industries needed to ensure sustainable, resilient and affordable connectivity for 2020 and beyond. i will devote all my efforts in convincing member states and private stakeholders in using the eu instruments available, to increase liquidity and to get firmly on a recovery path. the commission’s proposed recovery package to kick-start the european economy contains an array of opportunities for transport under the eur 1.1 thousand billion mff and the eur 750 billion in the next generation eu programme. the recovery package includes a reinforced budget for the connecting europe facility, with an additional eur 1.5 billion for the general envelope to stimulate further infrastructure investment. it will accelerate the completion of the core ten-t network due by 2030. it will stimulate the digital and green transition with clear priority given to the most decarbonised modes, rail and inland navigation, and it will accelerate the deployment of clean technologies such as alternative fuel infrastructure, in line with our green deal agenda. we are also proposing an enhanced investeu with an increased budget of eur 31.6 billion. this will include a new strategic investment facility, the investeu’s fifth window to support critical infrastructure and the development of resilient value chains, including for new clean technologies that are essential for the transport sector. in addition, the sustainable infrastructure window has almost doubled in size in our proposal and now has a eur 20 billion guarantee which can stimulate private investment in sustainable transport infrastructure and fleet renewal. with a total budget of eur 560 billion the recovery and resilience facility can benefit all sectors of the economy, including transport. member states will submit their plans — recovery and resilience plans — by april next year in order to receive grants or loans. i am sure that investment in sustainable transport systems will be high on the recovery agenda of member states, as this is mentioned in almost all country reports of the eu semester on which the national plans will have to be based. of course there is also the solvency support instrument under the european fund for strategic investment with eur 26 billion which can mobilise additional private capital to support eligible companies in the sectors most impacted by the coronavirus. all these instruments will continue to support our priorities of sustainability and digitalisation — the focus of our upcoming strategy in transport communication. the coronavirus changed a lot, but not the need for smarter sustainable mobility. 80% of the cef budget for transport is already contributing to climate action. for the entire mff and the next generation eu we propose an overall target of 25% climate mainstreaming. for transport it could be even higher. i would like to conclude by commending you for the european parliament resolution highlighting many of the challenges and solutions taken. as we look forward, we are of course learning lessons from our experiences over the last few months. the situation was unprecedented, and i would dare to say that we are now wiser and better prepared. i am looking forward to your questions and comments. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the tourism sector, without a doubt, and the transport sector have been the sectors most punished by the pandemic: a third of humanity in confinement, air traffic below 90%, tourist activity practically zero. the tourism sector is the pillar of our economic growth. in fact, it has been the most powerful ally of the european economy. europe is the number one tourist destination in the world. tourism is much more than leisure; it is about cohesion, solidarity, culture, backbone and future. a european response is therefore urgently needed. the european people's group, and the spanish group in particular, wanted to be the driving force behind the response. and that is why we are asking, firstly, for it to be a priority in the recovery plan and, secondly, for a clear road map. we need certainty, we need coordination and we need security. we need security in health protocols and also security protocols - that they be common; that european measures be recognised by each other - we need help for smes, because the productive fabric of tourism is made up of more than 90% smes; we need connectivity - getting connectivity back on track for the balearic islands or the canary islands, for the outermost regions, is key. and we also need a strategy for the future of european tourism. we're calling for action. we cannot lose a minute, because the future of europe is at stake. there is no solidarity. europe does not exist without solidarity, but neither would europe exist without tourism.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president! as a social democrat representative of 27 million, including more than 500,000 hungarian workers, i speak to you now on behalf of them. yes, the cellar of the balaton winery, the receptionist of the budapest hotel, the maltese tour operator, but also the stewardess of the german airline, asking what you are doing for us specifically. because, until now, tourism has been seen by national governments as a tree that bears fruit forever. they didn't want to feed it, they thought in their natural way that tax revenue would always come in, jobs would always be created. now we can all see how wrong that is. therefore, the social democratic group demands that immediate assistance be given, and with concrete means, from the reconstruction plan. we need a crisis management mechanism that we can put in place at any time in the long term if we find ourselves in a similar situation. we need a european passenger guarantee system and, very importantly, we need a new european tourism strategy that is sustainable and smart in the long term. we have proposed that the profession, employers and workers should be given a breathing gas and then a sustainable, smart plan should be put in place to ensure that european tourism always pays off.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. following the covid-19 lockdown, we must ensure a safe, sustainable and coordinated reopening of the tourism and transport sectors. i welcome the commission's guidelines and recommendations in this respect. let us also look ahead to prepare ourselves for the transport and tourism we want in the future. the climate crisis will not go away with the end of the pandemic, and the transport and tourism sectors must do their part to reduce our ecological footprint. the crisis has taught us that societies and individuals can change their habits drastically. we stayed home, stopped flying, and started cycling more and walking more. we now have a unique opportunity to re-imagine the concept of tourism and invest in sustainable modes of transport such as the train - particularly night trains - and the bicycle and its associated infrastructure. it is also an opportunity to promote agro-ecology and the development of rural areas in the tourist sense. i am calling for a plan for sustainable tourism in europe and thus a win-win-win situation: good working conditions, full cash for the providers, a healthy environment and thus a safe travel experience for the travellers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. few industries have suffered as much as transportation and tourism as a result of this crisis. overnight, companies operating in these sectors simply had to shut down completely. rebuilding their capacity will take years and will require a huge organisational and financial effort, which today rests primarily with the member states. therefore, the guidelines published by the commission are not enough. we need real support that is not burdened with impossible climate targets. the implementation of new legislation, such as the extremely costly and harmful mobility package, should be suspended. the commission should also review the provisions which may constitute an additional burden in these exceptional circumstances. fifteen member states have taken the right direction in their appeals on air travel vouchers. it is a pity that the commission has ignored reasonable arguments on this point.
we are in the midst of the covid crisis and transport has problems, but transport is the solution as well. why should we go for an hsprn – a high-speed passenger rail network – connecting all major cities in the european union amidst a covid-19 crisis? because public spending makes sense to combat the economic crisis. it is logical, because to invest in a green project for a sustainable future that is beneficial for all makes sense; because infrastructure investment is needed for economic growth; because future generations would like to know where the money we are spending today went. that is why we need an ambitious, tangible programme with a budget that makes it possible. that is why we should go for an hsprn – a high-speed passenger rail network.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for this debate. it is a debate which gives us the opportunity to work on a resolution which, as my colleagues have said and repeated many times, touches on a crucial point. the impact of the crisis has completely weakened the tourism sector. the tourism sector has one impressive feature: it is not a question of the commission's being too strict. tourism is intersecting transport, culture, economic development. there is one theme in particular - i will not repeat myself - that strikes me and which i believe should be the subject of attention and should be the subject of specific funding in the recovery fund, it would be a mistake not to provide for them: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's tourism sector is not left to the mercy of the market. a small company spends years training staff in the hotel and catering industry, which is now in danger of being lost. the social impact of this could be very serious, and we would all be paying for it, even culturally. we are taking action on this matter, and we are doing so promptly.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i do not think tourism is something the eu should really be involved in. tourism is often a national, regional and very often a local issue. i think we must realize that this summer, above all, will not be the tourist year it usually is. in sweden, for example, we have a government that has handled the pandemic so terribly badly that we are simply not welcome in some countries. swedes are not allowed in. so i think we have to realise that it will take time before we get back to the way tourism was before. we're not going to see the end of this pandemic for quite some time to come, i'm afraid. but tourism needs to be supported, helped, and this is best done by the governments of the various member states, not by the eu, which is eager to stick its fingers in just about everything that a nation state does better.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think the coronavirus crisis has clearly shown us our limits. it has shown us that this european union is not the union we want. but that means we have to work to make this european union better. we have 27 million people in the european union working in the tourism industry, and - you know the figures, commissioner - they generate 10.3% of european gdp. the total amount of the aid is estimated at eur 100 million. so we have to solve the problems of today, because the small businesses, the travel agencies and the service providers have liquidity problems, and those liquidity problems we have to address. we in the socialist group are proposing a european travel guarantee fund, which would cost some eur 5 to 7 billion. this is a small amount compared to the eur 32.9 billion that member states are currently spending to rescue airlines alone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. – mr president, well, thank you all very much for your comments. i think we are all on the same page here. we all recognise the importance of the sector of tourism and the sector of transport for all our economies. we are all worrying about how this is going to unfold in the future and how we are going to emerge from this crisis. i said in the beginning, i gave some hints, well, you know, i’m thinking, and i’m sure many of you are doing the same thing, that we need to develop a sort of an emergency plan so that next time if, god forbid such a thing will come again, we will be prepared, for the second one. and then we have to debate the lessons learned and i think this is also something very important that needs to be done very soon. we have to learn from the lessons that this crisis taught us in order to become better, and as has been said, it showed us our limits. but on the other hand, now we are talking about tourism because it’s been hit so hard. it’s true that it’s a long debate on subsidiarities and what each of the member states of the european union should deal with and what is the degree of implication. of course, usually, when problems occur, everyone is looking towards brussels and i would really have wished that we would have had the money to step in, but we didn’t have the money, at european level, to step in for the liquidity crisis. so we had to ask the member states. we put forward this flexible framework for state aid, to step in and help with liquidity. we had to protect the consumers while we were helping the companies with liquidity. i heard several of you - and this is a floating idea going around - because it is a lesson learned, that what you do with the liquidity issue - if a huge amount of reimbursement or compensation would be asked for in case of cancellation. and i know there is this idea of a european fund. but it has to be in a budget and of course if the member states would like to put money together for such a fund that’s one thing, on the other hand, with all the complicated discussions we have with the budget, with the mff and everything, i haven’t seen any true appetite for creating new things at the european level. we have to admit the fact that there are several - at national level - several schemes of guaranteeing these kind of packages and i think that here, this can be shared, and lessons learned by member states should include also the fact that we cannot live without having a fund to guarantee all of this, or else it won’t work and the liquidity problem will be very difficult to solve. there are, and probably you are right, we are thinking about this, that by using state aid, it might create disparities or imbalances in the competition in the market because of some member states having a larger fiscal capacity to step in and help companies, others less. then we feared creating an unbalanced situation for the future. but that’s why, for example, we imagine that we proposed the solvency instrument, which would be aimed through the european investment fund, especially to step in and help, including by buying equity, those companies which were less helped and they would be in need of better help at the european level because they didn’t receive it at the national level. so, we are advanced and we are engaged with the european financial institutions, with the eib, to map and see how all the instruments we have put in place, which is quite an exhaustive list, can be used for various situations. but anyway, our aim is to support those who are not helped and there are viable companies to be helped through this financial instrument at european level. transport workers are critical and i think from the very beginning, from the very first guidelines we put forward, we stressed the importance of them being treated as critical workers. so that’s why we didn’t have them put in quarantine when they’re crossing the border or one or the other. we, in all the guidelines we had for each mode, we insisted on the protective measures to be taken, especially for workers in transport. and i think this is the same for tourism and for the hospitality industry, because if the workers are getting sick or if they are not protected, it makes it a no-brainer. so, i think everyone started that. we have to have them safe in order to have them providing services. so this is something i’m totally supporting. for small and medium-sized enterprises, we had put very quickly in place some instruments - by my colleagues, of course, in the commission. for example, we have the sure programme, which is an instrument to support, especially jobs. we put in eur 100 billion in loans for sure, especially to support short-time work schemes and to help the member states to protect the jobs, the employees and the self-employed against the risk of dismissal and loss of income. is it enough? i don’t know. we are of course in a continuous process of evaluating how all these proposals we have had are actually working. and also, the idea behind the creation of the next generation eu fund is especially for the recovery, it is foreseen for recovery. we have been thinking of front-loading a lot of money at the beginning of next year or so from the mff. so this will be an injection of capital and funds, which would translate ultimately into jobs and profitability for the companies in economic sectors. i think this would cover more or less some of the issues you have raised. of course, we would love to see simplified procedures. there are also messages from you, which i will take to my colleagues in the college, so that we can further reflect on the situation. while we are talking about the future, you will receive our strategy; you will see that we are aiming at putting it to consultation. by the end of the year, you will receive our strategy for sustainable and smart transport. i would add also resilient. so that will be a great opportunity for us to look to the future. but the future cannot be but sustainable and smart. so also when we are talking about tourism, i think, for tourism itself, the future has to be sustainable, and this is a debate we will have to have, because i don’t want to forget about that. there are also lots of schemes at regional level for tourism - because we saw, in relation to the situation with the crisis, it has a footprint, which is regional and the necessities and challenges are different from one region to another. so, through the regional funds, i know that financing was made available. finally, let’s not forget that this is a health crisis. this is a health crisis. and the situation with the virus and the epidemiological situation is so different from one place to another. we need to trust. we need to make people understand that as long as we don’t have a vaccine or a viable treatment, there is a risk. and we have to continue to live with the virus. so this is the situation and a most unfortunate one. but we need to adapt and try to be safe and restart the connectivity and the services in tourism and in transport. thank you very much for having me this evening and i’m looking forward to our next encounter.
in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on thursday 18 june 2020 and the final vote on friday 19 june 2020. as we have already said, the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 9 a.m. on thursday. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the spread of covid-19 in the european union has led to a near collapse of the european tourism industry. therefore, support for entrepreneurs, in particular self-employed persons and small and medium-sized enterprises, is urgently needed to help them manage their liquidity, maintain their jobs and reduce unnecessary administrative burdens. thousands of businesses, especially smaller ones, are struggling to survive today, and many are struggling to pay their bills. we need help now. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. i believe that, in the light of the experience of recent months, a broad debate should be held on the european union's overall policy on tourism, which is a very important sector of the european economy.
in writing. – the covid-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on the tourism and travel sectors. travel restrictions have already distressed the entire tourism value chain and affected approximately 27 million employees. to counter the devastating impact of covid-19, we need to use the crisis as an opportunity to develop a comprehensive and future-proof european strategy that stabilises and rebuilds the sector and incorporates the european green deal. we must re—establish our citizens’ trust by ensuring consumer and passenger rights and protection. the european commission has already clarified the voluntary nature of travel vouchers, but enforcement and widespread communication of this rule is lacking. a european travel guarantee fund would address this issue by securing the financial liquidity of the tourism and travel sector while also guaranteeing consumer rights. further, the establishment of uniform eu health guidelines along with member state specific guidelines is vital for passenger protection. we must also develop a roadmap for sustainable tourism and travel by focusing on the creation of a non—toxic circular economy, urgently pushing the aviation and maritime industries to cut emissions, investing in digitalisation, and investing in sustainable tourism schemes for businesses – particularly smes, which must be guaranteed immediate access to liquidity and support.
in writing. – tourism is extremely important and member states are doing their best to help their companies, and small and family businesses. the eu must help and supplement these efforts, through the recovery programme. but true recovery can only happen if we rebuild the trust of travellers. to achieve this, coordination between the member states is key. the commission should facilitate this process, but it must remain within the remits of the national authorities to decide on lifting or introducing travel restrictions in view of their own assessment of the situation. there cannot be a one—size—fits—all solution, because it can backfire through an increasing number of infections. in the light of social distancing and lower capacities i am convinced that we must broaden the variety of european travel destinations. therefore, in the coming weeks we must promote a much wider range of cities and regions. i am counting on the commission to support such efforts. that would not only broaden the number of destinations and help the local hospitality sector, but it would make european tourism more sustainable and balanced, stopping over—tourism at certain locations.
in writing. the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic has affected all of us. the restrictions imposed by the quarantine, the travel ban and the resulting dramatic economic slowdown have contributed to the collapse of many transport and tourism companies. i would like to thank the european commission for a series of recommendations to enable the gradual and coordinated opening up of tourist services and facilities and transport services. it is important that the priority in the recovery of the european economy be to protect businesses and to promote jobs as actively as possible. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99% of all firms in europe, creating two thirds of all jobs. in this respect, more flexible administrative requirements and better access to financial support are needed, as these are the businesses that can boost european tourism. i would also like to call on the european commission to increase its support for the cultural and sport sectors, which play a vital role in the development of tourism. sport tourism is particularly popular, especially in the form of participation in major sporting events, which attracts fans and athletes even to the most remote regions.
in writing. the travel and tourism sector generates 3.9% of eu gdp and employs 5.1% of the total workforce, or about 11.9 million jobs. when combined with other sectors of the economy, these figures rise to 10.3% of gdp and 11.7% of total employment, representing 27.3 million workers. in poland, the transport sector accounts for about 15% of gdp. the transport and tourism sectors are the sectors most affected by the crisis caused by the coronavirus. the restrictions on movement and travel imposed following the pandemic have caused a 60% to 80% decrease in international arrivals. it is estimated that the decline in revenues for hotels and restaurants could be as high as 50%, for tour operators and travel agencies 70%, and for shipping lines and airlines 90%. the pandemic has put 6.4 million jobs at risk in the eu. businesses are struggling to survive. it is therefore essential to provide them with rapid special support by providing liquidity-providing credit lines and revolving loans to finance the payment of salaries. in the long term, however, measures are needed to ensure that tourists can travel to and within europe again. it is also necessary to maintain strategic transport infrastructure such as ports and railways to protect them from foreign takeovers. the amendment of the mobility package, whose provisions will further burden businesses, should also be rejected.
in writing. – there are many factors which influence the choice of a holiday destination. among them, very importantly, cultural heritage. sixty-eight percent of europeans point to this factor. cultural tourism accounts for forty percent of european tourism. european projects, such as the european capital of culture, provide a great drive for cultural tourism. the 2020 capitals - rijeka and galway - have sadly missed out in a special predicament, because of the pandemic. they need to rapidly adjust their programmes prepared for years in advance. a second wave or future virus could follow. we do not know if coronavirus will not come back with a second wave. or some other new virus. however, being prepared is crucial. we must have preparedness, action plans, contingency all in place in advance for projects such as the european capital of culture for the future. only in this way will we encourage future applicants for the title, among them the silesian city of katowice with the surrounding metropolis of zagłębie dąbrowskie and upper silesia. thank you very much!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i have to ask you, señor borrell, to give me a chance to speak. 20 years ago, the polish foreign minister and the us secretary of state launched the community of democracies in warsaw, a grand coalition of the world's democracies. on the 20th anniversary of the initiative, polish president andrzej duda was invited to the white house, the first european leader to visit the united states after the pandemic lockdown. the presidents will discuss, of course, bilateral relations, but also how to revive transatlantic cooperation. europe should work together for transatlantic cooperation not divide the community, not separate from the united states, not choose between the united states and china. together, we're facing the virus, the crisis, and the security challenges. i therefore appeal to you, señor borrell, and to your european external action service, to join the polish president in his efforts to revive transatlantic cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to thank the previous speaker, minister waszczykowski, for his approving reference to the community of democracy, a movement initiated by minister bronisław geremek and continued by me. i hope this means that the polish government will also stop breaking the rule of law and return to poland's role as an example of democratization for others to follow. and as far as the pandemic is concerned, i think the real realignment in the hierarchy of states is going to come from how we deal with the financial and economic crisis. the commission's proposals give us great hope that we will do better and that the union will be more cohesive. but at the same time, we will continue to pursue a policy of artificially low interest rates, which will increase inequality in our countries. so we have a great opportunity, but we also have a great threat. and i hope your staff will monitor these matters as well.
in writing. the situation surrounding the covid-19 pandemic is global and it is clear that the european union should be fully involved in both combating the effects of the virus now and countering its negative effects in the future. international solidarity calls us to support and help those countries which are in the most difficult situation, such as many countries on the african continent. we should do everything we can to counter the escalation of tensions between china and the united states. the eu should engage in a balanced way with these strategic partners. the current situation only underscores the importance of this cooperation. after all, we are facing global challenges! poland is setting an example of how best to build transatlantic cooperation. soon, polish president andrzej duda will travel to washington, as the first european leader to be invited to the white house after the lockdown to meet with the us president. there are many common challenges and many topics to discuss. let's build and cooperate instead of increasing antagonisms and escalating tensions.
madam president, i very much welcome the extra steps that the commission has taken, but i also think they’re somewhat cautious, preliminary, and i see them as first steps in a larger way that we can walk. i think there’s much more to be done, and i think the renew fraction is coming with new proposals in the next coming months. i think the proof of the pudding in countering disinformation is in the eating. now this week, a european ngo – eu disinfolab – actually meticulously disclosed a russian state-sponsored disinformation operation inside europe directed against europe. so now, what do we do? just imagine, dear commissioners, if we would put the centre of gravity of this information operation on the eu sanction list, it would deprive them of hosting providers providing them with websites, it would deprive them of financial services, it would freeze assets of the people behind the information operations, and it would also restrict travel. so this is imposing costs on our adversaries. so if i look to the future of countering disinformation operations, i see it in this way. so please join us in the future, not just looking at the symptoms, but also at the root cause of it all.
madam president, the european union is certainly not ashamed to dare to speak about the disinformation that allegedly existed on the part of private or foreign interests during the pandemic. it has among its council members an expert in disinformation and falsehoods, in the person of emmanuel macron. he was the one who scorned our group when we called for the borders to be closed on 24 january on the basis of the precautionary principle. his government told us: "the virus has no passport". he was the one who, in order to hide the shortage of masks in france, explained that wearing masks was useless. what a tragedy, when we know that our elders were abandoned for lack of protective equipment and that the first mass order registered by the french government dates only from 5 march. finally, it is through the voice of his health minister that he declares that mass testing is not useful either, hiding the shortage of tests. that's a lot of state lies from people who should be exemplary. lies that have had tragic consequences and for which we will have to answer. so, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council and the commission, spare us your moral lessons on disinformation when you yourself are a sad example.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! of course, misinformation is not a new phenomenon, and it didn't start until the day before yesterday, before the pandemic. she's been around a long time. but now, with advanced technology and methods available, it has become very dangerous indeed. today we are discussing disinformation in parliament, and yesterday the european parliament rejected a request to waive guy verhofstadt's immunity. is this the way the european parliament is fighting disinformation? yesterday's speech really showed that it is possible to spread lies and hatred in public, even in the european parliament. the same member of parliament insulted thousands of poles on our national holiday, saying that in poland thousands of fascists and white supremacists marched 300 kilometers from auschwitz-birkenau. ladies and gentlemen, this is proof that the european parliament is itself becoming a source of disinformation and fake news. since poland has a painful history, please forgive my emotions, i am deeply moved.... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, masks are important only for the sick and the healthcare workers, masks are for protecting themselves and others, there is no clear evidence of person-to-person transmission, moderate risk, high risk, severe illness, it is not recommended to limit travel and movement, transmission from asymptomatic cases is rare, surveillance of asymptomatic cases, and i could go on. which of these statements can be labeled as disinformation? the source is always the same, it's the who. during this pandemic, the publicly trusted bodies have said everything and the opposite of everything. today we think only about fake news spread via the web, but we can also think about so-called official communication. the lack of a central management of the crisis and the attempt to demonize my country, which, with courageous choices, was the first in europe to fight the virus. it's very serious. i have a proposal, commissioners: we help citizens to have tools for critical source analysis and safeguard access to information and freedom of expression. we make projects like media literacy for all a permanent programme, so that we can always promote media literacy and information culture ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have seen a continuous campaign of disinformation on the question of the covid epidemic, we have seen fake news of all kinds circulating and we have seen an effort to pit europeans against each other, to ridicule europe's commitment. we finally have an opportunity now, with this commitment of the european parliament to launch a special committee to fight disinformation and fake news. it will be adopted in the next few days to combat those who want to divide europe, for interests that we know come from far away. we have seen in recent months, in recent years, investigative journalism and judicial investigations that have investigated the circulation of money and the support of a false right, the false right to amplification in payment of one's own propaganda. we need to defend freedom of expression, but we also need to defend freedom of information and to defend our democracy, a fragile asset that must be defended by all institutions.
madam president! thank you for your vote. i would also like to thank vice-president jurova for her information on the european commission's work in this area. the pandemic of disinformation is one of the greatest threats to democracy and the european union today. the coronavirus pandemic has reminded us that reliable information can save lives, and fake news and heats can kill. today, disinformation is used to gain and maintain power in many places around the world, including the european union. we are witnessing the impotent annulment of democracy. the power of the internet is demonstrated by the devastating power of misinformation, which spreads faster than a virus. we must support true freedom of speech, but remember that freedom of speech used for disinformation is the antithesis of freedom. elections based on falsehoods will never be democratic. freedom cannot be used to enslave. we need to be resistant to misinformation. we need to educate them to critically analyze the message from a very young age. the remedy to misinformation must be to increase media independence and pluralism, support journalists and general access to reliable information.
madam president, mr high representative, madam vice-president, we all know that a simple lie that reassures is better than a complicated truth that bothers. and that's the world we live in now, with social media actually amplifying, allowing us to go much faster on this misinformation, on these lies. we must fight these practices effectively, as you both said, and you said it very well. you said it, mrs jourová, and we know it, you come from a world that has been totalitarian, you come from a world where censorship has governed people's lives. we must not fall into that world and that is the first pitfall. but i would draw your attention and the commission's attention to a second pitfall: we must also be careful. let us not be naive, we know that foreign powers are attacking us, we also know that they have relays inside our democracy and that illiberal democracies are developing there and that extremists are also carrying these lies. so let us be careful not to fall into the trap of blaming and putting on the clothes of our opponents, but at the same time let us not blindly trust the market. we've seen, and i'll end with this, that for the same facts of misinformation, and you've targeted it, google will ban, twitter will let but explain and facebook will totally let freedom in the name of a freedom of expression. so we cannot trust the simple rules of the market either. we will regulate and we will be at your side. thank you, mr high representative, thank you, madam vice-president.
i have to say, madam president, a person sees a and this is important: nothing is completely wrong and nothing is completely right. i'd like to share with you a quote from eugene roth. but the second thing i want to bring to your attention is a very massive case of disinformation. i would ask the commission and the council to look into this too, if they are so committed. this case is remarkable because it concerns a government of a member state. specifically, it's the austrian federal government, where, for example, the chancellor said in a speech at the beginning of this covid crisis, "soon, everyone will know someone who has died of corona". this is a special announcement by a federal chancellor who is spreading fear among his own people. the second case is that of the minister of health anschober who qualifies as a minister of health by being a teacher who has informed people by a decree this is now the famous easter decree that they are not allowed to meet in private with their families during easter. that's not the truth either. that was not in that decree, that was not in that decree. i would therefore ask you to investigate and prosecute these two massive disinformation events in one member state.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! disinformation is one of the most powerful weapons in the modern arsenal of asymmetric warfare. it's a great way to build internal tension, chaos, fear in an enemy country. fake news feeds on ignorance, half-truths, lack of transparency, lack of proper reporting. and what's important in all of this is the decline of the press, the printed press, but also the power of social media. so the best way to fight disinformation is to be open, to be verifiable, and to be good at working together - our good at working together. so many truths, half-truths, lies, false information that fell on poland, hungary that were never checked, but only duplicated and repeated this is precisely disinformation. and then the consequences are disastrous for the european union, for its image. consultation, clear and efficient information and a verification mechanism are the most important tools to combat disinformation. and it shouldn't be restricting the internet in the first place.
in writing. the european union's response to the coronavirus crisis leaves much to be desired. disinformation and obstruction of reliable information have also emerged in the information space around the pandemic. this shows the importance of building a community's resilience to false narratives in the fight against misinformation. in this context, it is worth recalling the historical policy and misinformation in this area. in may of this year, the russian party of the family submitted a bill to the state duma of the russian federation to repeal the resolution condemning the molotov-ribbentrop pact on the political and legal evaluation of the soviet-german non-aggression treaty of 1939 adopted on 24 december 1989. this is not the first time russia has shown an interest in discarding its part in world war ii. one element of this narrative is the blame for the outbreak of world war ii against germany on all fronts, poland, which suffered the largest percentage of population losses (per thousand inhabitants lost 220 people). the ep should remain committed to opposing russia's attempts to falsify european history. the initiative of lithuanian mep minister rasa juknevičienė to set up a working group on european historical memory should therefore be supported. the aim of the group's work should be to defend historical truth, to cultivate historical memory of the crimes of totalitarian regimes in europe, both hitlerite and communist.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. border and seasonal workers have been particularly affected by the coronavirus. with borders closed, quarantines in place, and sometimes no re-entry, they have been left without health care and livelihoods, putting them at greater risk of disease. they are also more dependent on employers and temporary employment agencies than others. their accommodations are bad. they work in difficult conditions and often suffer from cross-border and seasonal violations of workers' rights in terms of working hours, minimum wages, safety and health standards. this shows the problems faced by seasonal workers, mostly from eastern europe. the pandemic has also shown how much needed and undervalued workers are, and how many sectors depend on them. it's time to recognize them, to improve the image of this work, and to propose solutions that will reduce the scale of abuses that have already occurred due to the pandemic. what does the european commission have to say on this matter... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the pandemic has sharpened, sometimes tragically, what the european parliament has been talking about for a very long time. it changes, of course, systematically, but where it was bad, it was worse. it's a great opportunity to analyze, draw conclusions and make recommendations. at the same time, we, the members of the european parliament, should make a commitment to work together with our colleagues in the member states - because it is the member states that are responsible, among other things, for controlling companies that do not properly protect workers - to solve problems together. i hope that the german presidency will have on its agenda this kind of meeting of family ministers, so that it can examine, analyse and present to us a report which will be the result of reflection on all that has happened in recent times.
mr president, i have already spoken in this chamber about the need to protect the rights of frontier workers. during the session, we will vote on a very important resolution regarding their rights, the rights of cross-border and seasonal workers as well. by the way, i was one of them, for almost five years. it is a good step, a step in the right direction. what must follow is concrete action by both the european union and the member states, both legislative and non-legislative, and particularly the provision of crucial information. during the current crisis, they have failed to do so. to help frontier workers from my region in silesia i had to open a cross-border information point in my office, simply because the public authorities were not there. this is not right. societies are resilient, but far more so when properly informed. public authorities must provide accurate up to date and comprehensive information as a human right.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis has highlighted the already catastrophic working and living conditions of many workers. this is particularly true of seasonal and temporary workers such as harvest workers and other crossborder workers such as nurses. it is not acceptable that low prices should be more valuable than the health and dignity of the people who harvest vegetables or work in the slaughterhouse. we must finally create better working conditions through increased controls, common european minimum standards and a european social security number. quality work and fair pay must also play an important role in the eu commission's long-term plans. a social europe must look to all workers, regardless of their origin. it is high time that we put an end to the exploitation of seasonal workers and give the system operators not only respect and applause, but above all a good wage and decent working conditions!
i now come to the announcement of the results of the second round of voting we have held. (the president declared the results of the second part-session.) we now move to the third part-session, but before we begin i would like to give the floor to our colleague, mr hohlmeier, who has asked for his opinion on the motion for a resolution on the reopening of the judicial proceedings against the prime minister of the czech republic for misuse of european union funds and potential conflicts of interest (2019/2987 ((rsp)) (b9-0192/2020).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we shall shortly be voting on the motion for a resolution on the reopening of the investigation into the prime minister of the czech republic for the misuse of eu funds and potential conflicts of interest. this request was drawn up by the various political groups and is based, among other things, on the findings of the cont mission to the czech republic. there, our concerns were reinforced that there is no functioning system in the czech republic for preventing and detecting conflicts of interest. systematic or systemic lack of transparency and a wide-ranging division of responsibilities make effective control and prevention of conflicts of interest extremely difficult. in addition, the supreme audit authority appears to be severely restricted in its work. freedom of the media is becoming increasingly problematic and pressure is being put on officials. the core message of the motion for a resolution is that if a serious conflict of interest is confirmed, it must be resolved immediately. there are basically three ways of doing this: eliminating the economic interest, ending the subsidy or refraining from decisions which may in any way promote the conflict of interest. if this is not possible, the only consequence is that he resigns. i therefore recommend that all separate and distinct votes be cast with a 'plus' vote, so as not to weaken the clear message of the motion. eu subsidies are designed to benefit the vast majority of the population, not to enrich individual oligarchs.
we are now in a position to begin the third round of voting today. this voting period is therefore open and will continue until 7.45 p.m. the vote shall be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous votes. the results of this third round of voting will be announced at 10.15 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 6.38 p.m.)
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the amazon is a rainforest without equal. it plays a unique role for the health of our planet, our diversity and our climate. it is also essential for the indigenous people that call it home and depend on it for their livelihoods and their traditional culture. the challenges that affect the amazon basin are complex, multi-faceted and require close regional cooperation among the countries that share it. the environmental dimension of these challenges is closely interconnected with fundamental socio-economic factors, as well as issues such as widespread poverty, corruption, human rights abuses, stability and security. territories of indigenous people and local communities in the amazon overlap to a very large degree with the world’s best-preserved biodiversity and ecosystems. the indigenous people and local communities have therefore to be part of the solution. tackling deforestation in the amazon is essential not only to fight global biodiversity loss and climate change, but also to achieve sustainable development and poverty eradication. in line with the ambitions set out in the european green deal and the new eu biodiversity strategy for 2030, the eu is fully committed to tackling deforestation. we are determined to take a leading role internationally and to use diplomacy, trade policy and development cooperation tools. at the global level, the eu will push for an ambitious post-2020 global biodiversity framework to ensure that by 2050 all of the world’s ecosystems, including forests, are restored, resilient and adequately protected. the global framework should include specific targets for halting the loss of primary forests and for preserving ecosystems’ health, in line with the proposals in the eu biodiversity strategy. we will continue to support action against deforestation and forest degradation as a part of the implementation of the paris agreement, including through continued commitment to raise the ambition of forest competence, of nationally determined contributions and continued support to the international initiative on reducing emissions for deforestation and forest degradation. with regard to eu policies, the commission is working on a series of actions to fight deforestation as a part of the follow-up to our communication on stepping-up eu action to protect and restore the world’s forests adopted in july 2019. as part of the follow up to last year’s communication, the commission will present in 2021 a legislative proposal and other measures to avoid or minimise the placing of products associated with deforestation on the eu market and to promote forest-friendly imports and value chains. we are currently conducting the related impact assessment. instruments could include voluntary commitment of the industry, mandatory labelling, due diligence, certification schemes, approaches similar to the eu system against illegal fishing, bilateral agreements or other measures. we very much welcome the european parliament’s engagement on deforestation and look forward to ms burkhardt’s draft legislative initiative report, which once adopted, we will evaluate carefully. to tackle the issue of deforestation, we also need to engage more with the private sector, especially with the eu, to get stronger commitments from their side on sustainable sourcing. as announced in the biodiversity strategy, the commission will also put forward a new initiative in 2021 on sustainable corporate governance. this initiative will address human rights, environmental duty of care and due diligence across sectors. other action taken by the commission includes the creation of a multi-stakeholder platform on deforestation, which will meet for the first time in october and of an eu observatory that will use the earth observation and trade data to facilitate information on global deforestation. the eu is determined to work in partnership with, and support efforts by partner countries in the amazon to tackle deforestation. human rights, including those of indigenous people, and local communities in the amazon, as well as environmental protection are at the core of the values underpinning the eu relations with third countries, including the countries of the amazon basin. therefore, these issues are systematically raised within our established mechanisms for political dialogue and cooperation. our dialogue is not limited to central government. we are also actively engaging with a broad range of stakeholders including sub-national local governance, judiciary authorities, civil society and progressive business associations. our dialogue is key to success. free trade agreements with countries in the region are another way to engage and promote cooperation on international commitments on climate and the environment in particular, in the context of their trade and sustainable development chapters. the eu is addressing the root causes of deforestation through our significant development assistance to forests, land use, sustainable livelihoods and indigenous people in the amazon basin, with a total of ongoing projects amounting to eur 166 million. protecting biodiversity and fighting deforestation requires protected areas and good governance. it also goes hand in hand with improving the livelihoods of local populations and respecting the rights of indigenous people. this integrated sustainable development approach is at the centre of our development cooperation policy. the commission supports the implementation of the ilo convention 169 on the indigenous and tribal people as well as the implementation of the un voluntary guidelines on governance of tenure of land and forests. finally, our human rights instruments have been mobilised on rights of indigenous people and of environmental defenders, unfortunately too often at stake in the amazon region. i look forward to working closely with you on this important issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, and thank you commissioner for your commitment to the future, but of course we have had this debate here in the chamber before. last summer we all watched as the amazon burned, and despite our lofty words and our concerns, nothing has changed. and that’s why we’re back here today talking about land—grabbing and deforestation. we cannot take our eyes off this subject. we’re very alarmed about the continued loss of forests in the amazon to commercial agriculture, logging and mining. we are alarmed at the proposed law to legalise land—grabbing by the brazilian government, which would further incentivise taking of public lands into private ownership and the destruction of more forest area. and i think we need to get into our heads the scale of this. you’re talking about an area of over 60 million hectares. we are working on a new climate law in this house with commitments on climate neutrality by 2050. we’re leading as we should. we’re ambitious and we want to lead the way. but we can’t do it on our own. covid-19 will see the world’s emissions of carbon dioxide fall by 7% this year. yet in brazil, we will see them rise by 10% because, and mainly due to, deforestation. ratification of the eu mercosur trade deal is still on the agenda. we continue to be concerned about the opening up of european markets to more beef and soya and its consequences for deforestation. despite being told by the commission that the deal will encourage brazil and the mercosur bloc to meet climate obligations, we remain sceptical. but people in glass houses should not throw too many stones. we are part of the problem. our own meat production demands protein for animal feed and it comes from brazil and other places. yet we have restricted the ability of our own grain growers to supply the market because of the rules we have imposed but have no control over what comes into europe. my last remark is as follows: i hope that the eu farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, and more importantly the review of eu trade policy just launched, will look closely at the complexity of our supply chains and the absolute contradiction between our agriculture, environment, trade and climate policy. we’ve got to do that now commissioner.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i welcome the commissioner’s introduction and i have to say that i do not doubt the intentions of this commission to tackle climate and deforestation together. but, if we want to achieve our goals, and we know what our goals are, then the amazon is key in that fight. it’s the largest carbon sink on the planet, and the dramatic thing is, it is changing. if we do not act decisively, the amazon could be a net carbon emitter by 2030. can you imagine what the effect of that could be? so, the situation is really serious, and we have to act decisively on it and ensure that it is not hopeless. last year, as mentioned, we already discussed the wildfires in the amazon. well, let me tell you that, since then, the situation is getting worse every month and the fire season hasn’t even started. as mentioned earlier, 80% of deforestation is linked to agriculture and to consumption in europe, so we do have a task ahead. we have an extremely vigilant task: the bolsonaro government is using the covid—19 crisis to push through further deregulation on environmental policy. we already know that the government blocked 30% of the national environment agency’s budget for fire prevention. we also know that the bolsonaro administration has fired most of the directors of the environmental institute controlling illegal logging. we know that they fired the head of brazil’s space agency, which collects data on forests. and today, using the covid crisis to recognise land grabbing is simply unacceptable. exactly one year ago, the european commission signed an agreement with the mercosur countries on free trade with the inclusion of a so—called binding sustainable chapter. and, as you mentioned, the commission always argues that that chapter is our safeguard for the preservation of the amazon. can we still believe that? that a year after the signing off, the situation is getting worse and worse. so this parliament needs to ask for real safeguards on the preservation of the amazon and that will be key in the discussion on the free trade agreement. let me be clear: no free trade without good climate action. if the world wants to be a partner in trade with us, it needs to be a partner in climate action. and that is for us, the s&d, key for the discussions in the future and the policy of the future, let me be extremely clear on that.
, on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen, i can hardly imagine a more inopportune time for this debate. the european continent is shaken by protests, millions of europeans have lost their jobs, shop vandals are looting, destroying and rewriting european history, and at this moment the european parliament is debating the amazon rainforest. ladies and gentlemen, a brief geographical reminder: the amazon river does not pass through any of the member states in which your constituents and the people who support this institution with their taxes live. it's hard to find a more accurate measure of worthlessness and uselessness. more bizarre would be a debate about the lack of water on mars, but i'm afraid to bring it up because i might have to see it on the next agenda. moreover, this house is talking about ecology and clean air when it votes and will vote for thousands of empty lorries to be driven around europe and pollute the air of europeans. what a fat mouth, what a nerve. this room may decide to keep europe's air clean, but under pressure from the epp, the s&d, renew, because of the party mother-centres, they vote - they close their ears and vote - for the air to be dirty, and now they sit down to teach other countries on other continents how to protect their air. very curious, my lord. if this room votes for air pollution, it should be silent on the amazon and other such issues. and one more thing, colleagues. again, we heard even here in the jungles of the amazon, again we heard about colonialism, about paternalism, about white european privilege, about having to apologize, about having historical guilt. ladies and gentlemen, if you think that apologizing, kneeling, humiliating, self-pitying, auto-racialism will win you more votes, you are deeply mistaken. if you think that by justifying the riots and the barbarism, you'll get support, no, you're wrong. when they're done with the stores, when they're done with the perfumes, they'll come for you, as the story goes. that's how every revolution starts, with the red flag, the sickle and the hammer. first he beats, then he robs shops, then he comes for private property. look at bolshevik russia, look at the history of the occupation of eastern europe, including my country. so don't lie to yourself. you will not get more votes, you will only get barbarism and the erasure of history. but i don't mind that. if you want to apologize, apologize. anyone who has any doubts or shame about their colonial past, please apologize. but, gentlemen, please don't waste your time. don't expect us to apologize for something we didn't do. the bulgarian does not kneel, the bulgarian does not humble himself, the bulgarian does not beg for mercy when a robber, a slave or a barbarian comes to the door. when this happens, we bulgarians stand firm on our feet and with a strong right hand defend our home, our fatherland, our culture, our family and our homeland. that's what we do, so i wish you success in protecting the amazon rainforest. it is an epic debate of planetary importance. when the next one comes about the need for more carlson's with fins in the european union or the need for more windmill battles on don quixote, call me, i'll come, we'll debate and we'll talk about all these things.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/91 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). the corona crisis seems to have put her in the background, but the rainforest crisis is still going on. in fact, she's gotten a lot worse. the amazon is of enormous importance for biodiversity and is crucial for the climate and for the people and animals that live there. yet the amazon is being destroyed and cut down at a rapid pace with the help of the european union. and with unacceptable human rights violations on the rise, to fill our fuel tanks, but above all to satisfy our hunger for cheap animal feed and cheap meat. each year europe imports about 1.5 million tonnes of soya and 140 000 tonnes of beef from brazil. this import will increase even more if europe continues to implement the mercosur trade agreement! if we want to save the amazon and really stop the global loss of biodiversity, then we have to act on that. commissioner, you cannot succeed with your biodiversity strategy if your colleagues are simultaneously pursuing the old european trade policy and the old agricultural policy. if you are in favour of a strong climate and biodiversity policy and sustainable food production, are you also prepared to say no to destructive trade agreements such as mercosur, the import of soya for animal feed, the spending of billions on environmentally and climate-damaging subsidies for the livestock industry, including the promotion of meat? because eating less meat is not only good for the amazon, but also for animal welfare. and speaking of animal welfare, this parliament has the opportunity to do something about it at this very moment. i call on my colleagues to vote against the establishment of the committee of inquiry into animal transport, so that the structural and serious abuses in animal transport can finally be thoroughly investigated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an investigation by the ngo animal equality has shown the link between deforestation in the amazon and the creation of large farms of cattle for slaughter, observing that almost 6 000 square kilometres of rainforest, the equivalent of 60 football fields every hour, have been razed to the ground. another recent greenpeace report, entitled "forests at slaughter", says that the european union's consumption is linked to 10% of global deforestation. european citizens are so unwittingly complicit in the destruction of valuable ecosystems for the planet, such as the amazon. i regret to note that while the commission is announcing a legislative proposal to ensure that products distributed on the european market are not linked to deforestation, it has also continued negotiations on the trade agreement between the european union and mercosur, ignoring the legal obligation to ensure that the agreement does not lead to social, economic and environmental degradation and violation of human rights. the commission must tell us how it intends to reflect in practical terms the commitments it has made to protect ecosystems and combat deforestation in trade agreements.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! deforestation in the amazon is a constant focus of our concern and debate. the last time we talked about this was last september, when we were thinking about how to stop the fires in the rainforest, which is called the lungs of the world and is the largest center of biodiversity. as in september, the commission is listing trade agreements with mercosur countries as part of diplomatic measures that could be used to enforce compliance with the paris agreement and stop deforestation in the amazon. commissioner, you are right when you say that stopping deforestation in the amazon is in line with the objectives of the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy. but remember that if europe is to be competitive in the green deal, it must demand similar standards from its trading partners. it's about meeting the climate and sustainability criteria, where in the negotiations, alongside the trade agreement, we can also use the carbon border adjustment mechanism. but it also means meeting the equivalent european criteria of animal welfare or food safety that a french, german or polish farmer must meet. we must stop deforestation in the amazon, but we cannot do so at the expense of allowing unfair competition in agriculture to enter europe and endangering the health of europeans by allowing food of unverifiable quality to enter the market.
madam president! i'm not going to let you down. the next few days are going to be challenging. we talk a lot today about the economy, about the recovery plan, about the billions that should help us out of the crisis. some even say that this is a 'second marshall plan' for our european community. but we also need to talk about democracy. we also need a marshall plan to rebuild democracy and protect the values that are the foundation of our community. and here is a word: solidarity. solidarity is the guarantee of security. solidarity every child in poland knows it: it is a slogan that says that there is no freedom without solidarity, that it is the defense of everyone by everyone. and that's our common interest, even those who don't feel the word and don't understand it. europe must emerge from the current crisis stronger and more united.
madam president, i’m not sure if we are still allowed to say this in the ‘me too’ era, but i would like to say to the chancellor that for me, madam, you are one of the only politicians that has the balls to take decisions. (scattered applause and laughter)you showed courage when you decided to help greece – courage, because your own minister of finance was against it. you showed the right moral compass during the migration crisis, the right compass, even when your own public opinion was against it, and again, during this crisis, we really count on your leadership to guide europe. the proposal of the commission, inspired by our resolution and the french-german proposal, is the right thing to do. push it through! finally, i would like to urge you to take one other important decision – go for a new strategy with china. china’s crackdown on human rights in hong kong needs to be on the agenda. we defend human rights and the rule of law. we must start to confront china with this. good luck and you can count on us. we will be with you.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the debate shows how much hope lies on the shoulders of the german presidency. i think it is right that the right steps have been taken and the first signs in the last weeks and months give hope that we can tackle this together. social democrats in germany have always insisted that there be solidarity, solidarity and renewal. we've cut off a lot of old threads, we've left red lines, and we've broken taboos that were backwards and out of date. that's good. but it has to go on. there must be a social and ecological renewal, because we need a strong europe in a troubled world. the signs of the times in new york are collected these days: the world is being thrown backwards by corona. only if we rebuild europe in the spirit of social and ecological renewal will we be able to make our contribution in the world. one final word on the rule of law debate: when we talk to our scandinavian friends, we will see how many concerns there are about the abuse by mr orbán and others. they don't want the oligarchs to be pocketed. then give the money to the mayors, to the small and mediumsized enterprises, who know what they are doing with it and who are doing a decent job!
madam president, madam chancellor, on 15 may the european parliament adopted by a large majority a strong resolution on the recovery plan. on 18 may you launched an initiative with president emmanuel macron, which was then strongly supported by president ursula von der leyen. madam chancellor, the speed with which this plan is being implemented is crucial. how will you ensure that there is a strong agreement in the council in ten days' time to help businesses and citizens recover from the crisis tomorrow? will you defend its financing through new own resources, as luis garicano has just proposed? and on the subject of the migration crisis, are you prepared to commit to a political agreement on the migration and asylum pact? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i would like to thank you for the truly dynamic european debate and i would like to thank you, madam chancellor, for your true european leadership. i think now it’s needed more than at any time in european history and i think that your decisiveness in presenting the franco-german proposal has opened the possibilities for the european commission to present to all of you the unprecedented proposal where we are looking at how we can best combine the next seven-year budget, the next multiannual financial framework (mff) with the next generation eu instrument. i will not go into detail because i think that the next debate will be very much focused on that and that we will also have a chance to debate it with the president of the european council, mr michel. so let me go a little bit in the other direction – into what else which will be so crucial to the german presidency. madam chancellor, i very much appreciate your strong words on european values, on the importance of solidarity, on underscoring how important fundamental rights are and the fact – which sometimes we forget in the heated debates we very often have in the council – that cohesion is the sustainable investment into the future and that the successful projects in our member states are making the whole european economy much stronger, much more resilient for the future. i think this is exactly what you need. i think you saw from the chamber how much your clear stance on fighting dangerous populism and hatred and the push for rule of law is appreciated by this house and by this chamber. i think that we both lived large parts of our lives under a regime where we were longing for freedom, longing for the possibility to travel across europe. therefore, maybe for us, it’s a little bit different when we talk about the importance of democracy, about sensitivity for freedoms, about the importance of the schengen system being restored as quickly as possible, because we know how it was when we didn’t have that opportunity. so, whatever happens next week, and of course we are all very hopeful and optimistic that we will clinch the historic deal for the european union, the german presidency will coincide with the fateful moment in this european debate and in our history. i think if the european council reaches an agreement, then the real work will start and we will have ahead of ourselves, together with you, a frantic semester of legislative activity to make sure that this investment can indeed re-energise europe and revitalise the european economy to make it greener, cleaner, more digital and more resilient. and, to answer to my good colleague, ismail ertug, i believe that batteries will also be very high on the list of priorities. to conclude, i would like to thank all of you for this very important debate and to thank chancellor merkel for a very ambitious programme for the next six months, which i know had to be adjusted because of the covid crisis realities. but i believe that today, and in the next week, we will reach a very important agreement which will open a new chapter in european history, a new chapter in european integration.
the president of the council. the commission is not yes, i just want to finish up with a quick word. i would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions. the question of defending the rule of law has just emerged again in the second round. we do this on the german side and we also mention the issues to our colleagues, even though it is about viktor orbán and we have differences of opinion about the developments in hungary. i believe that it is above all in the legitimate interest of parliament, but also of the european council, that the money should go where it is supposed to go: to the local level. we will of course monitor this together and attach great importance to it. i can also reassure those who say that we should not only make german-french proposals. we know that europe is made up of 27 member states, and yet the fact remains that when germany and france have very different opinions, europe is not usually making much progress. that is to say, one can do it, but never with the claim that a german-french proposal is now a european one, but then it must be worked on, and we will do that next week. i was glad that the subject of agriculture was raised again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but if we want to be an organic continent, we also have to have organic food production, and we have to have food production in our own country. that means we have to accept and acknowledge farmers in what they do, and at the same time push for better consideration of animal welfare, for the sustainable use of the land. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was glad that the subject of technology was brought up again, i mean, we can go into debt temporarily, we can start a fund-raiser. we must then arrange for the repayment and agree to it immediately. and whether we start in the next period or not, i think it is important to emphasize once again the credibility of repayment by starting to repay within the next seven years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so, on the one hand, we have to rely on new technologies, and i hope that we will be able to reflect this to some extent in the mff. it is a risk, of course, when we have the structural funds on the one hand and innovation spending on the other. but germany will also be in favour of strong funding for technology, especially as i very much welcome the fact that the commission has adopted the hydrogen strategy today. we have one in germany and many other member states have something like this. i think it is good that we have these european projects of strategic interest. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national quotas for the production of electricity. i would like to say to those who ask whether we want to renew europe: of course we must renew europe every day. the world is changing, and if we stand still, we'll fall back, that's for sure. the fact that we have taken the country-specific recommendations as a basis is not a coincidence! germany is also criticised there, and rightly so, because we must invest more in the future. we must all put on this, we must try to improve and use the funds of the fund for development to do so. this will not be the last meeting with the european parliament in these six months. i thank all those who have endured to the end and wish us a good cooperation.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. angela merkel is the best person to lead the european union out of the current crisis. he has not only been a good leader for germany, but for the whole of the european union. in the current crisis, germany is one of the few countries that is strong enough to be able to successfully manage to get out of the crisis by acting alone. angela merkel was expected to send a message that germany, europe's strongest economy, was ready to use its resources to support the development of the whole of europe. and that message came. angela merkel declared that germany was ready to show extraordinary solidarity. of course, this requires that all others contribute their share. the words together and together were used repeatedly by angela merkel. even a strong germany alone could not compete on equal terms with china and the united states. the most important thing, said angela merkel, is for europe to emerge from the crisis stronger and more united, and for europe to be innovative.
in writing. – i would like to warmly welcome german presidency and its ambitious programme for the next half a year. we live in unprecedented times, so we need unprecedented solutions. i am very pleased that the german presidency has devoted a lot of attention to social issues. in times of a real economic crisis, it should be our priority to protect citizens. we need horizontal remedies aimed at improving the situation of vulnerable people who suffered the most during the corona crisis. eliminating poverty, increasing access to the labour market and building high-quality, inclusive education systems should be in the centre of our agenda and the future mff will be a major contribution to this supporting recovery. but what ought to be highlighted is that the european parliament is still waiting for the council move on a number of issues: dublin iv, horizontal anti-discrimination directive and effective solutions in terms of the rule of law crisis. i hope the german presidency will be the one to address these issues promptly.
in writing. i would like to thank the chancellor for the programme of the german presidency. your presidency will be faced with the challenge of making tough decisions on the next multiannual financial framework and of focusing our efforts on the covid pandemic and its consequences. your speech sends a clear message that germany is committed to helping europe meet the enormous challenge of the pandemic and to building a greener, more innovative, more sustainable, more competitive and more digital europe. we all agree that the pandemic should not be used as an excuse to forget the principles of democracy. we also support the priority areas you have identified, but at the same time we must respond appropriately to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. germany expects a focus on support and funding for our people who have lost their jobs and income, a greater focus on the most vulnerable members of society and a much higher funding for social measures in the future financial perspective.
the german presidency of the council, which is now beginning, has a programme which is clear as to what germany expects from an integration process of which it is the first and foremost beneficiary. the most significant event of this presidency will probably be the adoption of the so-called recovery plan and the multiannual financial framework, the eu budget until 2027. as for the first, from which germany will receive substantially twice as much as portugal, this instrument is clearly insufficient in view of the existing investment needs. it is also significant that the german government has mobilised much more than it has proposed for the recovery fund to help 27 member states. the budget is expected to compromise the need for increased spending on economic and social cohesion. the enlargement and deepening of the single market, in a context of increasing inequalities between states, will create the conditions for even greater concentration of capital at european level. the so-called reindustrialisation and relocation of value chains cannot be done in the sole interest of the major european powers. on the contrary, it must take account above all of the interests and needs of countries, such as portugal, which are most affected by deindustrialization.
in writing. merkel walks into a hall of eunuchs who pay her homage in a servile way, oblivious to the dramatic situation in which europe finds itself, not only because of the coronavirus but because of too many years of wrong choices made by the chancellor. the usual platitudes, the usual rhetorical optimism about the eu's thaumaturgical properties, a disorganized attack on the populists and a little joke on orban to please the left and confirm the privileged axis with france. not a word about the ecb's role after the german court ruling, about the excess of state aid - still largely german - that is drugging the internal market, about the excessive trade surplus in breach of every treaty or the mountain of toxic derivatives in the bellies of german banks. nor is there anything about turkey's growing aggression in the mediterranean and china's aggression worldwide. as usual, the manoeuvreer maneuvers unmolested and the victims rise to applaud, becoming accomplices.
in writing. poland expects the german presidency to treat all eu member states equally. the presidency's agenda is centred around six themes, one of which is a fair europe. in poland, we are counting on justice above all. today we are being attacked relentlessly. we understand that everyone has the right to their own political sympathies, but we should not use the eu institutions, which should be above political divisions, for political battles. we do not want the union to go beyond its competence. we're counting on balance and fairness. the polish government will be very willing to cooperate, but we need the other side to be willing to cooperate. the threat of sanctions, the constant attacks, the creation of artificial problems and the destruction of my country's image must stop. poland sees its role in building a strong european position on the international stage, and wants a safe and innovative continent. but we have to build all of this on a partnership basis.
in writing. the motto of this presidency is 'together we will rebuild europe'. i hope that it will not be an empty slogan but will be translated into real action to bring europe out of the crisis. a properly functioning single market should be at the heart of the recovery of the european union's economy following the covid-19 pandemic. we should not only focus on restoring it to its proper functioning, but also on working to further strengthen and develop it. poland consistently supports the elimination of all administrative barriers and obstacles that restrict cross-border business activities. it is also necessary to ensure that existing rules are correctly implemented in the member states. we cannot use the pandemic to introduce protectionist measures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. when we talk about community in the fight against the effects of covid-19, we cannot put the interests of one over the interests of the other. the next issue is the european green deal. here too, the unequal treatment of member states in adapting to the 'energy revolution' is apparent. if we want to act and change effectively, we must do so with respect and understanding for all the actors in the european community.
in writing. the agenda for the german presidency of the council will be determined by the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic in europe. the most serious problem that will confront them will be the economic collapse. the weakening of member states' economies will increase competition from non-eu countries, which will be encouraged by falling share prices of european companies to make takeovers. the presidency will therefore need to build a majority for the commission's draft plan for europe's economic recovery and the budget for 2021-2027 to emerge from the crisis. the main challenges are: the issuance of common bonds backed by member states' contributions, the implementation of the european green deal, the union's digital sovereignty and european industrial policy. the search for compromise between member states may be helped by the fact that the german presidency of the council is linked to the status of the strongest eu economy and the largest contributor to the eu budget. on the other hand, the absence of such an agreement during the presidency of a country of such crucial importance to the union would indicate a serious structural crisis. in addition, the german presidency will be challenged by negotiations on the future relationship of the union with the united kingdom. the transition period for brexit will end on 31 december and, given the likelihood that the negotiations will not be extended, the german presidency will have the burden of proposing and concluding a final eu-uk compromise. all these problems are also compounded by the need to discuss the future of europe at the forthcoming conference.
in writing. chancellor angela merkel presented the priorities of the german presidency of the european council at today's plenary session of the european parliament. she said that europe should become 'greener, digital and competitive', and referred to the green deal, the legal framework for which is being developed by the envi committee. poland is in a difficult situation because its economy is based primarily on mineral deposits. the huge efforts of the government, local governments and energy companies include reducing co2 emissions and investing in renewable energy. an example is the energy and mining complex 'turów', which since the 1960s has responded to all the objections of its czech and german neighbours by adapting to new environmental conditions. the czech authorities have not provided any evidence that the concession was granted before the expiry of the concession period. a petition signed by 13,000 people from the liberec region against the closure of the "turów" mine has been submitted to the european parliament and is to be considered by the committee on petitions. i'm deeply concerned. the 'tours' complex, together with the cooperating companies, provides employment for about 15 000 inhabitants of the region. its abolition would mean a collapse of the region's labour market and dramatic social changes. workers, trade unionists, residents of poland, the czech republic and germany do not agree with the actions aimed at making it difficult for the company to work, so they have submitted about 30 thousand signatures to the committee on petitions in the european parliament, supporting the operation of the company.
in writing. international terrorism is one of the most serious threats facing us today. it's funded by money from illegal sources, mostly economic crimes. tax fraud is a huge problem on a global scale. this is an open door to terrorist financing! fighting the vat carousels is our duty and responsibility! the european union loses about 825 billion euros a year in back taxes, of which about 180 million euros go to criminals! that's why we fight the vat mafia so hard and with good results in poland. we have recovered 52 billion zlotys. according to the imf, poland is one of the countries with the lowest terrorism threat in europe. the effective fight against money laundering and terrorist financing must be based on solid cooperation both between eu countries and at global level. on the initiative of prime minister mateusz morawiecki, a meeting of representatives of 21 eu countries was organised to discuss enhanced cooperation in the fight against tax fraud. poland proposes to europe closer cooperation and experience in combating the vat mafia. money laundering is a risk to the eu's financial system. we support the commission's proposal to eliminate systemic weaknesses and to consolidate the legal framework. however, the creation of a new eu-level body to oversee national counterparts in addition to coordinating them requires further analysis.
mr president, madam commissioner, the pandemic has reminded us that health is a global public good that directly challenges our national security, but it has also taught us that it is necessary - but not sufficient - to have quality, universal and accessible national health services. we need to set up a genuine european health union including minimum standards and stress tests for national health systems; a european rapid response mechanism; strengthen our procurement mechanism and have a pharmaceutical strategy that ensures supply and production in europe; more funding for medical research, and ensure the principle of environmental, human and animal health. and most importantly, it's not enough to applaud healthcare professionals every day. we, the european institutions, have a responsibility and a duty to ensure that they have working conditions commensurate with the heroic effort they have made on this continent over the past few months. and that is what the european health union should be for.
member of the commission. – mr president, i listened to everybody’s input and comments very carefully, and i want to thank you for that. a great deal was said and i must say i share much of what was expressed. peter liese said that health threats do not stop at borders and i think that we have all been witness to this. he spoke of the situation that we had with ppe when we had the shortages, as many of you have also pointed out, and i wanted to just say here that in eu4health, as part of our crisis interventions, we have strategic stockpiles not only of ppe but also of medicines and vaccines that can be deployed to member states for any crisis when needed, because it does not mean that covid-19 will be the only crisis that we will be faced with. a number of you have said that no member state can cope with this on their own, and i think that we have all seen this. some of you have also mentioned the issue of subsidiarity, and i want here to be absolutely clear. even within article 168 as it stands now, there is a great deal that we can do. in eu4health all the actions that are promoted are within article 168, so there is a great deal that we can do and it is still a game changer for health within the eu. ms trillet-lenoir used the word tragedy. she said that and i immediately shared that feeling with her because for myself in the last five months, if i may say this, it has never been just about numbers, it has never been about waking up every day and being told about the numbers of new cases and the numbers who lost their lives because behind every number there is a story, there is a person. so yes, we have been seeing a lot of personal stories and tragedies in the last months and we need to do something. we have already mentioned that part of our vision and ambition is changing ecdc and ema and strengthening our agencies. as ms de sutter has said, prevention is part of eu4health – prevention, the issue of one health, the issue of looking at non-communicable diseases as well, and really stepping up on promotion and prevention and building up the resilience of health systems. these are part and parcel of the objectives of eu4health. ms konečná said that we have an unprecedented situation, and this is why we need an out-of-the-box and unprecedented solution. this is what eu4health is: an ambitious and innovative proposal that can be a paradigm shift within the eu. ms rondinelli said our european strategy is possibly too ambitious and not realistic. i agree with her that it is ambitious, she is right, but it is realistic and it has to be ambitious if we’re going to be able to make a difference to the lives of european citizens. it is a dedicated programme for the next seven years. you spoke of better coordination that we need at all levels and of course we must ensure that working together the european union remains as one of the healthiest regions of the world, so we need to look at it in that way and as a matter of protecting human and patients’ rights as you have said. you mentioned the budget. yes, we are aware that there are issues with this and we’re looking at it with our legal department, but we do depend on you to support the mmf so that we can move forward and, of course, next generation eu because only by doing this are we going to be able to move forward with programmes which are ambitious and innovative such as eu4health. last, but not least, mr lópez mentioned the issue of health systems’ resilience. this is included in eu4health, and i also want to tell you that the issue of stress tests are going to be included in next week’s communication. so all in all, you have touched on very many issues which are already in the programme. the way we are working as a commission, we are working very closely now going forward with the european vaccine strategy because we are very aware that the virus is still circulating amongst us and no one is safe until everyone is safe. so with that i want to thank you for your input in today’s debates and i look forward to really working very closely with the european parliament at all levels throughout this process of change that we need to do.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you for the inspiring debate. i can only agree with those of you who have just reiterated that the virus has no passport and no regard for national borders. in this respect, no one should be afraid of an ideologically charged debate on competences. nothing is taken from anyone. the opposite is true. in the face of this crisis, we all have a duty to make sure that we protect people better. in this sense, it is a question of recovering, through and with the european union, the capacity to shape the world, which the nation state no longer possesses in a globalised world in the face of a pandemic. what is our core business? i am grateful that we have reached a high degree of agreement here. firstly, the european union must help to build quality health care throughout the european union. secondly, we need more european sovereignty in the field of medicines and essential goods, less dependence on third countries. thirdly, we need more exchange and coordination. and because we were so scared at the beginning, it's important to learn from each other and learn with each other. it is also important that the institutions of the european union - the parliament, the council and the commission - send a clear message to citizens that hygiene and social distancing rules must be respected, especially as we are fighting for a europe of freedom, a europe without borders. and it is precisely in the holiday season, when many people are still worried about whether they can even travel, that it is more important than ever that we also send a clear signal here: no one has to be afraid, but we have to be vigilant. and then, of course, the point is that the vaccine that we hope to find soon -- that science, research hopefully finds soon -- is available to all people, and we're not excluding anyone here. it is also about fulfilling our responsibilities in the world and, above all, in our neighbourhood. i'm a little concerned that no one mentioned that. it has been said time and again that the european union is incapable of acting. we have provided eur 3.3 billion in support to the western balkans alone to combat the pandemic there as well, in a determined and far-reaching manner. so here too, solidarity is called for, not only within the european union but also with our neighbours. i would be very happy if we could reach an agreement quickly. the german presidency is very much prepared to do so within the limits of its possibilities. i look forward to further cooperation and a clear signal of unity and solidarity on this central issue, which continues to be a massive and demanding issue for people across the european union.
in writing. although the crisis caused by the spread of the coronavirus in europe is not yet over, it is time to draw the first lessons from the last months, in particular as regards the possibility of action by the european union. it is true that, under the eu treaties, it is primarily the member states that are responsible for defining health policy and for organising and providing health services and medical care. at the same time, however, the spread of a new infectious disease that by definition knows no borders has shown the need for a strong increase in european cooperation in the field of health, for example in the creation and mobilisation of strategic stocks of medicines and medical equipment. the same approach should be applied to vaccines and therapies against covid-19 as soon as they become available. the role of the european centre for disease prevention and control, which is responsible for monitoring emerging disease threats with a view to coordinated response, should also be appropriately strengthened. europeans expect much better cooperation and coordination between european countries in times of crisis and more capacity for the european union to respond to cross-border health threats. we can't let them down!
in writing. health policy, the organisation and delivery of health services and the provision of medical care are matters for the member states and eu action should be complementary. however, the covid-19 outbreak has shown that in cases of critical public health threat, cooperation and coordination of action by all member states is required to protect public health. these unprecedented experiences of the pandemic indicate three areas where closer cooperation between member states, coordinated across the european union, is needed: ensuring the supply of medicines and medical devices in relation to eu4health, the new pharmaceutical strategy and the eu drug scarcity report; ensuring the supply of strategic stocks such as medical equipment for intensive care, respirators and personal protective equipment; digitisation of healthcare: we need to put a strong emphasis on health informatics activities and the development of formal healthcare, including telemedicine or efficient data collection with respect to privacy, as well as their interoperability and comparability. the integration of these three factors can lead to a viable eu strategy for public health protection after a pandemic. but we cannot allow the current health crisis to be used to politically change the treaty framework under the pretext of helping patients.
mr president, when brexit started first, many people in ireland felt that the european union would throw ireland under the bus at the last moment to appease the british. that did not happen. we were shown wonderful solidarity, which was much appreciated, and that solidarity is now needed in relation to greece and cyprus, where a powerful neighbour is violating greek airspace and drilling illegally close to cyprus. i think we need to send a strong message to turkey that it cannot continue violating the sovereignty of our member states, that all member states are equally important to us, and if they do not react properly then we have to take whatever actions are necessary to stand up for our member states. europe’s strength is its unity. that unity we showed in relation to brexit and the withdrawal agreement must now be shown in relation to cyprus and greece.
mr president, mr borrell, as you know, greece has already concluded the agreement on the boundaries of the exclusive economic zone with italy and is working on this with egypt. the aim of greece is to negotiate with turkey on the delimitation of the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone and, in the event of no agreement, to bring the matter jointly before the international court of justice in the hague. turkey is officially threatening the territorial integrity of greece and is questioning international agreements. you know, the delimitation of the eez of greece with turkey is not a bilateral matter. greece will be able to contribute to the diversification of energy suppliers in the european union by increasing its autonomy. the european union therefore has every interest not only in formally and verbally reiterating its position on the eea but above all in putting pressure on turkey to make it compulsory for it to settle the eea either by negotiation or by mutual appeal to the hague.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, just on our border in the heart of europe, our neighbours, the people of belarus, again are being deprived of their fundamental rights. we are with them: žyve belarus! but our message to president lukashenko is clear and recurrent: we strongly condemn this ruthless crackdown and appeal for the immediate release of all who have been unjustly arrested. lukashenko has been in power for 26 years, but for most of this time political life in belarus appears dormant. this is no longer the case. in these circumstances the eu must be equipped with a strategic and responsive policy towards belarus. a policy that includes clear red lines and smart conditionality. against this background, could the high representative tell us how the eu policy towards belarus will be justified to address the ongoing and future situation? if there is no strategy, could you please provide this parliament with a written statement in the coming weeks?
in writing. i regret to say at the outset that i have not seen any improvement in the human rights situation. on the contrary, i am receiving many signals from all over the world, from many quarters, that the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic has led to a worsening of the situation and an increase in human rights violations around the world, including in the european union. climate change, which poses a direct and far-reaching threat to people, in particular indigenous peoples, as well as to communities around the world, deserves particular attention. it is well known that the effects of climate change are inextricably linked to the enforcement of human rights. the information provided by international and non-governmental organisations reveals the tragic situation of migrants, who are often left to fend for themselves, are subject to aggression, violence and lack of basic assistance. many citizens and human rights defenders are subjected to government surveillance and surveillance under the guise of fighting covid-19. i find this kind of situation unacceptable. i would like to emphasise here that the eu is based on values such as human rights. that is why i encourage and call for the integration of human rights into all eu policies.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commissioner is here. for centuries, they were seen as outsiders. surrounded by an atmosphere of mistrust and even contempt, they were an isolated group living on the margins of the developing societies of europe, although their contribution to the cultural heritage is undeniable. " - tomasz tomaszewski, who documented the life of the roma and showed it to the world, so that the societies of these countries took up social, educational, cultural activities, giving this ethnic group the dignity and respect they deserve. i come from a region of poland where our roma brothers have lived and worked for years. here it was decided to openly appeal to the gypsy culture, to cultivate the traditions of the artistic staff of the wajs, krzyżanowski, korzeniowski, siwak, jaworski, zieliński families. the most outstanding roma poet papusza lived here, thirty editions of the international meetings of gypsy teams "romane dyves" were held here, with a rich artistic program created by the outstanding roma artist, composer and poet edvard dębicki, who celebrated the 65th anniversary of his artistic work. here, the roma ethnic group enjoys due respect and recognition thanks to the creation and dissemination of roma culture. i am convinced that the creative implementation of programmes in other areas of social activity, supported by a thorough knowledge of this ethnic group, is the platform for action on behalf of roma in contemporary europe. so the point is that these are not blindly integrating roma into the communities of individual countries. we must preserve and respect their distinctiveness and culture. let us, then, listen to their voice too!
madam president, the eu budget must be protected against violations of the rule of law, but to be effective and fair across member states this conditionality must be based on objective criteria. violations of the rule of law take many dimensions, but a minimal objective threshold that all democrats recognise is that holding political prisoners is incompatible with the rule of law. amnesty international and the united nations working group on arbitrary detention have ruled that the catalan leaders that spain keeps in prison are political prisoners and they must be released. the spanish authorities have not obeyed this demand. as long as spain continues to defy the united nations and keep this warfare against the catalan minority, the rule of law is upset in spain. it is not fair to look only at the east, the rule of law is violated in the west. if you care about democracy and human rights, please do look at spain as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what i notice here is that everyone is picking a country that they particularly dislike. but that would be a fundamental misunderstanding of the rule of law. the rule of law means to me that we have basic standards and that if those standards are not respected, we are also given the opportunity, mr commissioner, to impose penalties and take measures consistently, without looking at the party, the person or the country. i do not care whether it is mr muscat, mr orbán or mr babiš - we have some cases of problems in different party families. we have different problems within the rule of law. what we need to do, for example - and i want to make this very clear - is to carry out systematic checks by actually systematically checking how certain rule of law mechanisms work, systematically checking how tenders are held and whether they are held for the benefit of certain undertakings in certain environments. we need to have disclosure of the beneficial owners and be able to link it to a real-time information system where it really makes sense to be able to actually check everything, to be able to look and not have to look for months. i would ask us not to act in a partisan way, but simply in accordance with standards and measures. then we have credibility.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission put its proposal on the table more than two years ago, and for a year now parliament's position has been very well known. but the council seems to be enjoying a dormant slumber. never has the rule of law been in such a bad state in so many member states. never before has so much taxpayer money been at stake. the council's inaction is filling the pockets of the autocrats. your inaction makes you an accomplice to those who trample on our basic rights. for us, maintaining the rule of law is not a negotiating material in the mff, but a prerequisite for benefiting from european funds. i am counting on the german presidency, mr roth, to ensure that eu funds reach citizens, farmers and smes - where they are needed most, not where they are most shamelessly misused.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is a community of values and laws, and it is a shame that the member states have not been able to agree on a rule of law mechanism, have not wanted to agree on it and have blocked it. the citizens - we - are tired of mere demands and announcements and consolations. the member states must finally make up their minds. only nails with heads can restore lost trust and lost credibility. i would therefore like to make it quite clear to us that we must not allow funds to flow to countries, companies and individuals who trample on eu law. therefore, the rule of law mechanism must be part of the use of next generation eu funds and the next year's long-term budget. it has to be part of the whole package. the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights is a priority not only for the german presidency of the council, not only for the austrian federal government, but for all of us, because it is the basis of this community.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much for this debate. i am pleased to hear that we fully agree on the importance of protecting the union's budget. your support in this regard, as you know, is essential. respect for the rule of law is a fundamental prerequisite for compliance with the principle of sound financial management. the reasoning of our proposal is simple. in order to control the use of eu funds and to protect the eu's financial interests against corruption and fraud, we need in each member state independent justice systems, effective investigative and prosecutorial services and an effective functioning of public authorities implementing the union budget. if those functions are endangered by a generalised deficiency of the rule of law in a member state, the union would be empowered to suspend, reduce or restrict access to eu funding in a proportionate manner. let me also stress that the proposed mechanism ensures the fairness and objectivity of the process. it will give due consideration to the views of the member states concerned and will guarantee the proportionality of the measures taken. moreover, the measures adopted will be subject to the full judicial review of the court of justice. the mechanism must also be kept up to date and effective. it is therefore essential that the voting procedure in the council be reversed qualified majority voting, as proposed by the commission. this would ensure the rapid adoption of the proposed measures. there is currently no instrument to protect the eu budget against generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in a member state. the creation of this mechanism would definitely improve the protection of the eu budget. filling this significant gap is more important than ever, given the increased funding and increased flexibility proposed by the commission in reaction to the covid-19 crisis. we need to protect this funding in the very interest of all taxpayers and all citizens of the union. the commission remains firmly committed to helping to find a compromise and calls on parliament and the council to reach agreement quickly on this important proposal and on a new multiannual financial framework. it is in our common interest to conclude an agreement quickly so that the new multiannual budget is operational from 1 january 2021. the union must provide itself with the means for a sustainable recovery to support the citizens, businesses and regions most affected by the crisis. we also owe it to future generations. the recovery plan on the table is an opportunity for europe to become more resilient, greener and more digital, but also more ambitious in protecting its values. the commission will do all it can to pave the way for a swift and ambitious agreement between the co-legislators. i want to say to the council, to minister roth, that we are ready to engage in the discussions in the trilogue to make progress in protecting the budget of the european union and in defending our values. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. who's afraid of controversy? you didn't, but i promise you, neither did the council. you all know what this is about. europe is not only built on consensus but also on dispute, and our founding fathers and founding mothers of a united europe could not have imagined decades ago that we would ever be in a situation where we would have to seriously examine whether the principles of the rule of law apply equally in all eu member states. i would like to take up what mrs hohlmeier has said here: it is a question of equal treatment. the council attaches the utmost importance to the equal treatment of all member states and to the verification of all member states. if mr daniel freund is in doubt about the integrity of the presidency, i would remind him again not only of what the chancellor said yesterday in favour of the presidency, but also of what we have already kindly sent you, namely the presidency programme. it contains a sentence that i am sure will also please the commissioner: 'we therefore support the commission's proposal to link eu budgets to the respect of the rule of law in the member states.' that's what this is about, and it's not enough. i can only say to you, mr wolters: the council is not in a slumber, we are in a good mood. i can only say that, and if it is up to us - and this is the proposal of the presidency - we will be dealing with the situation of the rule of law in the european union at almost every council meeting during this presidency. we will also take the european commission's forthcoming report on the state of the rule of law as an opportunity to have an objective, but certainly not uncontroversial, exchange of views on the subject. i hope we can do that. i am therefore very grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, for the encouragement you have given us. i see a high degree of agreement, but since it is embedded in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, you all know much better than i do that everything is somehow connected to everything. we are not talking about one area in isolation, but you can be sure that the words of the chancellor will also be heard by the european council, which will make it clear: it is not just about money, but it is really about what is at the heart of what unites us, and so i can answer mr sarvamaa's question and mr korner's question whether we are ambitious enough with a clear and explicit 'yes'. political discounts are not granted to anyone, and i look forward to future discussions with you in this respect. it is a lot of things, but it is also about the unity of the european union, which is based on common values, and the rule of law is an essential part of that.
thank you, secretary roth, and i wish you the best of luck in your negotiations. this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. – one cannot but be supportive of measures to promote and enforce the rule of law in the european union. however, there exists as yet no agreed, concrete rulebook by which to assess the practice of the rule of law in the different member states. so assessments remain quite dependent on subjective political criteria that are not – perhaps cannot – be applied uniformly and equally to all. what constitutes a breach of the rule of law is still open to interpretation that too often discriminates between member states. moreover, the implementation of rule of law provisions including decisions to apply sanctions can only be as objective as possible if the agency that applies them is independent of all other agencies in the union, has a quasi-judicial status and the power to investigate cases of infringement as they arise. this does not seem to be the case as things stand at present. it is extremely doubtful whether such a role should be assigned to the european commission (or its nominee) given its executive and political status. a final point to keep in mind is whether budgetary sanctions as envisaged would not end up hurting most citizens who might themselves be the victims of alleged rule of law breaches.
in writing. since the european commission opened the first infringement proceedings against poland and hungary, the rule of law situation in the union has continued to deteriorate seriously, not only in the abovementioned member states but also in others, posing a serious threat to our entire community union values based on the rule of law and mutual trust. in poland, the pis government has been attacking the constitutional court, the supreme court, independent media, and specific social groups and minorities for five years, targeting lgbti people and migrants in particular. the situation in hungary has not improved either. in recent years, the government, under orbán's leadership, has reduced funding to civil society organizations, systematically marginalized the lgbti community, eliminated media pluralism, and continued to fight academic freedoms and freedom of expression. nevertheless, neither the polish nor the hungarian governments have faced any consequences for the violations of the rule of law committed. in 2018, we welcomed the commission's proposal to link rule of law with eu funds. however, neither the council nor the commission have made sufficient efforts to implement this mechanism effectively. that is why we are calling today on both the council and the commission to take stronger action to stop the european rule of law crisis before it reaches a point of no return.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, srebrenica is the most tragic episode of the bosnian war. the penalties were severe. at international level, the responsibilities do not seem to be clearly defined. finally, on the political side, it is noteworthy that serbia, which was not legally involved in the tragedy, nevertheless issued a public apology in 2010. similarly, the president of the bosnian serb republic lamented in 2004 one of the darkest pages in the history of his people. in a sign of still-rising tensions, it was unfortunately through stone-throwing that aleksandar vučič, then prime minister of serbia, was welcomed at the commemorations in july 2015. it is not the first time that the european parliament has been involved in a debate on the subject. the atrocities of the war cannot justify the ostracism suffered today by the bosnian serb republic, or the violations of its rights guaranteed by the dayton agreement. nor do they justify any bias on principle towards the serbian people, whose enormous toll we must not forget during the two world wars. in particular, as we mark the 75th anniversary of the end of the second world war, let us also pay tribute to the 1.7 million yugoslavs who died in the most spectacular resistance movements in europe. we also remembered that from the town of glina to the camp of jasenovac, this heroic people learned the meaning of the word genocide before many others. the memory of srebrenica must now be that of the thousands of victims and their families who are still alive today, filled with memories of a loved one, a husband, a brother or a father, some of whom they will never know. it must also be the blood of those murdered men and women across national and partisan divides.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on july 11, 1995, 25 years ago, bosnian serb troops took the city of srebrenica and murdered over 8,000 bosnian men and boys. this genocide, this genocide in the heart of europe, took place under the eyes of the world public, and we must ask ourselves again and again: how could this be possible? this failure is the greatest political failure of the european union since the second world war. we therefore take this anniversary as an opportunity to remember with shame and sorrow the victims of this crime. but if we want to prevent the events of srebrenica from happening again, we must remain vigilant, because 25 years after the dayton peace agreement, hatred and nationalism are still dangerous catalysts that are contributing to the division of society and the destabilisation of bosnia and herzegovina, but also of many other countries in europe. the eu must clearly set limits to any political aspirations for supposedly ethnically pure areas. the motive for this elaborate crime was pure racism. this is not a serbian or bosnian invention. in order to make the past work, the war crimes committed against men, women and children must not be suppressed or denied, because they have left deep traumas. the strict prosecution of crimes, the consistent action against genocide denial and against glorification of war criminals are as essential as the development of a common culture of remembrance. different narratives and stereotypes still shape the historical picture. education is important to pass on knowledge, memories and legacies of conflict to the next generation. regional reconciliation is the key to peace and change. the eu has not lost its influence with its values, especially among many young people, and therefore the eu must support bosnia and herzegovina in its efforts to join and strengthen its democratic forces.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, we are commemorating the tragedy of srebrenica 25 years ago. it is a trauma, still an open wound in the netherlands, the biggest mass slaughter in europe since the second world war. the netherlands sent dutchbat to protect the enclave, but the peace mission was a mission impossible from the start. the un mandate was unworkable, the armaments were too light and promises of air support were broken. srebrenica was not the failure of dutchbat, but of the international community and dutch politics. at the time of the decision, i was a political journalist in the netherlands. many felt that we should do something in the former yugoslavia. the government wanted it, the parliament wanted it, the press supported it. but good intentions resulted in a political wish that was militarily unfeasible: dutchbat was taken hostage, too. the dutch government, however, remained seated and did not resign until seven years later after a critical report. srebrenica has given rise to reflection and to many lessons in peace missions. today we honor our veterans and remember the victims of this horrific event, this genocide. it may be a small consolation that general mladić is now serving a life sentence in a dutch prison.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for taking the time to reflect together and remember the srebrenica genocide. now is the time to honour the victims and express our empathy to the survivors and support their families and friends whose lives have been affected. the crime of genocide in srebrenica must be a constant reminder that these acts must never be repeated. it should also remind us that genocide has happened not only in srebrenica and there is no difference in genocide. genocide is genocide. healing starts with remembering and continues with respecting the victims.
in writing. - madam president, i would like to thank you. in july 1995, 50 years after europe said 'never again' to the atrocities of the holocaust, we witnessed another ethnic cleansing on this continent. over eight thousand people were slaughtered in a planned, systematic, bestial way. why would you do that? because from the point of view of their torturers, they did not meet the ethnic criteria. they were ethnically, culturally, linguistically foreign. nationalism, the idea of a chosen people, better than all others. there is no agreement that ethnic, cultural, linguistic or any other distinctiveness is a value of diversity, not a threat. xenophobia and exclusion from the community. these attitudes, these views, these are the results. my friend from silesia knows these problems. this is a region torn apart by nation states for hundreds of years. a region that experienced ethnic cleansing firsthand 75 years ago the upper silesian tragedy. for many years, we were poor history students in europe, making the same mistakes over and over again. we repeated them when we refused to respect and to give the right to be subjects to others. we repeated them when we were insensitive to their vulnerability, when we were unwilling to recognize their right to self-determination, to live in harmony with themselves. it's time to improve the grades, it's time to improve the basic knowledge that different is not inferior, that diversity is a value to embrace, and today to pay tribute to the victims of srebrenica.
in writing. as a result of the governments' response to covid-19, many economic sectors have been put in a difficult situation and require support. artists and cultural workers were also in a difficult situation. so today we're discussing the cultural renaissance of europe. it is a good time to ask ourselves: what is the european union today? what are its values? how much does he respect the code of conduct created by the founding fathers, konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi, robert schuman? these principles are: respect for the cultural and religious identity of national countries and observance of the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity. what's the answer? one that europe really needs a cultural renaissance. we see that in the great project of multiculturalism, europeans are expected to deny themselves, to support the decline of european culture, tradition and religion. modern 'soul engineers' do not want to remember who the founding fathers of the eu were, they try to erase from the collective consciousness the knowledge of their spiritual formation. this is a road to nowhere, for just as only genuine christian political thought could bring about a united europe, so only ideas inspired by it can bring about a genuine cultural renaissance. we must move away from the leftist job of turning european identity into rubble. the eu can only develop if it is a union of homelands, if it values the richness of their diversity, if it values its own culture and identity.
in writing. cohesion policy is the beating heart of europe. today, more than ever before in the history of the european union, we must take care of this heart. to care for those who need it most due to the effects of the pandemic. the need for discretion and sensitivity, not to mention those for whom structural solutions and adequate assistance are critical. it's often about being or not being in the employment dimension and functioning in the present reality. because if not now, when? we should counter the socio-economic impact of covid-19 by learning from the most difficult weeks and months that are behind us. we now know which parts of the economy are particularly helpful in times of danger, which have proven to be strategically necessary, which determine whether we can feel safe. it is also an opportunity to support those sectors of the economy that have proven so important in the face of the reality of the pandemic, such as access to high-performance internet connections that enable remote working, communication and coordination, not to mention distance learning, which could not be so efficient without high-performance internet connectivity. we must act quickly, efficiently and with discretion. let us do everything we can to help those who have been affected by the covid-19 pandemic and strengthen our countries and the european community as a whole in the face of the challenges ahead.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it should be noted that the scope of the changes proposed by the ec is insufficient in view of the scale of the challenges posed by the epidemic. it is also worth highlighting the critical decline in the resources for the treaty objectives under cohesion policy. the commission's latest proposal of may 2018 (currently under negotiation) reduces the fifg budget for the ps by 2,3% compared to the commission's proposal of may 2018 (including the erdf by 2%, esf+ by 3% and the fifg by 1,7%). the need to implement the proposed actions immediately. the key legislative initiatives, the coronavirus response investment initiative (crii) and crii+, should therefore be adopted as soon as possible. it should be stressed that the will to cooperate constructively in the council must be confirmed by each of the member states. this will allow for the swift processing of legislative proposals related to the economic recovery of eu countries after the covid-19 pandemic. we should therefore mobilise our efforts to achieve this objective. i also support the possibility of increasing transfers between cohesion policy funds (erdf, esf+ and funds for growth), the establishment of a set of interim measures for the implementation of cohesion policy, the extension of the current scope of support from the erdf and the extension of the specific objectives of the erdf. the changes in the scope of the efs+ are an adequate response to the social and economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic and provide the flexibility and the ability to respond quickly to possible future labour market crises.
i would like to say that we all need a multiannual financial framework and a reconstruction instrument. whatever we are talking about here today, i would like to believe that what the council has prepared after long and arduous negotiations, with poland's important participation, deserves recognition. and i want to emphasize that i see that the idea of solidarity and responsibility has prevailed over the national egoisms that we feared. i firmly believe that no one will be harmed by what has been prepared during these four days. i believe that very strongly, even though the rule of law is clearly being trampled on. poland and hungary, and all countries, are for the rule of law, just as they are for clean air, clean water, and a good climate. and i hope that we will not have a situation where, on the basis of false premises, for example, that a judge is in a bad mood, one of the nations or one of the states will be punished. i trust the integrity of the council, the union, the government and mrs von der leyen in this matter. if there is a review of the law in the european union countries, it will be a fair review. we're not afraid of the rule of law, but we're afraid of fake, bad judges. we also hope that very soon this money will be released, released into the market, that it will be dedicated to the poorer regions, to entrepreneurs, to those who need protection at work. i believe strongly that we will go with these new financial instruments with the various shortcomings that others have talked about here without any backward movement. i therefore wish all countries good luck and good use of these funds.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm very happy for you, mr. president. the european union summit was a success, because it's a historic moment, where such a big measure (potential measures - i hope the process of ratification of this plan will be just as effective) can revive, can save the european economy after this crisis that we have due to the pandemic. it is also important, very important, that european funds will be protected by the rule of law mechanism. it is certainly a success, but we in parliament will soon be adopting a budget, a multiannual plan, which will also achieve the objectives we are talking about. how can we sign off on cutting the just transition fund, which is supposed to be used to build a practical goal of climate neutrality by 2050, and say that's our priority? these regions, the coal regions, like upper silesia, need support. we need to strengthen this fund, not reduce it. we cannot tell our young citizens that our common europe is thinking of them, cares about their safety and education, and at the same time reduce by 50% the erasmus+ programme, which is the standard of thinking about this common, modern, open europe with development opportunities for young people too. we're going to have a cancer committee here in parliament starting in september. this is the biggest killer in europe today. after the pandemic, we have other health and safety challenges. we have virtually eliminated health policy from the multiannual financial plan, or this proposal does. we cannot agree to that here in parliament. we talk a lot about the rule of law. if the rule of law is so important to all of us, then the rights and values programme, which promotes shared values, promotes democracy, should be strengthened and its prestige and its financial support should be enhanced. we have border security. we have other tasks, science and so on. europe must be stronger and more united. and i think that together, together, we can achieve that by thinking about these priorities from a financial perspective as well. we need to fix this budget.
madam president, honourable madam president of the european commission, honourable mr president of the council, the imro delegation will not be supporting either the agreement or the resolution we are discussing at the moment for several reasons. first, that agreement is directly contrary to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. all of you who advocate the rule of law agree to treaty violations. i cannot understand and i cannot accept this hypocrisy and this double-dealing. second, you're borrowing from our children, you're borrowing money that our children will pay back in 30 years without you even asking them to, because you can't. moreover, part of this loan you'll give away as grants, and the rest you'll give away as loans, but you'll pay them all back and you'll pay them all back. madam chairman, grants, donated money corrupts both governments and societies. it was, by the way, communism, which takes from those who work and gives to those who need. and we saw how that ended. and lastly, the speculation with freedom, with the right to rule of law. the rule of law means independent, free justice, without political interference, without political propaganda, without trying to change societies, without trying to change family relationships, that's the rule of law. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. michel, who does not learn from history, is condemned to repeat it. you are building a federal socialist europe today, which is killing the european union and the common market. thank you, sir.
president of the european commission, president of the european council! we are talking today about how the union is responding to the challenges of today - the pandemic - and tomorrow - the union as a fiscal entity with its own resources. we also talk about even more important issues, even crucial to the existence of the european union - the values that unite us, or at least should unite us. in my country, poland, the issue of respect for the rule of law is at the heart of a heated debate. the narrative from government circles is that the link between the rule of law and eu funds is only indirect and will in fact become a dead letter. the mechanism linking the rule of law to the funds and specific decisions in this regard taken by the council of the european union, where the qualified majority rule applies, will have to be approved by the european council, where poland will veto the unanimity rule. thus, - excuse my irony - poland will defend its sovereignty, it will be able to break the rule of law with impunity. it was a big hit. so i ask you, madam president, is this narrative correct or does it arise from a misunderstanding of the conclusions adopted by the european council? or is it a conscious attempt to avoid the truth? we owe a clear answer to this question to the poles, but i think also to all europeans.
mr president, before i start my intervention, i would like to say that i find it regrettable that the leadership of the commission and the council have a habit of leaving before the end of the debate. for such an important debate, i would expect everybody to be here until the end. today is a birthday. it’s the birthday of the european coal and steel community, and in the 1951 founding treaty of paris, it gave the high authority the power to levy taxes and to borrow money and budget decisions were taken by majority. now, let that sink in. the government leaders at the time had the vision and the courage to take a big leap forward for future generations. today’s debate is not about money or figures; it’s about how we want to shape our european society and make it fit for the future. it’s about the choice between old europe and new europe. rebates are old europe – actually, 1984, when the berlin wall still divided europe. investing in research, climate policies and the rule of law, that’s new europe. last year, over 200 million europeans gave us a mandate. they voted with hopes and expectations for the future. parliament has the power and we have a duty to use it. let’s take that leap forward.
i will take note of your comment.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear representatives of the council, since there weren’t too many colleagues who said it, i’m going to do it: thank you for steering the ship during that five-day storm. you deserve, at least, respect for your strength and for what you achieved. разбира се, това което постигнахте, не е съвършено. вашето споразумение не е съвършено, затова има и европейски парламент, който ще се опита да го направи такова. има неща, които са трудни за обяснение, като обещанието да преодолеем заедно covid кризата и да намалим парите, например за reacteu. като това да обещаем по-чиста околна среда и да свием парите по фонда за справедлив преход, който би трябвало да подпомогне минната индустрия в европа. това са неща, срещу които ние ще се борим, ще помогнем да увеличим парите за студентите по еразъм. сигурен съм, че ще ни разберете. накрая обаче си мисля, че това, с което сме се заели, има много по-голяма стойност, много по-важно е. макар европейският парламент да чакаше почти 600 дни за това споразумение, ние сме готови повече от всякога да го направим прекрасно. в края на всеки ден, когато целуваме децата си за лека нощ, ние им обещаваме по-добро утро. сега е моментът да си изпълним обещанието и с цялото ми уважение, единствената политика, която спаси животи по време на тази криза, беше кохезионната. нито цент не бива да намаляваме от нея, трябва да я подкрепим, трябва да подкрепим и фонда, който ще преодолее covid кризата. това очакват гражданите от нас. този парламент съществува заради тях, а не обратното. благодаря ви.
mr president, europe, with the recovery fund, is deciding to take charge of its destiny: common taxes, common debt, to build a common future, which is how societies build it. this time our reforms will be to bet on europeans, to invest in them; to bet on a more competitive, digital, green economy, with quality jobs; to bet on a more resilient industry and, of course, with a more inclusive, fair growth, that brings us together. somehow, we learn from our past mistakes. we're not bailing out any country. this time we are rescuing europe and its values, which give us meaning: collective ambition and solidarity. it's been a long time coming to the recovery fund. this parliament has contributed to this - and many governments, such as the spanish one. but the price has also been high: a lamentable proposal for a budget for the union. and that is why we, as the co-responsible authority for the budget, are demanding a budget of the union that is up to the challenge and, above all, with budget lines that are in line with the demands of our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! we are deeply concerned about our international responsibilities. the reconstruction programme does not provide for humanitarian aid and the medium-term financial framework has been reduced for development cooperation. solidarity is threatened, especially at a time when our partners need it most. it needs to be fixed, it needs to be changed. we social democrats are working for a good development of the existing programmes: for good work, for social cohesion, for economic renewal. we have set the course for this in germany and in europe. but one thing is always clear: the rights of citizens in warsaw and budapest are not price-tagged, they are not for sale, neither today nor tomorrow nor on the day when the vote on the medium-term financial framework takes place in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the late compromise of the european council is the beginning of negotiations with the european parliament. the negotiations are urgently needed because we cannot accept renationalisation, the lack of responsibility for the future and the abundance of declarations of intent with unanimity, but we must improve the situation and the result. the european union is not an atm machine, and we are not a bazaar. we are a community of law and values. we want to strengthen european democracy. we want to be a credible community for the future, and we are responsible to the people and to each other and to the future, not to party strategies and not to the right-wing populism and national populism which unfortunately is growing in our member states. we need courage, decency, responsibility and attitude. the speeches by mr michel here are different from the communication of the historic result of 750 billion - yes, that is historic - by many - to many - heads of state and government in the member states, because it is national-populist and not shaped by european responsibility and this historic result. i therefore say very clearly: we as the european parliament are in favour of: no decision without the european chamber of citizens, no money in violation of european law and our values, withdrawal of all cuts at the expense of our common objectives in education, research, security, climate investment and social cohesion, introduction of a rule of law mechanism and of own resources to a binding repayment plan with corners and edges. unanimity must be abolished if european democracy is to become stronger.
mr president, finding an agreement and a common answer to an unprecedented crisis in europe is good news. yes, the deal is historic, but only the part of the recovery fund – next generation eu – which includes a big part of grants and also communitarisation of debt. this is solidarity and a better answer to a crisis than in 2008. however, when it comes to the mff, which is supposed to make europe more resilient, more social, more modern and climate-friendlier, this is bad news for the next generation and not historic. as socialists, we cannot accept the cuts in future-oriented programmes. we cannot and will not accept the watering-down of the rule of law and, therefore, it is good that in this resolution we added fundamental rights and democracy. i deeply regret that the rebates have not been abolished. here the council missed an opportunity to move us out of the net payer discussion in europe. europe is more than giving and taking! today, we as members of the european parliament, the only directly elected eu institution, write history too by voting in favour of this resolution, where we welcome the recovery fund but we clearly state that this mff is not enough. not enough when it comes to finances and not enough when it comes to defending the rule of law and democracy. this parliament will not swallow bitter pills. europe deserves more.
mr president, the leaders of the european union have taken a historic step by approving a joint loan to deal with the worst recession since the war. these resources now need to be coordinated to make the single market and our economies greener, more digital and more resilient. of course, this historic step is based on a historic compromise from which we as parliament cannot accept the disconnection of funding from the rule of law, the reduction of funds for research, health and education, the reduction of funds for the just transition fund, which the regions of western macedonia and megalopolis so badly need. we hope that this will change in the negotiations. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. turkey, a candidate country for membership of the european union, is threatening greece's sovereign rights, has issued navtex, with the aim of conducting seismic surveys on the greek shelf. turkey is violating the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. turkey is challenging france. turkey is violating the arms trade in libya. he is insulting the values of western civilization by turning the world heritage site of hagia sophia into a mosque. ladies and gentlemen, we are now calling for the european union to draw up a list of sanctions against turkey immediately. it is the only way for the union to send a clear and unambiguous message that it will not tolerate the violation of the sovereign rights of its members, that it will not tolerate threats to its borders by exploiting people who are suffering. it is time for the european union to take its rightful place as a player on the international chessboard of foreign policy. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. he's undermining our common future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european council will certainly go down in european history as having set the right course for our future. we have chosen the unity of europe, we have chosen solidarity between the states, we have chosen the responsibility of facing together, with common instruments, not only the economic crisis but also the problems of the lives of the citizens - work, health - finally revealing the social soul of europe. it has finally been realised that if one country falls, sooner or later all of them can fall. and i must say that the nationalists and populists, including in my country, italy, where they believe they are still strong, have no arguments at the moment in their battle against europe. but as much as there is appreciation for this result, so much is, i must say, disappointment and even rejection - as far as i am concerned, but not only me, many voices have been raised here - for an inconsistent, contradictory and perhaps harmful mff for the objectives that the recovery plan proposes. i don't know what you mean. culture, education and research cannot be cut off: i'll tell president michel, who's not here, but whoever's listening for him. you can't cut the search. i remind you that we have spent the last few months leaning on the lips of scientists, doctors and researchers to figure out how to behave, how to survive. and even today, our future, our lives, our economy depend on the choices, the decisions and the results of ongoing research regarding vaccines, medicines, etc. we all praised the health workers and researchers who, despite inadequate facilities and inadequate salaries, carried out their work, we called it "heroically". we can 't stop now . the mff is insufficient. mr president, you have worked so hard, and although you were not thanked today for this achievement, i am sure that you will also be responsible, on behalf of this parliament, for a better result for the mff.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for holding this extraordinary meeting and for interrupting some of your well-earned holidays. it is also appropriate for the occasion that we should get down to business here. it has taken a long time for the european council to make its position on negotiations clear. now we have a result. i share your criticism of the design of the mff in particular. there is certainly a lot that can hopefully be further developed in the negotiations, particularly those areas that cannot be compensated by the next generation eu. when i think about foreign policy, for example, we have said very strongly and we have often discussed in this house the importance of taking action, for example, in the neighbourhood, in africa, originally and still validly, for reasons of combating migration, but also now, when it comes to ensuring that in other parts of the world, provided we have a medicine, we have a vaccine, these resources can also be provided. this is only possible if there is a corresponding budget. i think that there is an opportunity to make improvements in these areas. the rule of law has been mentioned by you very often today. there are different interpretations, and i think mrs piri was one of you who said that. that's the thing, everybody goes home and sees what they want to see. but what matters is what is written on the paper and, above all, what is accepted. so there is a political statement. but now it is a matter of putting this into the legislation, and you are part of that discussion and ultimately of that decision. i am very grateful to you again today for your strong support on the own resources side. but i think the path is set. it has always been necessary to see first what, at the end of the day, is actually, so to speak, the scale that not only has to be raised on the capital market, but also has to be paid back. on this basis we can now, as the commission, and we have been asked to do so, go into the details of the planning. what kind of new own resources can there be? the conclusions give some indications, and parliament has its ideas. i think we should collect all of them and then we should also make a sound needs analysis. some of the own sources of revenue can be designed and decided and implemented more quickly. others simply require more time because of the complexity, if i think of the carbon border tax and the corresponding mechanism. this is a legal exercise and not an easy one. that's gonna take some time, too. but you can assume that the commission, if i may say so, is very determined to come forward with proposals here as soon as possible. thank you again. i believe that what has been achieved in the last four days has been rightly described by some of you as a historic decision. with all the downsides that come with these choices. but i think it's already been shown, and i was involved in it over a decade ago: in fact, the european union did not react to the financial and economic crisis at the time with the same speed as it is doing now. we should also bear that in mind. i therefore make one final appeal: i understand - and it is perfectly clear and understandable - the need and i believe also the right of the european parliament to be more closely involved in all decision-making and also in the question of how the funds are to be used in the coming years. i am asking that we have a quick discussion and a quick decision here too. the time is of the essence here, and we must not forget that if you have taken decisions, we also need the decisions of the member states. the european parliament has to ratify it, and 23 national parliaments have to ratify it, which means all the member states in total. this is a process that usually takes many, many months. we are being asked to do this ideally this year so that we can actually help european citizens and european businesses at the beginning of the year, not in the middle or towards the end of the year. i believe that european solidarity is also necessary here. thank you again.
we are at the end of this extraordinary plenary debate. the next plenary session will be held in september. we have all experienced, ladies and gentlemen, a special moment in our lives and in the life of our institution. i wanted to thank everyone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has been a very difficult few months, we have done everything to make parliament work and, with parliament working, we have made the european union work. it was an extraordinary achievement, for which i must thank you, for the sacrifices that everyone has made, for your patience. we all wanted more, but it was done with the tools we had. now our work continues, parliament and its work will continue. it will be nice to meet you in strasbourg, which is one of our cities. thank you, thank you, thank you. i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european council's agreement on the eu's multiannual budget and the covid-19 relief package is very important news for europe as it grapples with the devastating impact of the pandemic. this does not mean, however, that the outcome of the negotiations is entirely satisfactory. it is difficult to accept a significant reduction in the amount of money invested in climate protection, research, education and health. the coronavirus pandemic has made it clear to all of us how important it is to strengthen europe's health security and prepare the community for possible health crises that may arise in the future. it is also worth noting that for the first time in history, the disbursement of eu funds has been made conditional on respect for the rule of law. in this context, it is necessary to increase the possibility for beneficiaries, in particular local authorities and non-governmental organisations, to benefit directly from union funds. for these reasons, the european parliament cannot accept the agreement put forward by the european council. any reservations and doubts must be resolved in the negotiations between the european parliament and the eu council representing the member states.
in writing. the longest european council meeting in history has come to an end. i am convinced that for all 27 eu leaders, this summit has been a success. poland and hungary are not the only ones to have reason to be satisfied. that's what the art of compromise is all about, making all parties feel like they've succeeded. the outcome of the summit is also a personal success for prime minister mateusz morawiecki. a success that translates into billions of zlotys, which in the nearest budgetary perspective will flow to poland. this will be the largest transfer of eu funds to poland in history. i would like to emphasize very strongly here: poland is not against the rule of law. we have respected and complied with the law, but we are firmly opposed to this abstract mechanism being used to put pressure on individual countries, especially those whose leaders are not part of the brussels establishment of today, in an unspecified way, without being rooted in any legal act, in any eu treaty. i am convinced that the people who are on the left or in the brussels salon are the ones who are law-abiding. when parties like fidesz or pis come to power, they talk about fascism, dictatorship. but the only dictatorship that can threaten the eu today is the dictatorship of political correctness and the belief that there are countries in europe that are allowed more and those that are allowed less.
in writing. more than the deep fractures and contradictions that run through the eu, the european council meeting highlighted the very nature of an integration process that is inherently generative of inequalities and asymmetries, in which capitalist competition in the single market prevails over any prospect of solidarity between states, which in practice proves to be non-existent. the european council conclusions, initially endorsed by germany and france and later welcoming the pressure and impositions of other major beneficiaries of the single market and the euro, set conditions even more unfavourable for portugal and other countries of the cohesion. on the one hand, a more significant cut in the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework is confirmed, with implications for cohesion and agriculture. some of the main beneficiaries of the integration guarantee a substantial increase in the discount to their contributions, which they already enjoyed. the so-called recovery fund is reduced, particularly in its 'grants' component. at the same time, mechanisms are being created and strengthened which enshrine increased eu interference in the implementation of investment options and other sovereign decisions of the member states. this is an unacceptable additional pressure to link the instruments now approved - the budget and the recovery fund - to the imposition of the eu's neoliberal recipe.
in writing. the multiannual financial framework adopted by the european council and the next generation eu recovery fund are historic. the heads of state or government succeeded in reinforcing european solidarity and adopted the most environmentally friendly budget in the union's history. over the next seven years, the european union and its member states will spend more than €500 billion to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the agreement is a significant contribution to the objectives of the green deal and is the world's first green deal crisis management package. it is also a positive step that member states can access significant amounts of resources to meet their 2030 and 2050 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. this will allow member states to design their energy mix in an economically and socially sustainable way to support the green transition. in order to achieve climate ambition and to use financial instruments effectively, it is also worthwhile to take into account good practices in the member states. hungary is a good example of this, as it has committed itself to a clean, smart and prosperous energy policy. as a result, it has been able to reduce emissions and lower energy prices for households, while maintaining a growing economy over the past decade.
in writing. a historic european council meeting took place on 17-21 july, during which the new multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2021-2027 and the european reconstruction fund (erf) were discussed. after almost a record period of difficult political negotiations, a compromise was finally reached that satisfied all the member states. we can take great pride in the fact that we as the european union continue to respond with urgency, solidarity and ambition to emerge from the crisis together stronger and more resilient to similar events in the future. the budget of €1.074 billion from the mff and €750 billion from the eif is money that will serve our economies and citizens well in these difficult times. i think the key issue now is to get the budget resolutions passed as soon as possible. as a compromise in the european council is an excellent starting point, i call on parliament to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that we can deliver funds to the eu's most deprived regions. i welcome the fact that cohesion policy has been able to win the budget negotiations. higher co-financing rates and a longer spending period are among the many improved conditions that will significantly improve the implementation process. i am also pleased that the least developed regions of poland will receive an additional of eur 600 million in support over the previously planned .
in writing. there's an old english saying that you can't have your cake and eat it too. perhaps since the british are no longer in the commonwealth, we are somehow unconsciously trying to get the eu version of that saying, just in reverse formula we are trying to have our cake and eat it, too, and still have it. at the last european council, eu leaders agreed that the just transition fund would be cut to €17.5 billion. this is more than twice the previously proposed 40 billion euros. at the same time, they have upheld the climate neutrality goals, which we can only achieve if we successfully transition to renewable energy. and it takes money to do it. just transformation is not only a matter of concern for those who will be affected by it, it is also a matter of pragmatism - those who feel harmed by change reject it. i understand that member states want to save, but apparent savings are not savings. it's short-sighted policy. as the european parliament we cannot agree to it and we must fight for adequate funding for the just transformation fund.
in writing. – with the covid-19 pandemic far from being over in many eu member states, its negative economic impact on public finances, businesses and employment is likely to deepen further. to mitigate these consequences the eu needs a swift and large-scale recovery plan. in this context i welcome the committed effort of european council to come up with a political consensus on the way forward for the recovery. however, besides the imminent economic challenge, which covid-19 presents, we must not lose sight of our strategic long-term objectives such as building a sustainable, socially fair and globally competitive eu economy based on science and innovations. the instrument we have to turn this ambitious vision into reality is our long-term eu budget. that is why i regret that the european council missed the opportunity to enhance core eu programs that support r&d, digitalisation, education and just energy transition. these are proven investment instruments at eu level, which if are loaded with sufficient resources, could move our economy forward at a faster pace and support european companies to achieve global competitiveness in the next decades. i hope the negotiations on the mff not only run swiftly, but also with a more forward-looking responsibility and ambition.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european council has reached agreement on the eu budget 2021-2027 and the reconstruction fund. this will mobilise funds on an unprecedented scale (eur 1.8 trillion) to combat the impact of the coronavirus pandemic in europe. the european parliament should not, however, accept all the summit's conclusions without thinking, because the conclusions were not taken into account in the community interest in order to achieve unanimity among the leaders of the member states. there have been significant cuts in health, youth, culture and education, research, europe's digital and ecological transformation. moreover, funds for the transformation of coal-dependent regions and the development of rural regions were also cut, contrary to poland's interests. the scale of grants to member states under the fund has also been considerably reduced, with loans offered instead. in this context, i believe that, in the interests of poland and europe as a whole, we should unanimously demand an increase in the amounts for the european programmes mentioned and the establishment of new sources of eu own revenue (including a digital tax) so that it is not the member states that have to bear the costs of overcoming the crisis in the long term. the need to tackle economic problems must go hand in hand with the need to protect the values on which the union is built. in this context, i consider it an additional priority to establish an effective mechanism to link eu funds to the protection of the eu's financial interests and the rule of law.
in writing. thank you for all the efforts you have put into establishing a joint action plan and budget for the coming years. after reading the conclusions of the european council, i have a few reservations. i cannot agree with the decision to cut healthcare funding, especially now that the whole world is fighting the coronavirus epidemic and healthcare in europe needs additional funding. in view of the ageing trends of the population, the disabled and the ever-increasing number of cancer patients for whom access to modern medicine is crucial, additional funding is needed. nor can i support a substantial cut in funding for humanitarian and development aid to africa. it has been said many times in the debate that the eu is not an atm, which i fully understand. respect for the rule of law by the member states is essential for the continued functioning of the community and it is therefore appropriate to link it to financing in the various economic and social fields. in conclusion, let me just say that being a member of the eu is not just about enjoying the benefits and privileges of membership, but also about respecting the laws and principles that govern the community.
in writing. – despite the protracted haggling, the conclusions of the european council meeting have not delivered an appropriate and satisfactory european response to the economic crisis resulting from the corona virus pandemic and the multivariate strategies that the eu needs to follow in order not to lag too far behind the us and china. beyond the economic and social divergences that have grown in recent years, the political divergences that define the european reality have now come into open display. in size and format, the recovery fund will likely not be enough to contain the as yet unforeseeable consequences of the pandemic. while the same remark applies to the mff itself, the adjustments made to the latter so as to achieve a final agreement in council seriously undermine the coherence of the eu budget. it is almost impossible to understand how and why areas like health, research and support to companies should be subjected to a brutal amputation. unfortunately one doubts whether the intervention of this parliament can in any way help to improve the situation. the only reason to support the agreement reached is because without any agreement at all, things would be much worse. that’s what we believe now. history might give a different verdict.
in writing. for me, a human rights defender and former deputy ombudsman, the rule of law is one of the european community's most important values. it is also the foundation of all the democratic systems which make it up, and is necessary to ensure that the rights of union citizens are guaranteed. however, a number of events in recent years have exposed the weaknesses of the eu's control mechanisms and shown how a lack of respect for common values and principles can lead to a situation where the rule of law is not given to us once and for all. i am a member of parliament from poland, where the ruling party has over the past five years led to the elimination of guarantees of the tripartite power, destroyed the independence of the judiciary, violated the rights of women, lgbt+ people, and disregarded the rights of people with disabilities and the elderly. but we also have a rule of law problem in other member states. and we have to fight for it. the agreement reached at the eu summit on the link between the rule of law and eu funds offers hope for change. we must remember, however, that the effects of introducing this mechanism cannot be directed at citizens. sanctions cannot be applied to those who do not accept the law's disregard for their governments. they have to touch the actual perpetrators of the violations.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 23 july 2020.
ladies and gentlemen, i greet the members present and those connected to the internet. as you can see, we are still in the covid-19 emergency. we had hoped that the summer break would bring us back to normal, but we have found that our countries are still affected by the virus. the spread of the disease has resumed in many of our territories and has prompted national governments to take containment measures. for this reason, on the basis of information from the health services and the french authorities, i have regrettably decided not to hold the plenary session in strasbourg in september. i would like to thank the chairmen of the political groups for their support of this difficult decision and for expressing at the conference of presidents their full support for my decision to resume the strasbourg session as soon as the health situation in the city and the security conditions allow us to return. i am grateful to the french authorities for having understood the spirit of this decision and for their continued cooperation during these difficult months. i would like to extend a warm welcome, on behalf of all members of this house, to the mayor and the citizens of strasbourg, who are awaiting our return, which we hope will be as soon as possible. ladies and gentlemen, i have received reports from many of you that a slovak citizen, jozef chovanec, died after being detained at charleroi airport in february 2018. i would like to express my solidarity and your solidarity with his family, his loved ones and his friends, and to stress once again that respect for human rights and the rule of law is a core value for the european union. we join the call for truth and for clarity on responsibility. the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has already been given the task of dealing with the case and parliament will of course follow developments.
mr president, this parliament is going to debate the situation in the refugee camp in moria on thursday, and rightfully so as the situation has dramatically deteriorated after fires broke out last week. there are thousands of people without shelter and without clean water, many of them children. it is clear that we have to act. the european parliament is actually ready to act. it is just the council that is blocking. under this precondition, i believe it is absolutely unacceptable that we debate this situation without the council being present. so i would like you, mr president, to make sure that the council has to be here when we discuss the situation in moria.
mr president, i speak on behalf of many meps over political divisions. we kindly ask you to consider, during the next october part-session, our question referring to the human rights situation in iran, especially political prisoners sentenced to death. unfortunately, the situation deteriorated since our earlier request: navid afkari has already been executed. we kindly ask you to consider this request.
of course, everything you have said happened at the commission. we have security measures that we hope will respond effectively to events of this nature.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the interim report on the proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a clear risk of a serious breach of the rule of law by the republic of poland (2017/0360r(nle) the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of the application of article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to the measures adopted by the council in the field of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular article 8 thereof.
the rapporteur. mr president, vice-president jourová, if, among other international and supranational organisations, all the european institutions, including the commission and the european parliament, but also the council of europe, the venice commission, think tanks dedicated to human rights, as well as the organisation for security and cooperation in europe the osce and its parliamentary assembly, have dedicated opinions and resolutions, time and again, to poland, there must be some reason. because they have expressed concern about a poland which, as we remember in its recent accession to the european project, is moving further and further away from european values. and of course that reason cannot have anything to do with the surrealist explanation we have heard more than once that this is a leftist conspiracy. this is ridiculous. the reason is serious. we are talking about an abrupt sequence of initiatives for institutional and legislative reforms, which have clearly raised the ominous news of a certain risk of serious violation of the founding values of the european union enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. and that is the assumption on which the european parliament launched the article 7 procedure which is now on the council's table. and indeed, this sequence, which has been described more than once as a constitutional breakdown, a constitutional collapse of the architecture of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in poland, is very worrying. because undermining the founding values of the european union, democracy and rights in any member state of the european union - in the case of poland - is doing so throughout the european union and is therefore an impact that undermines the credibility of the entire project of european construction, which goes directly against the project of coexistence governed by the law - that is what it is about and that is the rule of the game - with a court that guarantees that legal order, which is the court of justice. and we have found that this is the tenth resolution that the european parliament has concentrated on poland. there are seven specifically on poland and three others on minority protection, equality and the status of fundamental rights in the european union, which contain very strong paragraphs on the situation in poland. and to be told that one more resolution might not make any difference is, in itself, an explanation of how necessary and inevitable this resolution is. because europe cannot allow the resolutions of the european parliament, the initiatives of the commission and the judgments of the court of justice of the european union to be systematically ignored by any member state of the european union. this resolution contains 65 paragraphs and, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i had the honour of being its rapporteur - the rapporteur of this european parliament for this resolution - and i have tried at all times to make it an accurate, factual, factual resolution, and also a resolution that avoids verbal excesses in order to describe exactly what the main objects are on which this unprecedented sequence of abrupt institutional and legislative reforms, hammered by the majority that supports the government without counting on anyone else in the polish sejm - the polish parliament - does indeed pose a risk of a certain serious violation of the founding values of the european union. they do so in matters of the constitutional court, the judiciary, the judicial office and also the disciplinary chamber, which has been described as a supreme court within the supreme court. these aspects have been addressed in relation to the separation of powers and the quality of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office in poland identified with the ministry of justice as in no other member state of the european union as of... occupation of the judiciary and abuse of the prosecutor's office. four infringement procedures under article 158 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been initiated by the commission. and four other judgments of the court of justice of the european union have been ignored and systematically flouted by the polish authorities. only one was partially received: the one concerning the early retirement of a number of supreme court judges. the rest have been completely ignored. but the resolution also deals with other issues besides those relating to the independence of the judiciary and the autonomy of the prosecutor's office in poland. it also deals with restricted pluralism, with severe restriction of political pluralism. it deals with rights and freedoms which are increasingly undermined by these legislative reforms: freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, freedom of protest, freedom of dissent and, above all, in the media; a serious restriction, therefore, of information pluralism. and derogatory and threatening language towards minorities, anti-semitic content in the last election campaign and, of course, those infamous lgbti free zones, which have been declared by certain local administrations in poland, which are radically incompatible with european law. for all these reasons, this resolution of 65 paragraphs is a resolution which seeks to be precise and concise and therefore sends a message: commission, council, do your job and carry forward article 7. and i conclude by saying: this message is a message for poland to return to the values of the union to which it belongs, for poland to return to the european union to which it belongs. and this european parliament is not an alien spacecraft, nor is it a foreign power in poland, but it represents the polish people, who are therefore european. and so parliament is defending european citizenship and polish citizenship.
dear colleague, i would inform you that you have now used your six minutes of speaking time, with speaking time at the end, so i cannot give you the floor at the end of the debate.
author. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, juan fernando lópez aguilar, for underlining that article 7 should encompass not only the rule of law but also fundamental rights and democracy. as the co-chair of the lgbti intergroup, i am particularly happy that lgbti rights in poland are strongly addressed. the amendments the intergroup proposed and which were adopted by the s&d rapporteur and supported by four other groups specifically target the fears and the realities that lgbti persons are experiencing in poland. this includes hate speech by high political officials and, more recently, police brutality during the mass arrests of lgbti activists this summer during the polish ‘stonewall’. apart from cutting eu funds under the city-twinning programmes, which we highly welcome, the commission’s lack of action regarding lgbti-free zones is worrying. last april the court of justice of the european union recognised in the rete lenford case that homophobic statements can constitute discrimination in employment. therefore, the lgbti intergroup asks the commission if it agrees that lgbti free-zone declarations risk discriminating against lgbti persons in employment and occupation. will the commission start an infringement procedure based on the eu directive on equal treatment in employment? the polish lgbti community needs the commission to take stronger action. what concrete steps will the commission take to protect it, especially when it comes to protecting human rights defenders, like the authors of the ‘atlas of hate’? we must keep in mind that attacks on the rights of lgbti people are a serious threat to fundamental rights everywhere in our union. throughout the whole summer, thanks to the webinars of the lgbti intergroup and of rainbow rose, i listened to many testimonies from polish lgbti people. they feel neglected because of the insufficient eu action, but they still have hope and believe in strong eu support. dear commission, let us not disappoint them.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for having included the joint debate in the plenary agenda. let me also thank the rapporteur, mr lópez aguilar, for his work on the report, and also the authors of the oral question. i would like to take this opportunity to present the key developments that have occurred since the last plenary debate on the situation in poland. let me start with the new legislation on the judiciary of 20 december 2019, which entered into force in february this year. the commission came to the conclusion that this law undermines the judicial independence of polish judges and is incompatible with the primacy of eu law. in particular, it prevents polish courts from directly applying certain provisions of eu law protecting judicial independence and from putting references for preliminary rulings on such questions to the court of justice. for this reason, on 28 april 2020, the commission opened a new infringement proceeding against poland by addressing to it a letter of formal notice. the commission has received the reply from the polish authorities and will soon decide on the next steps in this procedure. as regards the new disciplinary regime for judges in poland, upon the commission’s request for interim measures, on 8 april 2020, the european court of justice ruled that poland must immediately suspend the application of national provisions concerning the powers of the disciplinary chamber of the supreme court. the order applies until the court has rendered its final judgment in the pending infringement procedure. following this order, a judge of the disciplinary chamber referred a legal question to the polish constitutional tribunal contesting the constitutionality of treaty provisions on which the order for interim measures is based. the referral is still pending with the constitutional tribunal. i would like to underline that the order of the european court of justice is binding. it takes immediate effect and must be implemented by the member state concerned. as made clear by the case-law of the european court of justice, the binding nature of the orders of the court cannot be questioned on the basis of national laws or rulings of national courts, even on the basis of national constitutional provisions. commissioner reynders sent a letter to the polish authorities regarding the implementation of the interim measures order, expressing concerns and asking for clarifications and further information. the commission is currently analysing the reply from poland and the situation on the ground as regards the arrangements put in place to comply with the order. a further development is that the disciplinary chamber has been seized by the prosecution services in cases requesting the lifting of the judicial immunity of judges for the purpose of pursuing criminal investigations, including in cases which concern the contents of judicial decisions. on 6 june 2020, the disciplinary chamber rejected such a request and it is expected to re-examine this case in appeal in october. other such cases have also been scheduled by the disciplinary chamber. the commission is closely following these developments. as regards the situation in the supreme court, a number of further developments have taken place. on 20 april 2020, the constitutional tribunal held that the resolution of the supreme court of 23 january 2020, implementing the preliminary ruling of the european court of justice of 19 november 2019, was void. that resolution found that judges appointed at the request of the new national council for the judiciary are not permitted to adjudicate cases, and also invalidated all the rulings handed down by members of the disciplinary chamber. as regards the appointment of the new first president of the supreme court, the new law on the judiciary amended the procedure for appointment. following the expiration of the mandate of the previous first president on 25 may 2020, the president of the republic appointed a new first president of the supreme court. there was also a relevant development relating to the execution of european arrest warrants with regard to poland. in the course of this year, some member state courts suspended the execution of the european arrest warrant due to further concerns regarding judicial independence in poland. most recently, the court of amsterdam temporarily suspended the execution of two european arrest warrants to poland submitted to it until the european court of justice has rendered its answers regarding two requests for a preliminary ruling. this shows that there is a real concern of mutual trust in the judiciary, which is very worrying. finally, let me note that recently the ministry of justice announced that works are under way to prepare a second part of the justice reform. so far no legislative proposal is on the table. while justice reforms to improve its efficiency are always welcome, the manner in which the judiciary in poland might be further reformed should not deepen the existing rule-of-law concerns. to conclude i regret to say that the recent developments show that the situation has not improved since the last plenary debate in february. rule-of-law concerns still persist, and let me state clearly that the commission will use all the instruments at its disposal to address them. this includes infringements in cases of breach of eu law, but infringements are only one tool and not all rule-of-law concerns can be addressed through infringements. it is therefore essential also to have an open dialogue with the polish authorities and stakeholders. since the beginning of the mandate, the commission has expressed its readiness for dialogue. we are open to having such a dialogue with the polish authorities in an objective manner and with a mutual aim of solving existing problems. the upcoming first annual rule of law report, covering all member states, which the commission will adopt soon, can be a further basis for such dialogue. this report has been prepared through a transparent process with the engagement of member states, based on a common methodology and in an objective manner. a joint effort is needed to address the rule-of-law matters involving all the european institutions and the commission appreciates the continuous support of the european parliament in that respect. i also welcome the fact that the german presidency has put on the agenda of the general affairs council on 22 september 2020 a state-of-play item concerning the situation of the rule of law in poland. we also need to reinforce our rule-of-law toolbox by a mechanism in the framework of protecting the future eu budget, and the commission made a proposal in this regard in 2018. i am also grateful for the opportunity to react to your oral question on the situation of the lgbti community in poland. the commission has received numerous petitions and letters about discriminatory language, false accusations and hate speech used in poland. we are also fully aware of the fact that more than a hundred regions and municipalities have adopted charters, declarations and resolutions, several of which regrettably demonstrate the aim to deny fundamental rights and freedoms to lgbti people. i want to stress the following: equality for all and equality in all of its senses is one of the major priorities of president von der leyen. the commission strongly condemns any form of discrimination, violence and hatred against lgbti people and activists and is committed to fighting any form of discrimination in the eu. it has always made clear that discrimination against lgbti people has no place in the european union. all eu member states and state authorities alike, without exception, must respect eu values and fundamental rights. as indicated by the honourable members, the court of justice of the eu has recently clarified the interpretation of the equal treatment directive with regard to public declarations expressing a discriminatory opinion or intention about the potential recruitment of lgbti persons. the court referred to several factors which have to be taken into consideration in assessing whether such declarations are covered by the directive. the court pointed out that these issues are of a factual nature. the declarations issued by polish regional or municipal councils vary in their nature. some seem mainly to focus on education or so—called ideology, whereas others also refer to the selection of employees, albeit in a rather vague way. the commission has not yet received any specific complaint by any person alleging violation of his or her rights derived from eu law following the adoption of the above declarations. however, the commission is thoroughly examining the situation in the light of the prohibition of discrimination enshrined in the eu acquis. it is assessing the precise purpose, scope and effects of the declarations at issue in view of a possible violation of eu law. should there be a violation, the commission, as guardian of the eu treaties, will make use of its powers. the commission has already, on several occasions, encouraged the polish authorities to revoke discriminatory resolutions, charters and similar statements. it has reminded the polish authorities of the importance of promoting respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, social inclusion, gender equality and combating discrimination. we stand ready to support the polish authorities in combating discrimination, including on the basis of sexual orientation. the commission – my colleague helena dalli – will present an lgbti equality strategy in november this year. within this framework, the commission will continue to provide appropriate funding to foster a conducive and sustainable environment for lgbti civil-society organisations. in addition, the commission will maintain and encourage a structured and open dialogue and consultation with civil society. eu values and fundamental rights must be respected by member states and state authorities alike. discrimination against lgbti people has no place in the eu and the commission will continue to fight against all kinds of discrimination.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. thank you for the detailed words just now. the polish government has used the last few months to foment hatred and exclusion against lgbti people. what a shame! it is particularly in times of crisis that it is necessary to keep society together and not to promote division. the pis government's salami tactics are cutting off more and more people's rights: first lgbtq people and now also women, who already receive little real formal protection from violence and are even more at risk due to massive government restrictions on their rights. as the european union, we must ensure that our fundamental values are upheld and that all people - indeed all people - can live a life of self-determination and freedom without fear. states that do not comply with this will no longer be able to receive eu funds, and only a rule of law mechanism in the next multiannual financial framework can guarantee this.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. madam vice-president of the commission! i stand before the house today as a representative of the group of the european people's party, but also - and perhaps above all - as a polish member of parliament, because it is my duty to speak out and to take a stand on this report in the name of truth, in the name of confronting what is written in the report with reality. who can do this more objectively than the one who lives in this country? of course, i wish there wasn't a report. i would like and hope that the moment will come when polish society will choose the authorities well enough that they will not put themselves above the law. because this report is an indictment of a government that is putting itself above the law, above the constitution, and also harassing those who think differently. and we'll probably hear some of the shouting and the cursing that this is ideology, that this is intentions. no, this report is a set of facts and a description of events. very well balanced. there is no room for the authorities to discriminate against anyone in any european country. if that is the case, then we must say in this house that it cannot be so. the government is not allowed to bias the courts and try to be the courts for its own interests. you can't allow the independence of the media to be compromised just because someone's opinion doesn't please the authorities. there is also no tolerance for hate speech, and when words of aggression come from the mouths of politicians at the highest level, then we have to respond, we have to respond strongly. that's why we won't rest in poland. it's our job, the polish society. but i would like to say on behalf of the whole ppe group that we must accept this report because it is simply - unfortunately - true.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the report on poland: in december 2017, three years ago, the commission launched the article 7 procedure since then stagnation in the council, and thus, intentionally or not, further encouragement to continue the anti-democratic path. the last weeks and months have once again clearly shown that the pis government does not care about democracy, the rule of law, or fundamental rights. there's been no talk of an independent judiciary for a long time. media and more and more organizations are coming under the control of the pis. instead of a clear fight against violence against women, an announced withdrawal from the istanbul convention. we are seeing massive discrimination and harassment of people because of their sexual orientation and identity and explicit support for so-called lgbti-free zones. if the member states continue to sit on the council's sidelines, the eu will lose its credibility as a continent of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the member states must finally do something. stop being an accomplice to orbán, pis and co. you've got to make your position clear. incorporate a binding and efficient rule of law mechanism in the forthcoming budget. now you have the chance to safeguard our values for all the people of europe. don't let this opportunity pass you by.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, it is now almost three years since the commission has launched the article 7 procedure against poland and we are still going round in circles, as has also been highlighted by mr lópez aguilar. and since then we see poland crossing red line after red line, and the strategy of the member states is appeasement. but in the meantime, the situation has got worse, obviously. we see lgbti-free zones in poland, in europe, the return of witch hunts in europe – something i thought i would never see. today several ngos have lodged a legal complaint at the commission regarding the lgbti-free zones, and judges in other eu member states are now refusing to cooperate with judges in poland and to use the european arrest warrant. such civic action is very welcome, but why are the commission and the council not doing their job on this? because frankly, madam commissioner, after three years i don’t want to hear the word ‘dialogue’ anymore. we’ve been in dialogue with mr orbán for 10 years and look at where we are now. it is impunity: dialogue equals impunity by now. it is time for action. i understand that commissioner jourová and commissioner reynders are ready to take action and to pursue the two pending procedures which are in court, but you’re being blocked by ms von der leyen. ms von der leyen is going to address this chamber on wednesday, and i’m sure she’s going to speak very moving words on the rule of law. but ms von der leyen, it’s time to act, it’s time to deliver, and i do not want to hear her say anymore that nobody is perfect –because impunity is encouraging other governments inside and outside europe. how can we have moral authority, as ms sippel said, when we are giving support to the people in belarus, when we are too chicken to tackle the governments of poland and the governments of hungary, and many others. it’s time to act. now!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, when we look at the situation in poland and when we look at the findings of this report, we can clearly state that this is not just a systematic breach of the rule of law anymore, but this is a fully fledged rule of law crisis, in the middle, in the heart, of the european union. if you think that i’m exaggerating the situation, or that i’m overstating something, i would like to give you one number, and maybe you are going to rethink that judgment. currently 10% of all polish judges, one in ten – in some districts, every single judge – is under urgent threat of being targeted with disciplinary measures. what was their crime? they think that defending the rule of law and defending the independence of the judiciary is something that you can actually say out loud. this is an unprecedented attack on eu values and the very foundation of the european union, and probably not one, not two, and maybe not even five, court of justice of the eureopan union rulings are going to be enough when the ruling party is trying to take political control of the judiciary. we have to stand not only with the judges in poland, but we have to stand with the eu citizens that are demanding access to justice in poland. as the co-chair of the lgbti intergroup, i can tell you that every week, every single week, we receive more messages of worry and sometimes, i must say, despair from the lgbti community in poland. every week there are new attacks, every week there are new lies spread, there is new anti-lgbti propaganda, and i don’t know what to tell them anymore, madam commissioner, because they all ask the same question: when is the european union finally going to act? the silence of the commission over this summer has been screaming into the faces of all of those people whose rights are under attack right now. and i urge you: do something, start an infringement procedure against lgbti-free zones in poland now, madam commissioner. lastly, and i hope, especially, that mr duda is watching but also to our colleagues from the polish ruling party here in this chamber: look at me, look at marc, look at malin, look at maria. we are not an ideology. we are human beings. we are made out of flesh and blood. we want to have exactly the same fundamental human rights like everyone else. and i know that deep inside of you, you actually know that, so stop using us and the lgbti community in poland for your disgusting political agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, above all i need to underline that there are no lgbt-free zones in poland. i say to ms reintke: there is only a left-wing activist who creates displays and illegal signs and sends you a picture and you believe it. so once again i call on you to maintain the seriousness of your office. but to get to the point: thank you very much for providing us, at last, with a definition of the rule of law. in your interpretation, the rule of law in poland is being violated by, firstly, the adoption of the anti-terrorist law – even if you know there are similar laws in the other member states. secondly, by the appointment of the judges – which is done in the same way as in spain. you know, in poland the judicial council is appointed by parliament, like in spain, by the same majority as in spain, and you say: ‘in spain everything is good but in poland you harm the rule of law’. and this is equal treatment? then in your definition, the existence of just one big conservative television channel harms the rule of law. and merely holding a debate on abortion – not approving anything, only having a debate – harms the rule of law, in your definition. and the adoption of a solution in civil law to defend the good name of poland, which is a fundamental right of every citizen and every country, you say that this is still harming the rule of law. then the prohibition of the political activities of judges, which is a fundamental thing for the independence of judges – and we have this in the constitution, by the way – in your opinion this is against the rule of law. the same thing when we don’t provide leftist organisations with more money out of public funds. and finally, the adoption of regional family rights law. yes, it is true: in your interpretation, defending family law is harming the rule of law. so to conclude: everything which is not leftist is harming the rule of law in your interpretation. that’s why i need to ask you something: did you even understand what the rule of law is? do you know what democracy is? the fundamental thing about democracy and european values is freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and the right to create a political group, a christian political group, a conservative political group, like robert schuman did. i need to tell you something: we in poland know this kind of ideology. in the past, the communists used the language of ‘i tell you...’. the communists called censorship ‘the principles of freedom’: the restriction of religious practice, the freedom of conscience. and today you call a left-wing bandit beating a man a child who has been arrested for his beliefs, and supporting the traditional family you call an ‘attack on tolerance’. i tell you something, and i want to underline something: i am not surprised that the new monument in germany of lenin – a murderer, a tyrant – does not bother you. but the maintenance of family values in poland does. shame on you, shame on you!
, on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i say to mr jaki: shame on you for trying to trample on my rights. i stand here proud, in solidarity with my lgbti colleagues in poland. today, lgbti people in poland are under attack in the streets and in the courts, as our colleagues making the atlas of hate have shown. i encourage you all to visit it on the web. i think it is important to recognise that the rule of law, democracy and respect for fundamental rights go together. you cannot take away one and keep ‘a little bit of this and a little bit of that’. so we can see that the lack of independence for the courts, the lack of media freedom and pluralism, the attacks on women’s rights highlighted here in the chamber and the attacks on the lgbti community go together. we will not let this go on. we will not let the bullying go on. this house will stand up for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, and we will have an eu budget that doesn’t give money to those member states like poland that cannot respect fundamental rights and democracy and the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in acerra, in the province of naples, on the night between friday and saturday, a girl died after being trampled on by her brother on a scooter, who did not accept her relationship with a transgender boy. today in europe we are still light years away from eradicating this culture of hatred and discrimination, which takes too many innocent victims every year. it is time to do much more against homotransphobia, especially when public authorities are the megaphone, as in poland, where a third of the country has decided to identify lgbt people as a threat to polish culture and identity. lgbt-free zones are a real attack on european values and must be treated as such. i therefore reiterate my call for concrete action from the commission, for an infringement procedure to be opened against poland and for any funding to be blocked which may directly or indirectly benefit local authorities which have declared themselves lgbt-free zones.
mr president, i want to talk about the attempt to intimidate judges in poland. i want to tell the judges that we will never turn our backs on what is happening, that justice matters more than electoral majorities. but today i need to talk about the ethos of europe, that we are all different and yet all equal. that a german, a maltese, a pole and a latvian national could walk down the street in a village in poland and expect the same rights and the same level of protection. that any jew or catholic, atheist or devout of any religion could do the same. that we could all feel safe in every little town across our europe. that straight, gay, lesbian, bi, trans or non-binary, you are free to live your life without fear, without recrimination, without arrest, because that is what our europe is, and that’s why we remain the beacon of hope in a world that is under threat, because while we may all be different we are all equal. having lgbt-free zones means having europe-free zones and if there is one corner of this union where europeans are not welcome, then that is one corner too many. so to those people who are feeling desperate, to those parents who are terrified for their children’s safety, to those young people who expect us to keep our promise to them that they can live their lives freely: your family matters, too. yours is not an invasive ideology, yours is a polish ideology, a european ideology. so in conclusion, we have your back: europe stands with you because we understand that while we are all different, we are all equal. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i apologize to our lgbt+ friends and family! i'm sorry that the european parliament, the european commission, the council can't protect your rights. we're not creating a community where everyone is equal, everyone feels safe, regardless of gender or sexual orientation. poland has not respected the human rights of lgbt+ people for years. no partnerships, let alone marriage equality, no modern law of gender equality, no anti-discrimination education. lgbt+ people are not protected from hate speech and hate crimes. now there's the government's hatred of lgbt+ people, police brutality and "lgbt+ free zones". the article 7 procedure was initiated against poland 33 months ago. over the past three years, we have witnessed the polish government violate yet more areas of the rule of law. where is the european commission? how long will he monitor, appeal and recommend? where is the mechanism linking the rule of law to eu funds? when will the governments of poland and hungary stop feeling impunity? madam vice-president, what is still needed for the commission to be effective?
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. poland is a country i love, but decisions have been made that i absolutely cannot be indifferent to. in 2016, 40,000 uniformed service officers who worked for the good of poland were deprived of their pensions overnight. their service period up to 1989 was considered to be non-existent and reduced after 1989. these people have been fighting for their rights for years, but their right to a trial is limited. these are mostly elderly people, often with disabilities, focused on surviving day to day on a level that is insulting to human dignity. 160 euros is the monthly pension that they were awarded for life. a thousand have died without justice, 61 have committed suicide or died of nervous breakdown. by introducing the repressive law, the polish government breached, inter alia, the principle of citizens' trust in the state and the law it establishes, the principle of non-retroactivity of the law, and moreover violated the right to social security after reaching retirement age, thus violating the polish constitution and the european convention on human rights. this is unacceptable behavior. you can't punish someone for acts they didn't commit, and without a trial, especially since the officers in question were verified positively and after the transformation served in a free, independent, democratic poland. the officials have already asked the european parliament for help once, and two years ago there was an official hearing on the matter, but nothing was done for them. please, let's not be indifferent again.
mr president, the polish government is one of the best examples of the authoritarian drift in europe, one of the main exponents of the reactionary international which uses sexual and reproductive rights and the body of women as a battleground. an authoritarianism that we also see, and that has been preyed upon, with the lgbt community, and we see it in the gay-free zones, a totally unacceptable and homophobic policy. he attacks anyone who challenges his policies, as happened to polish sociologist pankowski, who has received threats for taking a stand against homophobic policies and for his anti-racist and anti-fascist work in poland. and while all this is happening, the european union is still accepting it, it is still accepting the blackmail of the far right. a clear example is the acceptance of the xenophobic policy of the polish government, which has simply removed the possibility of establishing a fair quota system for refugees and migrants in the new migration pact. it's a shame, you know. we cannot continue to look the other way with what is happening, with the authoritarian drift we are seeing in europe.
mr. chairman, please! i will speak in polish and silesian a bit. in our language, in slavonic, it is said: there is no shame, mr. jak? aren't you ashamed of yourselves? for five years you have been violating the basic principles of the european union: the rule of law, human rights and civil liberties. you have made the constitutional court a puppet, you have made the public media a propaganda tube, you are cooking hell for women. you have made poland into a ridiculous cabaret, a laughing stock on the international stage. you've sacrificed your arrogance, your shoe, your xenophobia. you deny rights to all who do not want your vision of poland behind the walls, a country where the alliance of the throne and the altar rules. aren't you ashamed when you insult judges, aren't you ashamed when another lgbt person decides to emigrate? you don't want to recognize the silesian ethnic minority, you're afraid of the silesian language, you deliberately hide the black cards of history, including the tragedy of upper silesia. you're scaring people that poland will lose european funds. don't worry, that money could bypass your misdeeds and go straight to the county. real change is possible, and the pis government must be punished for its actions, not the citizens. i'll tell you one last thing: whatever you do, however far you go in the policy of leaving the union, silesia will remain in europe this is our place. and to our friends in europe, please don't let us walk along. poland is not pis.
in writing. mr agilar's report does not represent the appropriate level of substance. it is impossible not to notice that poland is trying to teach democracy to politicians from a country where new ideologies are beginning to resemble totalitarianism. children are taught about masturbation in schools and are encouraged to 'denounce their parents if they commit homophobic crimes'. it's been done before. in the totalitarian ussr, where pavka morozov became a hero, handing over his parents to stalinist thugs just because they had different views than the communist authorities. it was in spain that the parliament recently voted to kill people, or euthanasia, which had already been practiced in the past for the oldest coronavirus patients, who were selected for treatment not by doctors, but by nursing home workers. it's a bit like the other totalitarianism, the german death camps of world war ii, where those who could no longer work were sent to the death chamber. people from such countries try to teach poland. they say that we lack the rule of law, even though the ruling party has recently confirmed its mandate in democratic elections, winning an independent majority for the second time in a row. i ask the politicians who are attacking poland: where were you when under the rule of our opponents the special services entered the "wprost" editorial office? why did you remain silent when the judges of the constitutional court were elected, even though the terms of the previous ones were not yet completed? you are hypocrites.
in writing. the rule of law debates in poland and hungary show that many members of this house believe in whatever they do not think for themselves. the truth is that the allegations against poland not only do not represent the reality, but the opposite of it. poland is accused of introducing into the justice system solutions that already exist in many eu member states. secondly, poland is accused of intolerance when statistics show that it is in western european countries that violence against national minorities is increasing due to anti-semitism, islamophobia or xenophobia. in germany, for example, there are five racially motivated attacks a day. where's the equal standards? where is the respect for eu law? after all, the eu has no competence in this area. welcome to poland. you'll be surprised at what you'll find. you'll see a country that's safe and tolerant. poles are an open nation, which is reflected in our history, culture and traditions. for centuries, national minorities expelled from other countries, such as the jews from spain, found refuge in poland. just like cars don't burn in poland today, piles never burned here. if you are not afraid of different opinions and freedom of speech, respect the right of nations to their own traditions and appreciate the values of our civilization then you will see the truth about poland.
in writing. do the meps who are once again attacking poland for allegedly breaking the rule of law know the basic facts and are aware of the ongoing reform of the judiciary, or are they just succumbing to the propaganda of the political opposition in poland? mr aguilar, whose report we are debating, has effectively erased from memory the fact that in spain the judicial council is elected in the same way as in poland, that is, by the parliament, but it is in poland that the rule of law is violated and not in spain. he also forgot the dante scenes in his country, where the police brutally pacified the demonstrations in catalonia, not sparing women and the elderly. how does this relate to the right to assemble and peacefully express one's views? we have seen similar situations in france during the workers' and trade union protests. in poland, for five years, since law and justice has been in power, opposition demonstrations have been protected, not dispersed by the police. that's why the allegations of lawbreaking are obviously false. for example, the violation of the rule of law in poland, which you have taken to the flags of the fight against the polish government, are the so-called lgbt-free zones. it's a vulgar lie from one of the left-wing activists who invented this action in order to discredit poland's good name on the international stage. we are firmly against the defamation of poland's good name.
in writing. there are currently 3000 pharmaceutical active ingredients on the market. the european parliament's legal background on pharmaceuticals in the environment is very rich. as provided for in the priority substances directive, this strategic approach should result in proposals for measures at eu or member state level to address the potential environmental impact of pharmaceutical substances, with a view to reducing emissions and losses of such substances into the aquatic environment, taking into account public health needs and cost-effectiveness. we need to promote a new awareness of the production and post-production of pharmaceutical substances through practices that regulate not so much the legal framework under which pharmaceuticals are produced, but what happens when they come into contact with the environment. of course, all measures taken should not in any way restrict patients' access to medicines. the resolution does well to highlight this issue, although caution is needed, especially as some elements may be too far-reaching, which can be challenging in the context of the current pandemic and the ongoing shortage of medicines. i support most of the suggestions in the resolution, especially those which have a specific reference to supporting the development of pharmaceuticals which are less harmful to the environment and promote a more ecological concept. the eu acquis in this respect covers water quality, endocrine disruptors, antibiotic resistance and the regulation on veterinary medicinal products.
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. minister! the conclusions of the european council in july this year were indeed very optimistic. the people of the european union have heard of the prime ministers' agreement, and therefore of their willingness to help the economies of individual countries, cities or unemployed people. so we can't just stand still, because the pandemic crisis is ongoing, and we've had the first wave, and we may have the next wave, and we need to be reactive and fast. we just can't stand still. let us start using the financial instruments we have already prepared to combat the economic crisis, because europe will lose and lose the reputation of the european union as well. at the same time, mr president, i would like to add that we cannot harm poorer countries, because the plastic tax agreed at 0.8 euros and now presented as 2 euros is unfavourable at the moment. likewise, the carbon tax that we're going to have from 2021 is also a disadvantage, i want to make that very clear. for example, poland will cost about 10 billion euros.
mr president, we can already feel that the new european loan and new own resources are almost synonyms, right? i mean, let’s be honest, we need own resources in order to pay back the loan that we are going to take, because the situation for me looks like the crisis of 2007. you’re buying a house and then you’re facing the risk of not having an income to pay it back. we don’t want our children to pay it, nor the bank to take it away. so we need own resources to secure the future of the union without taking hostage the budget and the payments of the member states. that’s one thing. by midnight tomorrow, this house i expect to unanimously adopt the position of the parliament on react—eu. this is yet another example of cohesion policy securing the societies and the help of the member states because of covid – another example of cohesion policy saving our people. a huge part of that fund, of react—eu, is going to be taken from that loan. that is another reason to talk about carefully designed own resources which are going to support the budget without taking hostage the member states’ payments to our budget. so we need another thing. we need the rule of law in that regulation, because our citizens have to be sure that there is transparency in every cent that we are going to spend. the european union is not like a cat; we don’t have nine lives, so we have to act now.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the minister and the honourable members for all their interventions and input. as i have said in other encounters, i don’t shy away from an open debate and very much value the position of the european parliament. as we continue the modernisation of the own resources system, i’m sure we will have many more opportunities to discuss this important issue in the future. without delving into technical details, let me offer some final remarks. as you know, negotiations are currently ongoing between the parliament, the german presidency and the commission. in that sense, the commission will continue to carry out its role and duty as an honest broker, and stands ready to offer all the necessary assistance. all the institutions agree on the need for new own resources to finance the repayment of the borrowing. therefore, i believe that it should be possible to agree on a powerful political commitment to own resources as part of the final mff package. let me recall that the multiannual financial framework and next generation eu legislation is a package. only quick approval of all – and may i stress all – legal texts would allow the launching of the eu recovery plan. interinstitutional negotiations must progress as fast as possible and will require the willingness to make compromises on all sides. as you recall, on 9 may we celebrated 70 years since the schuman declaration, a founding moment for our union. robert schuman reminds us of our historical responsibility as europeans. as he said, and i quote, ‘europe will not be made all at once, or according to a single plan. it will be built through concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity’. next generation eu, the recovery plan for europe, is our opportunity for a concrete achievement, creating real european solidarity, and i think it’s high time to seize this opportunity for citizens, for businesses, for europe.
the president of the council. members of the european parliament! do you seriously think we don't take you seriously? i am a little surprised at this concern which one member here felt he had to express. we all know that without your support, without a majority in the european parliament, there will be no multiannual financial framework, no next generation eu, no own resources reform. and please take us at our word: we want negotiations on an equal footing. i thank all those who have once again referred to the ambitious timetable. we are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to help you reach sensible and courageous conclusions. our timetable didn't sit well with all of you. we said we wanted to be finished by the end of september. that's our goal. because we know, of course, that the national ratification procedures will not be easy. i say this as the representative of a country with a federal structure, in which not only the german bundestag but also the representative body of the german states must vote. it's very ambitious. but we stand by our word, not only to you, but above all to the citizens who have suffered massively as a result of the crisis. i would like to say that i am not in favour of the idea that we are acting irresponsibly towards the younger generation. this proposal is generational. the money we are going to raise with your support is for the fight against youth unemployment, for the building of a better health system, for the strengthening of solidarity in the european union. we're not leaving anyone behind! what good is it to young people if they're unemployed now, but we may be less indebted in the next 20 years? that's a decision we have to make now. we have put the interests of the younger generation in the centre of our decisions. yes, raising taxes, imposing taxes is probably the most controversial thing in a democracy. we must justify this to the citizens. you need majorities. it's a little easier with you, but we need unanimity in the council. we need the consent of all the member states, of all the national parliaments, because ratification by national parliaments is necessary. we are not acting in a vacuum either, but we are acting on the basis of article 311 of the treaty on european union. there is a very specific regulation on what a reform of own resources should look like. this is not a coup or an attack on democracy, as certain circles, not only here in the european parliament but also in some national parliaments, are trying to convince citizens over and over again that this is democracy. i do not see how we can make the bonds of democracy in the european union stronger than by placing a special responsibility on the national parliaments, and not just on the european parliament or the commission or the council. but it is not just about new taxes and new revenues. yes, this is important, mr president. but we also want to promote the social and ecological reconstruction of europe. we want to do more for social justice, because if we really introduce the plastic tax, then there is a steering effect. we want to help make sure that even more plastic is recycled in the future. of course, this has a consequence: perhaps the revenue will fall again. but that depends on how you, how we, together, design these taxes in detail. the exact nature of these levies and taxes, and the road map which the commission intends to present, will also be the focus of the negotiations between the three institutions - parliament, the council and the commission. we push the envelope, we take our responsibilities seriously. i am glad to see that there are many, many signs of constructive support and that there is a bit of controversy at the end, which should be taken for granted given the importance of these issues. i would like to thank you very much for this important debate. i have learned a great deal and we are taking this into the negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament and i look forward to a positive conclusion soon.
all the states are net beneficiaries of the european union, even those that contribute the most and this pedagogy, this truth, should be told to all the citizens of the european union and the council does not always do it and usually when there are those long-running councils they hide from their citizens that even those who are the so-called 'net contributors' receive much more than what they put into the budget of the european union and it is easy to see the benefits of the internal market. i appreciate your words and your availability, mr roth, but we know that the german presidency is not the council, or that not everyone in the council has the same will, but i am sure that they will be able to drag - drag, that is the word - the other member states along. the european parliament has been waiting, it has spoken of the rule of law. we have been waiting for two years and it is a legislative procedure of co-decision, that is a package, yes, madam, but obviously we will only give our consent to the multiannual financial framework, and i assume that the council will also give its consent if there is a recovery fund. the recovery fund hides the fragility and the smallness of the multiannual financial framework and, from this point of view, we consider it to be a package. but we must now proceed with what takes the longest, namely the ratification by the national parliaments of the authorization for the european commission to go to the markets, and because we do not want to cut back in the future or penalize the citizens, we propose a binding timetable and here i also ask for the council's help and understanding, it cannot be declarations or proclamations, it must be a binding timetable that is in the interinstitutional agreement and in this way we protect the future of the european union and the citizens, now, and we will get the necessary revenue to meet the challenges and to pay the interest and repayments on the loan that will be made.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 15 september 2020 and the final vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the fidesz-kdnp delegation has already indicated following the july ep resolution that the position of the majority of the ep, which sharply attacks and rejects the historic budget agreement reached in the european council, is contrary to the interests of hundreds of millions of european citizens and therefore unacceptable. all european countries are affected by the second wave of the epidemic, which makes it even more important to adopt the seven-year framework budget and the recovery fund as soon as possible. the majority of the ep, contrary to the common european interest, does not support the council agreement and has even irresponsibly attacked it. this attack is causing an irreparable delay in the common union response to the social and economic crisis caused by the novel coronavirus pandemic. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus. most of these new so-called own resources proposals would divert more resources from the poorer member states to the rich. the ep's majority is again using the tool of self-serving political pressure to secure a binding timetable for the introduction of new revenue, without which it will not accept the historic decision of the heads of state or government. the ep has no real power: the 27 member states decide on this issue, and the national parliaments approve and ratify it.
in writing. the draft council decision under discussion provides for an increase in the union's budgetary capacity and the establishment of a new basket of own resources. the adoption of this act is necessary because it conditions the commission's ability to raise eur 750 billion on the financial markets to feed the eu reconstruction fund. the european parliament has for many years called for a change in the way the eu budget is financed by reducing the contributions of the member states, which currently account for the lion's share of the union budget (around 70%). this would change the dynamic of budgetary negotiations, in which member states' representatives place less emphasis on shaping community policies and focus more on achieving a favourable balance between their own commitments to the union budget and the funds they receive from it. the additional eu own resources, including the revenue from new taxes, should make it possible to repay the loans taken out by the commission. if they are not, the debt will have to be paid by the member states, and this will force cuts in community policies. i therefore share the consistent position of parliament, which insists on the introduction of new sources of budget revenue. unfortunately, the treaty procedure for adopting the council decision in question requires that it be ratified by all national parliaments. this creates the risk of rejection by parliaments of so-called savings countries, which are sceptical about the way the funds from the reconstruction fund are distributed, or of veto by any of the countries that are reluctant to establish a budgetary conditionality mechanism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prospects for shipping are truly frightening: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the objectives of the treaty. that is why i would like to congratulate mrs paulus on the excellent work she has done on this regulation which goes beyond adapting european legislation to the requirements of the imo for a fuel consumption data collection system, but makes the voice of this parliament heard loud and clear and calls for a binding 40% reduction in annual co2 emissions from ships by 2030. but it does not stop there, because shipping, shipping, not only damages the climate, but also pollutes the air we breathe, with its dangerous emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, putting public health at risk. that is why i am pleased that it contains another call to the european commission to work on the extension of the sulphur and nitrogen oxide emission control areas in all european seas, including the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. last tuesday i had the pleasure of attending a ministerial conference of transport ministers on green shipping. i was a little scared, actually. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from shipping. but if we want to achieve ambitious climate goals - and we do, including avoiding dangerous tipping points in the climate system - then everyone has to do their part. that is why i am glad that there is broad agreement here in the house that we are tackling shipping and that we want to include it in the emissions trading system. i would like to thank first of all pernille weiss as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, but also all the others. we, the epp, are clear: we want proper legislation. we will see on wednesday that an impact assessment is not necessarily bad for the climate, and that is why we want an impact assessment here. the commission should make careful analyses and then come up with a proposal which also takes into account the polluter principle and recognises prior contributions. then i think we're on the right track together. the epp will, however, support the report in any case. we ask for our amendment no 63 to be accepted. but we want this parliament to send a clear signal that shipping must finally take its responsibility.
madam president, today we are discussing the system for collecting data on greenhouse gas emissions from shipping and its adaptation to the new international imo regulations. but above all, today's debate serves to shed light on one sector, the shipping sector, which is one of the very few that does not have a timetable and a stringent legislation for its decarbonisation; when, moreover, it represents 2.3% of all global emissions. that is why we are calling today, among other things, for the urgent inclusion of this sector in the eu's existing emissions trading system and for clear limits on the access of the most polluting ships to our ports. why would you do that? because if we don't, we can compromise the whole climate goals and the paris agreement and at the same time undermine the efforts that are already being made by many other sectors in europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this very rich debate. it’s inspiring to see that this parliament remains committed to tackling emissions in the maritime sector. together with you, the commission wants to ensure that the maritime sector duly contributes to our climate objectives. the commission has doubts that the european reporting rules for shipping emissions are the right place for some of your proposals, but the commission does stress again that it will work vigorously on extending the eu ets to cover maritime, as well as on other initiatives to reduce maritime emissions. we will duly assess the impact of such initiatives. importantly, we will continue to take due account of the proposals in this parliament for the european reporting rules for maritime emissions and the reform of european emission trading. the upcoming climate target plan for 2030 will show this ambition, and the commission looks forward to continuing to work with you.
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 15 september 2020 and the final vote on wednesday 16 september 2020. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the integration of maritime transport into the eu ets, the reduction of co2 emissions from ships by 40% by 2030 and, finally, the maximum reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from vessels in port are the most ambitious challenges facing european shipping today. this is also a necessary contribution by the maritime sector to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the european economy, which aims to achieve full climate neutrality for europe by 2050. however, it should be borne in mind that a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the proposed regulation on issues such as the competitiveness of european maritime transport and employment in the maritime sector is needed for these solutions to be implemented. equally important is the availability of advanced technologies to reduce emissions effectively. there is a lot of talk about alternative fuels for ships, such as hydrogen for propulsion, but these are not yet widely used. without adequate support for investment in innovative technologies and infrastructure, the gradual decarbonisation of maritime transport will not be possible.
the next item is the report by mrs hannah neumann, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on arms exports: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp (2020/2003 (ini)) (a9-0137/2020).
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 15 september 2020 and the final vote on wednesday 16 september 2020.
the next item is the report by mr sven mykser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement (2019/2200(ini)) (a9-0136/2020).
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 15 september 2020 and the final vote on wednesday 16 september 2020.
mr. chairman, please! i think that belarus must be the subject of the next council and that it is even more important than turkish issues. from belarus, from minsk to brussels is closer than from turkey, and even closer than from mali. belarus is a neighbour of the union, a european country, a member of the eastern partnership. belarus has also been the target of russian hybrid intervention for several weeks. it has been the site of demonstrations for over thirty days in minsk and many other cities. poland was one of the few eu countries to offer a support plan for the morawiecki plan from the beginning of the crisis. the visegrad group was also persuaded to this plan. the 'european marshall plan' will be proposed at this next council by polish prime minister mateusz morawiecki. so, are we going to see effective eu intervention in the context of putin already offering one and a half billion dollars and we only a few million euros? will we defend this society ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! as my predecessor said, today we are all in solidarity with the belarusians, and that is above factional divisions. the european parliament has a huge role to play in this dramatic crisis and i think it must immediately establish relations with the coordination committee representing the belarusian society and its representative svetlana cichanouska. the belarusian people also want justice. he won't get it at home when torture, beatings and arrests are routine. but we have some tools. i have a list of 650 omon and police officers who were awarded large cash prizes at the end of august. they are the ones who should be on the personal sanctions list, they are the ones who should not be allowed into the european union, and their names should be publicly known. they cannot be anonymous and such tools should be used as part of the support group for the belarusian society.
mr. chairman, please! the peaceful protests of belarusian citizens against the unfair elections, and the simultaneous aggressive attempts of the authorities to suppress these protests, are becoming a growing problem for the whole of europe. the belarusian society is determined to fight for a free and democratic belarus, and the belarusian authorities are not stopping in their brutal attempts to suppress the freedom struggle. the vague stance of russia, which appears to be supporting lukashenka in his activities, could threaten peace and political stability in the eastern part of the continent. previously, the european union was helpless in the face of russian aggression in crimea and eastern ukraine. we have not learned anything from these dramatic events. we cannot repeat the same mistakes, we cannot leave our brothers in belarus alone. it is in the interest of europe, as well as poland, that the sovereignty of the belarusian state is preserved. we must demand the repetition of the rigged elections, the release of political prisoners, the punishment of the torturers and the end of the terror that is currently unfolding before our eyes. to achieve these objectives, a united and determined attitude of all the member states of the community is necessary. we cannot remain passive: let us act and be united in action. solidarity with belarus.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. lebanon cries and cries for help. the situation before the explosion was already very dramatic. not only were strategic grain stocks destroyed, but most importantly the supply of medical supplies brought into the country in connection with the coronavirus pandemic. if you add to this the hunger, the dire situation of syrian and palestinian refugees, people losing their jobs, and the pandemic, the situation of the most vulnerable lebanese is dramatic. one third of beirut's homeless population are children. let's get this straight. these are little kids. today, as the high representative has said, we must actually direct these funds to the beneficiaries, and my country has done so. two organizations, redemptoris missio and aid to the church in need, with the support of the polish army, have recently delivered tons of food and disinfectants. but the aid that should be going to the poorest is much more needed, and that is the task of the european union.
mr president, mr high representative, this summer in lebanon it rained like a monsoon. the catastrophic consequences of the explosion in beirut's port have only exacerbated what was already a deep economic and political crisis in the country, mired for months in protests and social discontent. a country which, as we know, has suffered the turmoil in the region and which has made a gigantic effort in recent years to take in refugees. the european parliament is therefore calling today for a common position between the european institutions and the member states on the reconstruction, the necessary reconstruction of lebanon. a coordinated position. all of them. and that is why it will also be necessary in lebanon to investigate those responsible for the explosion, to assume the consequences, to set up a government at once and to carry out reforms. reforms to end a dysfunctional and sectarian method of governance, which has so often opened the door to corruption. lebanon needs us and, above all, the lebanese people are exhausted.
mr president, six weeks ago a massive explosion rocked the port area of lebanon’s capital beirut. it killed over 200 people, injured 7 000 and destroyed one third of the city. the blast hit both lebanese as well as refugee and migrant communities from syria who make up 30% of lebanon’s population. i’m proud to see the support provided by the european union to lebanon. firstly, the swift activation of the eu civil protection mechanism. secondly, immediate assistance from the eu copernicus satellite service and, thirdly, donations of money, medical supplies, food and equipment. we must continue helping the lebanese population at this time of need. we must also strongly encourage the lebanese authorities to undertake critical structural reforms. lebanon is a fragile state. let’s help support its people to maintain it and my message to the lebanese people is: you will rise like a phoenix from the ashes, i have no doubt.
the esteemed vice president! today we will discuss the case of the poisoning of alexei navalny. various laboratories have already confirmed that the russian oppositionist was poisoned with novichok, a substance that only the state laboratories of the russian federation have the capacity to produce and whose use was approved only by the highest leadership, namely vladimir putin. we wish alexei navalny a speedy recovery and hope that his health recovers from this cowardly attack. eliminating your own citizens is just one of the dirty methods in the kgb lieutenant colonel's arsenal. the putin regime is a threat to all of europe. my question is: how does the european union plan to protect its citizens from russian aggression in the face of the significant cuts in defence spending in the next long-term eu budget?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you and i thank the members for all their contributions to the debate. i don’t have a lot of time to summarise. we are using all the tools that we have at our disposal to contribute to the end of the violent repression that has been developing in belarus after the elections, which we don’t consider to legitimise lukashenko. we support a peaceful and democratic solution to the crisis through political engagement, restrictive measures, increased support to civil society and an independent media. this is what we can do and that’s what we are doing. don’t ask for things that are out of the competences of the european institutions. sometimes you ask for a decision that belongs to the member states for which, i’m sorry, but i cannot feel responsible. i try to work within the framework of the european institutions’ treaties and the capacities we have. and, believe me, it’s not always easy. we are still discussing about the sanctions in belarus, and my main purpose is to try to approve them with an agreement on the technical working groups of the council, in order to have it approved before european union council. but we will continue engaging on the situation in belarus, with all the tools at our disposal. on lebanon, we will require lebanon to implement reforms. helping to ensure the stability of the country and the stability of the region. we will allocate the resources we have, but you know that we are at the end of the financial perspective, and as long as we don’t have new resources, we cannot do more than we are doing. some of you ask about changing the position on hezbollah. for the time being, the eu position on hezbollah remains unchanged. the military wing of hezbollah is on the sanctions regime. the presence of hezbollah in the government is not new, and we are convinced that engaging in a constructive dialogue with all political parties gives the possibility of strengthening its institutions, including the lebanese armed forces and the state security agencies, and this is key for the stability of lebanon and the middle east. but in order to change the position on hezbollah, it would require, once again, unanimity from all member states, and this is not the case. finally, on the situation in russia, and in particular about mr navalny, we continue calling on russia to investigate this crime through a fully transparent procedure under the auspices of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons. for sure, we can expect that the poisoning of mr navalny will have an impact on european union-russia relations. we are going to discuss that at the next foreign affairs council. some of you talk about the possibility of this affecting nord stream 2, well this is the once again something that is out of the possibilities of the european institutions. what i can tell you is that the commission has never shown a lot of enthusiasm for this gas pipeline. the commission does not consider it a relevant infrastructure priority, but it is something that is up to the member states that have been pushing for this infrastructure to be built. this is apart from the scepticism from the commission, which has never shown a strong support for it. and finally, about the possibility of a sanction in russia with a kind of magnitsky-style regime. since i took office, i immediately launched a global human rights sanctions regime, which has been discussed once again in the last foreign affairs council. discussion continues in the council, legal acts are currently being drafted. i hope that what has happened with mr navalny will represent encouragement for the member states to stop discussing and start acting, and approving this human rights sanctions regime. in the same way that the americans speak of magnitsky legislation, we could call it our navalny sanctions regime. this would be a good way of taking stock of what is happening and to keep on the record for the future the fact that mr navalny’s name is associated with a sanctions regime for people who have violated human rights.
the joint debate is closed. the votes on the amendments to the motions for resolutions on the situation in belarus and on the motions for resolutions on the situation in russia and the poisoning of alexei navalny will take place on wednesday, 16 september 2020, and the final votes will take place on thursday, 17 september 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the credibility of the russian federation in international relations has been undermined in recent years, in particular by its actions in georgia and ukraine, which have resulted in the russian federation violating all principles violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of those states. other actions taken in violation of any international rules and standards also require explanations. this is confirmed by the suspicions directed at the kremlin about the poisoning of sergei skripal in the uk, the murder of a chechen fugitive in berlin's tiergarten park, and the hacking of the bundestag. there is a reasonable suspicion that the russian federation is behind the attack on alexei navalny. the examples above illustrate the brutal policy of the russian federation, which is contrary to the principles that form the foundation of the european union. the eu should take joint and decisive action to counter the practices of the russian federation. the federal republic of germany, which currently holds the presidency of the council of the european union, has a greater responsibility to uphold, above all, european solidarity, which is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. the german government should immediately abandon its own interests and start to be guided primarily by the interests of the eu as a community of member states. therefore, the german government's decision to stop further construction of the eu-damaging nord stream 2 project, which could make the eu dependent on russian gas.
mr president, i would like to thank president von der leyen for the state of the union. i think it’s an ambitious programme and it is absolutely clear that this commission wants to do things differently. there is a change of course; we hear that and we very much support that. we also think that it reflects the results of the elections last year, where european citizens were asking for that change, very well. so we thank you for that. but, of course, now it comes down to action. the words need to be translated into action, and there is sometimes still a big battle ahead of us, a big battle that we also need to have here in the european parliament. i want to direct these words to my colleagues, who quite often applaud the nice speeches of the commission and the statements that are being made but which are not being translated into law-making that really makes that change. we are still supporting subsidies for fossil fuels, we are still not strong enough on the rule of law, and we are still not fighting to make sure that refugees are being helped on this continent. these issues now need to be taken care of. after the words, the real work has to start, and we are willing to do that together to make sure that this europe becomes a green and a social europe.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. madam chairman, i regret to report that your speech was disappointing, full of half-truths and contradictions. you talk about the rule of law, and you are about to violate the treaty on the functioning of the european union by taking out a huge loan that our children will have to pay to finance crazy social experiments. you talk about free markets, yet you force packages like "mobility" that steal jobs from central and eastern europe. you talk about jobs, and you're about to go green with this madness and shut down hundreds of thousands of jobs in central and eastern europe. you talk about human rights, but you dare not mention the name of the neo-ottoman dictator erdogan and communist china. i wonder why you're afraid to ask communist china when it will take responsibility for the chinese virus that has destroyed the world economy. you talk about the enlargement of the european union, but you don't say that a macedonia should enter only when it has buried and forgotten forever its communist, anti-bulgarian, macedonian past. you don't want a flag with a pentagram and a sickle and a hammer in this room, do you? or you want to, i don't know. you also speak of illegal migration, calling them refugees. madam president, we are not talking about refugees, we are talking about hundreds of thousands, millions of illegal immigrants who will change the cultural identity of european nations, of sovereign european nations. you blame the far right, madam president, but if the far right rules, you rule. wake up, get out of this brussels bubble, get out of this closed sphere that you live in and look at life as it is. the future of the european union in the next few years depends on you, take your responsibility. thank you for your attention.
mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community. climate action is not only necessary for the planet, it is also an opportunity for the european economy, especially in global markets. the commission's president has rightly called for climate neutrality as soon as possible! we also support the 55% by 2030, but questions on the commission proposal are still allowed: why does the impact assessment say that it's possible today what was impossible before the coronavirus crisis? at the time, it was said that 40% was in line with paris and the limit for people and businesses was 55%! but we are only in the middle of the pandemic, brexit is coming, african swine fever, nobody, not even mr timmermans, can say seriously today what distortions this will lead to on the world markets. we therefore need a review of the impact assessment and the climate targets in two years' time at the latest, and almost more importantly: our smes need freedom for innovation, not technology bans or restructuring quotas, but market economy and emissions trading. we're talking today about climate change, supply chain law, new taxes and levies. i am sure that is all right, but i ask the commission: where is the voice of the smes in the commission? where's the promised contact for smis? where's the one-in-one-out rule? we cannot always just subsidize and regulate, we must also allow companies freedom of action, especially in the crisis and especially on the subject of climate protection.
mr president, madam president, today the vast majority of europeans are feeling uncertainty and anxiety about their future, their income, their jobs, their families. for your call for more optimism to be heard, action is needed. it is great that after the initial shock, including the very active role of the socialists, the european union has taken important decisions for the economic recovery from the pandemic. the most important, historically, of course, is the issuance of a common european debt to provide investment resources and to enable people and businesses to get a real hand out and support. but now the speed at which this is going to happen is vital. cutting budgets for the next few years is not the answer and the path to global leadership. most of the policies that are needed to rebuild the european union have been proposed by socialists for a long time and they require implementation to make europe more social, more just, more democratic. i want to draw your attention to the fact that for more than two months now thousands of bulgarian citizens have been protesting for these european values that you speak of, for accountable government, for transparency, for democracy. they expect their voice to be heard in the european union and to have a reaction. i urge you to act this way. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank madam president von der leyen for your very ambitious and pro-european speech this morning. i particularly welcomed your strong words on the importance of the rule of law. they are great words that meet with the approval of this house, as you know. unfortunately, they also meet with the approval of the government offices in, say, budapest, warsaw and other places, and i think that, unfortunately, corrupt, autocratic leaders like viktor orbán and others listen to your speech knowing that they have nothing to worry about, because for years now they have been attacking democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights with impunity, and they have become an example to others. others are following because the commission is afraid to speak up to the member states. it is a profoundly intergovernmental commission. in poland, can the judges and the lgbti people count on you to stand shoulder to shoulder with them as you stand shoulder to shoulder with the protesters in belarus? can the journalists in bulgaria count on your support? can the academics in hungary count on your support? i thank you for your words, madam president, but you will convince us only with actions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say, perhaps, in advance, and very frankly, that the level of denial and self-denial that is manifested in this house is very, very rare. it's almost as if a parallel universe has been created here, completely unrelated to the outside world. if you had been half-honest today, you would have had to file a bankruptcy and surrender your policy instead of blowing smoke up your ass. look at the central areas of this european union, where nothing is working anywhere, whether it's the corona issue, where you left italy and other countries completely in the dust at the beginning of the pandemic. look at moria: they haven't learned anything from the migration crisis since 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today you're making a great case for climate policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then on the other hand, you take people's money out of one pocket and put a fraction of that money in the other pocket. this is a hocus-pocus policy, but it is not an honest policy for the people. ladies and gentlemen, self-knowledge is the first step to improvement. if you realize that you're on the wrong track with your policies, if you make a turn, if you make the right policies, people will benefit from it, and your image will benefit from it.
madam president, it's time to help the people who have been the worst in this crisis and who will be the worst in the economic crisis. you've made important announcements today, like the minimum wage directive, or your climate ambition, with the 55% target in 2030, which we celebrate. but i also have to tell you that, for climate ambition to be real, we need the legislative regulations to clearly exclude that the money from the recovery fund is going to be used to invest in fossil fuels or polluting energy. i hope the european commission can help us in this. today europe is moving towards a more social and greener path. it's something to celebrate. i also want to say that this is a victory for all those who for years fought against the dogma of "austerity" and "forcible hanging", as some would say. but i have to tell you, madam president, that you have left for the end the great black hole of the european union at this moment, which is our immigration and asylum policy. our defence of human rights, our rule of law die today in the moria camp. and i know that not everything is your responsibility; we are perfectly aware of that. but i ask for more political leadership to deal with the situation, the humanitarian emergency, and for member states to finally accept to resettle these refugees. his political leadership is needed on this issue more than ever, and i think that is also his responsibility today, and i have to regret that that part has been left for the end. i think the commission must be much more forceful in the face of such a systematic violation of human rights as has occurred and is occurring at our borders.
mr president, i would like to say to president von der leyen that sometimes speeches are inspiring but not credible. other times they are credible but not inspiring. but this time it was both inspiring and credible. thank you very much. – senhora presidente, apesar disso eu queria levantar uma questão: vi pouca referência aos jovens e, senhora presidente, o emprego jovem está em crise. depois de uma crise em 2008 e 2009, agora uma crise em 2020. isto significa que há uma geração que vai estar 20 anos em crise, primeiro em 2008 e depois para recuperar até 2020 e, quando estava a recuperar, leva com outra crise. há uma geração de jovens perdidos e eles têm de ser um alvo preferencial das políticas europeias. em segundo lugar, queria que nos pudesse dizer que princípios vão inspirar a reforma de schengen, porque disse que há uma nova estratégia para o futuro de schengen e ela é bem precisa, mas que princípios é que a vão inspirar? é fundamental responder a isto, porque nós demonstramos, neste momento, por exemplo, que muitas dos guardas que estavam nas fronteiras externas estão nas fronteiras internas da união, desguarnecendo o espaço exterior e criando problemas no espaço interior e, finalmente, gostava também de ter tido uma palavra mais forte e mais clara para a conferência sobre o futuro da europa. dizer que ela tem que tratar da união para a saúde é, sem dúvida, importante, mas é preciso que a comissão seja uma driving force, senão não vamos ter conferência sobre o futuro da europa nos próximos meses a arrancar e penso que isso será uma perda muito grande para os europeus neste momento, que é um momento de viragem da europa, como a senhora presidente aqui demonstrou.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen, thank you for that passionate speech. the pandemic took us by surprise in some ways a few months ago, with a union with very limited health competences in relation to health emergencies and with health systems still full of imbalances. so it's great news that the global health summit in 2021 in italy, you announced. the right to health is a human right and we must strongly reaffirm it and make it a reality: today, it's not always like that. and on the issue of rights, just yesterday, in front of this parliament, you spoke out against the very serious violence against lgbtiq activists in poland. i welcome your clear words on the rule of law, but we want action to follow: the european union is also proposing new anti-discrimination laws and sanctions against the hungarian and polish governments. we need to move forward, president von der leyen, with institutional reforms; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we must support the new generations, who cannot bear the burden of this crisis alone: we need to do much, much more for them. together we can fight, together we can do good for our citizens. we 're ready . we want the commission on our side.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, we are both the first generation to suffer the effects of climate change and the last generation to be able to remedy it. there is no plan b for the planet. look at the disaster scenario all over the world, from the amazon to greenland, from australia to the mediterranean. now, nature doesn't take small steps, it takes big steps. today we must limit the damage caused by the inaction of successive governments. i would remind you that the first victims are the poor and the most vulnerable. so climate justice must be met with social justice. mrs von der leyen, i ask you one thing: do not wait for the green revolution, do it. the reduction in emissions by 2030 is minus 65 percent, in line with cop 21. the commission has already proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. start the cargo again, mrs von der leyen. i'll have to get back to you. the climate battle is the jobs battle. we are at a historic moment, a moment unprecedented in human history. the windows of opportunity are closing fast. so let's give ourselves the means to win the climate victory. let us all work together to make europe a climate leader. you said the countdown was on, but it's already here.
mr president, i would like president von der leyen to know that one sentence in her speech made me particularly happy. madam president, don’t get me wrong, i congratulate you on your entire speech but, in particular, your promise to adjust our competition framework, especially given the international situation which often lacks fairness and a level playing field. because let’s be honest, if we want european companies to produce our green and digital goods and services, they at least deserve a fair chance. for this a revision of our competition and public procurement rules is, according to the ppe group, long overdue. – een eerlijke kans voor bedrijven zorgt immers voor het behoud van banen, banen die zeker verloren zouden gaan bij een nexit, zoals de heer eppink wil. of wilde die nou geen nexit? legt u het mij nog eens uit. lost u in elk geval de schizofrenie in uw eigen partij en in uw eigen hoofd eerst op voordat u naar anderen wijst. en daar waar de heer eppink een ritueel dansje opvoert, ben ik, zoals mijn kiezers van mij verwachten, in de voorstellen gedoken en daar zie ik op bladzijde 244 van de effectbeoordeling bij de klimaatwet dat een gemiddeld gezin bij een reductie van 55% co2 in 2030 weliswaar 70 euro bespaart aan stookkosten, maar drie tot vier keer dat bedrag kwijt is aan duurzame apparaten en de isolatie van zijn woning. mevrouw de voorzitter, dit gaat over de mensen waarover u sprak, die aan het eind van de maand, wel “maand” maar geen geld over hebben en die zich zorgen maken over hun baan. je kunt niet groen doen als je rood staat. deze mensen heb je ook in landen die niet profiteren van de fff of het mechanisme voor een rechtvaardige transitie, dus op het moment dat wij voor deze mensen een antwoord hebben op de vraag hoe wij ze gaan helpen om die inspanning te leveren, dan sta ik aan uw zijde, maar op dat antwoord wacht ik nog wel.
mr president, madam president von der leyen, thank you for this great speech. europe needed it. the pandemic and the health crisis have disrupted our lives and the agenda of our european project, but they are also offering us a historic opportunity to restore hope and hope to our citizens. our political priorities at the beginning of this legislature have become political, social and economic emergencies. the union has survived every kind of crisis and has always been strengthened. this time we will achieve this with a courageous and forceful response, based on adequate budgetary means and through new own resources. in july the foundations and principles of economic recovery were laid and now it is up to the member states to introduce and implement reforms. as president pedro sánchez has said, these reforms must be developed in conjunction with regional and local authorities and are designed to strengthen public health, the digital and ecological transition, as well as social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. in this sense i would like to congratulate you, madam president, for having further strengthened parity in the college of commissioners with the appointment of our colleague mrs mcguinness. let us continue to make history and work together to improve the state of the union and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the european project.
mr president, i join my colleagues in thanking president von der leyen for her commitment. over the last year, our systems have been tested like little else before. we must now be able to respond faster to shared challenges and we must have common solutions and protocols that work first of all to preserve our single market under the schengen area, to ensure joint procurement becomes the norm, to safeguard our environment and fight climate change, and to protect and create jobs and opportunities for a new generation looking to us for direction, and to repair decimated sectors of our economy. but if 2020 is the year of corona, 2021 must be the year of europe, the year of optimism, and the year of real solidarity. this is particularly true in the area of migration. people are still dying on our shores. the same member states are still responsible for a disproportionate number of people. we need to give humans at least the same importance that we in this house give to our fish, our seas and our crops. the new migration pact must finally make us a union of shared responsibility. our approach must be permanent and not ad hoc. the bottom line must be every member state showing meaningful solidarity in a system that is fair with those in need of protection, firm with those who are not eligible and harsh with traffickers. the challenge for our generation is something that we can only tackle together. – marbuta ma’ dan kollu, hemm ukoll il-ħtieġa li nagħtu protezzjoni lill-media indipendenti. irridu li b’mod ikkoordinat niġġieldu wkoll is-slapp. dmirna hu li nsaħħu lill-ġurnalisti u l-media kontra dawk li jridu jdgħajfuhom. u rridu wkoll insaħħu l-ġlieda kontra l-korruzzjoni. u nieqaf hawnhekk: il-korruzzjoni hija l-kuntrarju ta’ dak kollu li l-unjoni ewropea tirrappreżenta. jekk mhux se niġġieldu l-korruzzjoni, jekk dawk li huma involuti fil-korruzzjoni mhumiex se jitressqu l-qorti, allura nkunu qed nissograw li titnaqqas il-fiduċja fil-proġett ewropew.
mr. president, madam president, i have to go. this is not the first time that the union has faced a major crisis, but it is the first time that it has been so widespread and had such profound effects. in the face of a pandemic, actions such as a joint covid response or a joint recovery plan are the right actions. but during the pandemic, we also saw more clearly than usual all the weaknesses of the union, which are mostly due to shallow integration and the advantage of the intergovernmental system over the community one, and yet the community system is better for europe. majority voting is more functional than unanimity in the european council, reminiscent of the polish liberum veto, which contributed greatly to the collapse of the polish state in the 18th century. what we need is a clear turn towards the citizens, not the governments. what is needed is deeper integration, an effective foreign policy, more powers for the eu institutions and improved decision-making. if these objectives require treaty changes, then they must be initiated. the debate on the future of europe will be a good opportunity to do so.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. chairman, please! you've spoken a lot about solidarity, about protecting the dignity of the workplace. it's very good that you're seeing these issues and talking about them. you also talked about equal opportunities for development, but at the same time you put forward the idea of increasing, accelerating the reduction of co2 by 2030, which excludes entire regions and many, many europeans from the chance to have just such a decent job. we have to fight climate change. it's necessary, you know. but you have to be rational about it. the second point i would like to make, and which i hope the commission will also take into account, or at least you will, and i ask the president to make sure that this is the case, is that fake news should not become the basis for fighting the rule of law in individual countries, as has happened, for example, in the case of poland, which is accused of violating the rights of people who promote lgbt ideology.
mr. chairman, please! cooperation, education and assistance to victims should be among the basic pillars of an effective fight against child sexual abuse and violence. the pandemic has made it clear that at least part of our children's lives have moved online. it's not just about distance learning, it's about maintaining relationships, not just with peers, but with people. therefore, we need to equip children and young people with the knowledge to identify threats so that they can protect themselves and their privacy online and offline. this requires educational programs, including age-appropriate sex education. these actions should be accompanied by a wide-ranging campaign targeting parents and those who work with children and young people on a daily basis. i believe that the fight against sexual violence and sexual exploitation of children must be based on a comprehensive strategy that will be effective both in the real world and online. such multi-faceted actions should be undertaken by all member states. the cost and consequences of unsuccessful sexual violence prevention are not only the lost childhood, but often the entire future adult life of our children. commissioner, thank you for your offer. as the european parliament's coordinator for children's rights, i declare my full support for your efforts.
mr. chairman, please! thank you very much, commissioner, for the material you have presented. we guarantee that we will support you in all of the solutions that you have presented and are planning. first of all, to question the union's capabilities and to improve the rules - strong, clear, decisive - we will support. and a few words about poland, which has been criticized so much by the states here. well, we're raising the penalties for pedophilia: 30 years in prison, life in prison if a child dies as a result of a pedophile's crime, no parole, a pedophile registry open to everyone so that everyone can know who lives next door, who is applying for a job, who may have just been exposed to a pedophile. and then there's the cyberbullying. ladies and gentlemen, this cyberbullying, the child is absolutely defenseless against. we as adults have to put aside our ambitions, maybe even our freedoms, because cybercriminals are very efficient and they're against children.
madam chairman, the fire burned the hotspot of moria, which was not a good place to live, it was overcrowded. it's our duty to respond. i am therefore glad that the commissioner has made it clear: 'no more moria hotspots!' i am pleased that the european commission, in cooperation with the greek government, will help to provide better living conditions, whether it be a hotspot or other accommodation that is more favourable to these people. it's not a long-term solution. the long-term solution, as we know, is to speed up asylum processes, to have an effective return policy, to protect the external borders, to fight smugglers and, above all, to help those who really need it. i hope that the czech government will finally decide to get involved, because there are citizens in the czech republic who are in solidarity. i appeal to my colleagues in the liberal and socialist parties to appeal to the liberal prime minister and the socialist minister of the interior, who say that there are no unaccompanied children and minors in greek camps. please, we want to help too.
member of the commission. – madam president, (inaudible) people in moria are like us. i think being a human being is having the ability to look another person in his or her eyes and understand some of the conditions that they are living under. this is really important, and ms kountoura brought one of those voices here, which is important. moria does not exist anymore, and there should be no more morias – no more camps like moria. of course, moria should not be restored. we need proper reception facilities, efficient and fair processes. we need clear rules, and people should not be left in limbo. during the debate – and i thank you very much for your engagement here – many of you asked for mandatory solidarity, and that of course is something that we need. ms metsola said it well that we can’t have ad hoc solidarity anymore, and mandatory solidarity will be part of the upcoming pact that i will present next week. i can also answer another question. there will be a clear child perspective in the pact that i will present next week. it’s obvious that we need that. i must say that, of course, not all migrants have the right to stay in the european union. those that are not eligible to stay have to be returned, but all migrants have dignity and rights. ms garcía pérez rightly said that, and they have to be treated properly. together we need to stand up for and protect the right to apply for asylum. to be honest, this right is under threat. asylum applicants have the right to a proper process, and we have to make sure that they have that. of course, we also have to make a distinction between those who have the right to stay, and those who have not and have to be returned, but in a proper and dignified way. ms in’t veld said something important here, early in the debate. she encouraged us not to be afraid. we should be proud europeans. we should act in line with our values. we should act as global leaders. migration is normal. of course, it has to be managed, and to be able to do so we need to agree on a common european migration policy. to be able to agree on a common migration policy we need to de-dramatise migration policy. the eu is not in a migration crisis, but some migrants are in crisis. one reason that we lack this common policy is this dramatisation of the issue. one reason for this failure, for many years, to agree on a proper compromise is that migration policy has been dramatised and seen as something very special. but we are policymakers, and you are legislators, and we are able to give support and respect the dignity and rights of people. to be able to do that, we need to be calm and pragmatic. i count on your support for the process of the proposal that i will put forward next week. thank you for the debate.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, what happened in moria camp is something i warned about at the beginning of the migrant crisis. it was clear that the migratory pressure and the overcrowded refugee centers near populated areas would provoke a local reaction. the colleagues on the left talk about a political solution to the crisis, talk about accepting and resettling migrants "in solidarity", but conveniently forget that they, together with mrs merkel, invited everyone from everywhere to come to europe to turn it into a huge camp for illegal immigrants. it is extremely hypocritical to speak of solidarity when certain countries have acted to destabilise the middle east and north africa. at that time, these countries made their decision selfishly, but when the time comes to take responsibility, they now ask us for solidarity. the solution is one: all those who flee war and have nowhere to go can seek refuge. all other immigrants must be repatriated immediately. we must pursue all organizations and individuals who are aiding the entry of illegal immigrants into europe. more support for frontex, more support for frontline states, more funding for protecting the eu's borders.
in writing. in recent years we have consistently called for a european management of migration flows, a fair sharing of responsibility between member states, denouncing the inadequacy and inefficiency of current european migration policies and the opportunism and blackmailing attitude of the turkish government, which have put border countries such as greece, which are more exposed to migration pressure, to the test. more than a tragedy announced, moria is the emblem of the denial of those values on which the eu is founded, both because of the degrading and inhumane conditions in which people have been kept in the centre, and because of the unsustainable migration and asylum system that has been implemented. in addition to immediate aid and post-traumatic assistance, particularly for the most vulnerable groups such as families with children, the elderly and pregnant women, the hope is that the new pact on migration and asylum will provide new tools and policies that will prevent the mistakes of the past from being repeated and new cases like the one in moria.
in writing. moria was a forgotten place in europe, and it took a great tragedy for us to bring up migration again. only this time, we can't just stop at exchanging opinions. i look forward to the commission's proposal for a pact on migration and asylum, with the hope of introducing a quota system for the number of migrants each member state will take in. during the debate, many voices were raised calling for solidarity and humanitarianism, and for the last 5 years we have left greece with the problem! i feel personally guilty because my country didn't take anyone back in 2015. without specific provisions imposing an obligation to accept migrants, we cannot be sure that this situation will not happen again. i agree with ursula von der leyen, who said that migration is part of our european history. and what's more, this phenomenon will be multiplied by climate change and other factors, and we still cannot accept the category of climate refugees. why do we create reactive policies instead of preventive ones? we already know that we can counter the barbaric business of smugglers transporting refugees in inhumane conditions across the mediterranean by creating humanitarian corridors. the moria tragedy would not have happened if the asylum policy had been effective, and today the procedure for examining an application takes several years. let us remember that places like moria cannot be created. i call on the member states to take in the refugees left on the streets of lesbos, it is our christian and civic duty.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for doing an excellent job in getting a very large majority behind this very important report. i am quite proud to be a member of a house which has always been the champion of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. four years ago, almost to the day, this house adopted the first proposal for an annual report covering all the member states, because we see in europe today – but we also see it across the atlantic – that the democratic rule of law is actually quite vulnerable to attacks from the inside. we are protecting ourselves from attacks from the outside, but there are attacks from the inside, and that is why we need to strengthen the toolkit to uphold the values laid down in the treaties. i would like to thank both commissioners for putting forward an excellent report last week, but we are going to take it one step further. i would like to conclude by reminding president von der leyen of her promise that she would treat legislative proposals from this house as if this house has the proper legislative right of initiative. so please, ms von der leyen, a follow-up to the report.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. there is no, and will not be, an out-of-court settlement, no legal basis for this report. crème de la crème is a reference in the preamble to the council of europe, which russia is a member of, the same council that has not condemned moscow for the attack on alexei navalny. let us not be fooled: this is a clever strategy, and behind the veil of the fight for the rule of law lies the next stage of federalisation of the european union and the fulfillment of the federalist dreams of the euro-left to govern the member states from the top floor of the european commission building. officials in brussels want to influence every reform in the member states, they want to introduce abortion, gender ideology and special rights for sexual minorities under the guise of democracy. the christian part of europe doesn't approve. we are debating a report which is yet another attack on the sovereignty of the member states. he says that unelected and anonymous officials will judge independent european countries. madam president and ladies, please send šimečko! i survived the commune, but i didn't let myself be manipulated like you are today, telling the untruth about what's happening in poland. just give me the signature of the judge's file, the judge's case, and then we'll talk. there are no such cases in polish courts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure provided for in article 7 of the treaty on european union has proved inadequate to prevent, correct and punish attacks and threats to the rule of law, democracy and respect for fundamental rights in the european union. this is the view of those who, by violating the common values of the european union, as set out in article 2 of the treaty, are contributing to undermining the rights of citizens and the mutual trust between the member states and to weakening the legal and political foundations of the european project. in the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union for 2013 and 2014, for which i was rapporteur, as well as on other occasions, such as the report in 't veld, this parliament called for the establishment of a monitoring mechanism and systematic country-by-country assessment, with recommendations and preventive and corrective measures, in order to ensure overall respect for the values on which the european union is founded. in order to ensure democratic control and to avoid any political and instrumental use of this mechanism, it must be based on objective criteria and conform to the principles of transparency, impartiality and equality between member states, especially in the case of sanctions procedures and procedures linked to budgetary conditionality. parameters such as the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression and media pluralism, human rights and active and passive democratic participation in electoral processes, as well as problematic aspects such as the fight against corruption and any form of discrimination, must remain cornerstones against any authoritarian, illiberal and anti-democratic tendency that threatens the future of europe and its citizens.
madam president, europe is the fruit of the values that were broken before, during and after the war, the values on which the european union was founded afterwards: dignity, freedom, democracy, human rights; in short, the rule of law and the separation of powers. the values are prior to the european union. for the democrats, membership of the european union is not an obligation; it is an obligation to respect the principles of the rule of law. that is why there must be a monitoring mechanism in the european union which is neutral and which warns us of the danger when the rule of law may be at risk somewhere, whether that place is romania, hungary, malta, spain, the german republic, france, anywhere. there must be a mechanism to ensure that all member states are measured against the same standard. the mechanism proposed today is not a means of judging governments, we are not and do not want to be courts of justice. but it serves to put an end to the practice that the rule of law is more or less at risk depending on the colour of the political party you belong to. when it comes to governments on the left, the rule of law seems to us on the right to be in danger; when it comes to governments on the left, the opposite is true. this is not a matter of right or left, this is about defending the rule of law, because the rule of law is so important, too important to play politics with it.
madam president, the history of the union is the history of integration governed by law and based on values, but the history of this mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights starts in the committee on freedoms of this european parliament. there was once the 'copenhagen dilemma', which is the distance between the copenhagen criteria - the values enshrined in article 2 - and our ability to respond to those who aggressively offend them from within: those so-called 'liberals'. by the way, commissioner jourová, we are all in solidarity with the unjust attacks aimed at intimidating you. the member states referred to in article 7 complain that everything is biased, that there is a double standard. the mechanism is intended to examine all the member states of the european union on a regular basis, in a general way and with objective parameters. commissioner reynders presented it to the committee on civil liberties on 30 september and we welcomed it: welcome. the methodology and sources can be improved and perfected. i would add that this story will not end well until we establish conditionality in access to european funds and the european budget by means of a regulation, strictly linked to the respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. otherwise, this story won't have a happy ending.
madam president, we are here in the midst of a storm and we know that unless we strengthen european democratic confidence we cannot meet every social and economic challenge. we have never before had a real mechanism for monitoring the quality of the democracies of the member states, and the first thing we have to remember is what the rule of law is all about. well, it is about preventing the arbitrariness of power over citizens, it is about making rights and obligations objective, and it is about dignity. this is what democracy is about, and every now and then, every once in a while, we have to remember this, because the virus of populism, the virus of authoritarianism, of the caciques, is there, always latent. this is a time when we have to do this work and the commission, even if parliament wants more, will have a central role, at least for the time being, in the implementation of this mechanism. it is very important - as mr gonzález pons has already said - that it should become a logbook, that it should not be politicized, that it should be objective, because otherwise we will not be able to encourage some to improve their standards and others to avoid crossing certain red lines. and we have to do this without any blind spots, whether it's state or sub-state entities that put democracy at risk, because populists promise bread, but it's bread for today and hunger for tomorrow.
madam president, the european union already exercises economic tutelage over its member states, but that is no longer enough for it, it now also wants to exercise ideological tutelage over them. the šimečka report is the instrument of this new federalist offensive. personally, i am strongly opposed to it because i don't want my country to be treated like a child. i don't want it to be scored by pseudo-experts who will behave like political commissars. i do not want them to force it to respect all the whims of the union, such as gender ideology, the apology of migrants, the omnipotence of judges or the hatred of the religious and cultural roots of our national identity. and i don't want them to put the lead hat of political correctness on it, under the guise of fighting fake news or disinformation. the europe i dream of is the opposite of your model of father fouettard. i want a europe that is free, proud of its many national identities and whose ambition is to promote its civilisation rather than to self-flagellate. i want a radiant europe that would organise the resistance of its member states to the multiple external dangers and the flood of migration, instead of always giving the same soft response that can be summed up in one word: submission.
madam president! last week, a funeral was held in poland for a child, a 12-year-old girl who committed suicide out of sexual orientation. for months, polish politicians have been attacking lgbt+ people, violating their dignity, inciting hatred. the candidate for the new minister of education is a person who promotes homophobia. this is all happening in the union in 2020. at the last session of the european parliament, the president of the european commission spoke beautifully about equality, dignity and respect, but these are just words. the polish government continues to receive a large flow of eu funds. and for 12 years the european commission has been unable to get a horizontal directive to be adopted. we need a rule of law mechanism, of course, and one that takes the full value of article 2 into account, but if the commission does not continue to use its powers, then it will continue to be words, words, words.
madam president! you attack poland, and in a particularly brazen way, by historically reminding us of some totalitarianisms. meanwhile, i want to tell you why you have this economic advantage today, which allows you to be so arrogant towards poland. because, ladies and gentlemen, historically, as you say, when poland was attacked by the germans and the soviets, your countries stood by and watched poland defend its values with honor, and then, because poland defended those values, you handed poland over to the soviets and watched how it could not develop for decades. and that's why you have this economic advantage today and brazenly... i'll tell you this: give us back the years that poland lost, then none of you will allow yourself this arrogance. i'll tell you more: you're giving us lgbt-free zones today. did you know that poland was the only country where homosexuality wasn't criminalized? you could learn a lot from the poles, especially about values, tolerance. today, poland is bothering you because it's doing much better than you. look especially at spain, where almost one out of every two young people is unemployed. you could learn from poland today, but you believe it, so you attack poland.
in writing. what's the point of this debate? once again, the european parliament attacks poland, relying on fake news and heavily distorted information provided by the polish opposition, whose goal is not the good of the country, but the fight against the democratically elected polish government. are there not serious problems that we need to consider today? what about the coronavirus pandemic, where the specter of a second wave is staring us in the face? what about the faltering economy? what about the rising unemployment? i won't mention the migration crisis because it's another issue that europe is not dealing with. don't we have bigger problems to deal with? or is this debate a kind of escape and a substitute subject for problems for which we cannot find a solution? you've targeted poland and hungary. you don't seem to notice that the judicial systems or the media in poland work like in western european countries. we do not and will not agree to decisions affecting poland being taken by officials who by default, not by democratic choice will decide on matters that are the sole domain of the member states, using the rule of law argument used, as history has already shown, selectively. we don't have a license for that.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioners and ministers! the union's multiannual financial framework, the recovery instrument and its own resources are the main instruments in the community's fight for a better future. we're aware of that. in july of this year, representatives of 27 countries came together, and they built international solidarity against the pandemic -- much-needed solidarity. unfortunately, this positive image of the european union is clouded by an unfair discussion of the alleged lack of rule of law in poland and hungary. moreover, instead of european solidarity, the european commission wants to divide countries into better and worse by proposing extra-treaty rules on the linking of funds to the rule of law. the european commission does this without any legal basis. unfortunately, the european commission also infringes the right of a member state to protect its good name. the european commission is duplicating article 7 of the treaty on european union, while also marginalizing the european council. we cannot talk about the rule of law in the language of mrs barley, we cannot say that certain countries such as poland or hungary must be starved to death. i invite mrs. barley to poland. we'll show her the places where people starved, where totalitarian systems, communist and hitlerite, caused people, children, to starve and be burned alive. there's no such thing in poland or hungary. let's not use that language, it's a very bad language, it interferes with communication. and let's get back to work on real principles and own resources and the eu budget, because we need it to fight the pandemic and the european crisis.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can only agree with what my predecessor said, namely that there is no need for such a discussion. i was all the more perplexed to hear mr hakkarainen say that it is not the role of the european institutions to discuss the rule of law. where else should we talk about this? i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to ask you to take a moment to explain the reasons for this. i am grateful for this debate and for the strong commitment of this house, which does not surprise me, and also for the strong commitment of the council, mr roth, minister of state. the fact that the commission has, so to speak, divided its speech here today between the commissioner responsible for justice and the commissioner responsible for budgetary affairs also shows that this is to be seen as a package, that this is to be seen together, that the question of the rule of law, of conditionality in connection with the european budget is an integral part of it. i hope that we will be here in the next few days, not in the next few weeks - and i say this as the budget commissioner - and that we will find an agreement despite all the difficulties - an agreement which respects the principles of the rule of law which are necessary for the proper implementation of the budget, but which also understands that we are in a difficult situation. across europe, infection rates are rising, and the economy continues to suffer. we're going to have a double-digit economic collapse in virtually every country. we are called upon to provide the mechanisms we have proposed mfr, next generation eu, sure already to help our citizens quickly and as simply as possible, while respecting the necessary rule of law principles.
the president of the council. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we are not debating governments today, we are debating a new instrument. i want to reassure you that we are in agreement here in principle, that after many years of no agreement on this instrument, this instrument has not been on the table as a concrete proposal - we have been talking about it since 2018 - we now have a unique opportunity to contribute with a new instrument to a new certainty about who we really are in the european union and where we want to go together. i take it as a sign of the highest commitment that here in the european parliament there is a lot of passionate debate and also clear criticism. but i ask you to discuss the content. we are not accomplices of lawbreakers, nor do i bow to any dictator. i think we should try to - despite the understandable emotionality - to check again and again where we can move towards each other and how we can move towards each other. i also ask that the different roles of these bodies be respected. a member of parliament just stood up and said: if he is right, the next generation of the eu has time. i have always understood this differently, mr president. i've always understood that we all made a collective promise that the resources needed to fight the pandemic would be delivered as quickly as possible to where they were needed most. yes, and there is a difficulty we have to overcome in the council. you can count on us to tackle this difficulty. but with respect, on equal footing. we need unanimity for the regulation on the multiannual financial framework and we need unanimity for the own resources decision. we need ratification in all 27 member states for the own resources decision. the honourable president of this parliament has also asked, in a critical way, whether we can still achieve this in the few weeks that remain. the sure you will remember national ratification process also took a long time. i would like to reassure you that this mandate, despite the difficulties of launching it without the agreement of all the national delegations, is a genuine offer for genuine negotiations with the european parliament. we want to see a rapid conclusion to the overall package. of course, the principles of the rule of law are at stake. the commission's role in all the proposals and considerations before me is central, and i take very seriously what the commission has said so far on the core elements of the rule of law. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it is about the independence of the judiciary, it is about checks and balances, it is about an effective fight against corruption, and it is about media pluralism and media freedom. and we take that seriously. there is also a specific reference to article 2 in this draft because we are aware of the difficulties and because we know that the european court of justice has repeatedly raised serious doubts in some member states. but it's a tool for all of us. so i ask you all not to talk about our intentions. let us now move as quickly as possible to the final stage of the outstanding negotiations and make it clear that the council, the commission and the european parliament are on the same page on the rule of law and, if possible, in the same direction. the german presidency is very much in favour of this, with your support.
the debate is closed. before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i should like to inform the house that due to travel restrictions there is a limited availability of interpreters from malta and ireland and that therefore from 8 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. only passive interpretation from maltese and gaelic into other languages is guaranteed, that is to say, everyone can speak in his own language, but interpretation will be provided only into the other languages during this period. we hope that the travel restrictions will soon be reduced and can be lifted. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. article 2 of the treaty sets out the eu's core values and the role of the european commission, which is to ensure that the treaties are complied with. a strong commission is essential for the proper functioning of the union, which cannot be constrained by council blocks. the debate on the rule of law is perhaps of greater importance at the moment because it relates to the issues that will surely be the most important for the coming years: the financial framework, own resources and the recovery plan. we do not have to choose between democratic quality and economic recovery, but both are possible and that is why we ask for responsibility, not to fuel divisions and not to take democracy for granted in the face of the rise of populisms. we consider it important that this message reaches the citizens and that is why we insist that the final recipients of the funds are not harmed. our group has been calling for a rule of law mechanism linked to the budget for a long time and we finally have a proposal to start negotiating with. it is now important to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the programmes can start without delay.
in writing. – given the current circumstances, where some of our member states do not respect fundamental rights and where right-wing, fascist and anti-gender movements are at the forefront, the german presidency’s approved proposal on a mechanism on the rule of law is just not enough. this proposal, which limits itself to purely protection of the eu budget, will not help us achieve our goals on safeguarding european values and fundamental rights. there is a fundamental misunderstanding, because the ‘financial interest of the union’ is not a goal in itself! we should not adopt a regulation to ‘protect the union budget in the case of breaches of the principles of rule of law in the member states’, but the other way around. this proposal will not bring us any further than the article 7 procedures. there, the ep should refuse any deal on the mff as long as there is no clear commitment on a serious mechanism on the rule of law with a reverse qualified majority and without the need for a direct impact on the eu budget in case of a violation of the rule of law.
in writing. we are facing a curious situation today, with a large part of the ep trying at all costs to exploit the notion of the rule of law. unfortunately, the left-wing factions in this house are at the forefront of this, and they will stop at nothing to achieve their goal of affirming left-wing pseudo-values while destroying all signs of christian or conservative thinking and action. poland is being put under the thumb of international institutions on the basis of obvious fake news. the debate is about the next instruments to put pressure on eu member states, instruments that are completely separate from the eu treaties. german politician and vice-president of the european parliament katarina barley speaks of the financial starvation of poland and hungary. he's talking about a country where the germans murdered monstrously for the purpose of death by starvation. he says this in the context of today's debate, in the discussion on the conditionality mechanism in the eu budget and the suspension of funds for breaches of the rule of law. how far can you go in ideological blindness? can anyone point to the eu legislation or treaty provisions that define the so-called rule of law violations? there is no question of agreeing to a regulation which is based on unclearly defined deadlines and conditions. it would open the way to acting against the financial interests of selected eu member states at any time, and we must not agree to that.
in writing. the european union is a community based on the equality of all states. poland does not agree to be a second-tier country where other states interfere in its internal politics, which is outside the eu's competence. the current eu pressure is a political act and has nothing to do with the rule of law. we have our rights, poland has the right to reform, it was the poles in democratic elections who decided that changes were needed. when we reform, we follow the rules in force in the eu and the member states. the mechanism of budgetary linkage to rule of law violations (violation of values referred to in article 2 teu) should be permanently removed from the draft regulation. it duplicates the mechanism under article 7 teu by marginalizing the role of the eu council and the european council in the process of assessing a breach of the rule of law by a member state, and deprives the article 7 procedure of its multi-stage character, thus infringing the law of the member state addressed. the introduction of a budgetary and rule of law mechanism separate from article 7 teu is not based on the treaty. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the regulation. poland also opposed the mandate of the presidency to open negotiations with the ep on the basis of this draft.
in writing. i am not at all pleased that we are in a situation where we are forced to discuss the linking of payments of eu funds to the rule of law by the member states. compliance with that principle should be self-evident and natural for the member states. the european union is not just a common market, it is also a set of common principles and values. even if we were still at the earliest stage of integration, at the stage of the common market, respect for the rule of law, which builds legal certainty and trust, would be essential. let us also emphasize that this principle is not a matter of theory, it is ultimately a denial of the right of individuals to liberty, security, access to an independent court. but since the anti-democratic actions of some governments have forced us to discuss and work on the appropriate legislation in this area, i would like to emphasize strongly that there is no place in the european union for breaking the rule of law and we must do everything to prevent it from happening. and to do so in a way that the consequences are not borne by eu citizens, but by undemocratic governments. i therefore consider that the disbursement of the funds should be resumed immediately once the breach of the rule of law has ceased. i also support a mechanism that ensures that the final beneficiaries, such as ngos and local governments, are paid, without central governments breaking the rule of law.
in writing. we welcomed the progress of the legislative work in the council on the draft regulation establishing a budgetary conditionality mechanism. however, the compromise reached by the member states diverges significantly from the position adopted by the european parliament at first reading. first, the council narrows down the application of the regulation by combining respect for the rule of law with the protection of the eu's financial interests. this may seem somewhat justified in the context of opinions suggesting an unacceptable duplication of the rule of law mechanism in the treaty in the ep and council regulation. it should be noted, however, that article 7 teu has proved to be wholly ineffective. this is a fundamental problem which threatens to destroy the union in the long run. i therefore believe that as the european parliament we should strive to protect more effectively all the values enshrined in article 2 teu. our voice cannot be ignored by the member states in the council, even though in today's world the establishment of a general budgetary conditionality mechanism is a real challenge both politically and legally. we cannot simply accept the compromise of the german presidency and we must look for solutions that go further. i hope that parliament will continue to take a principled position on the regulation in question and seek to modify it in line with the position adopted at first reading. the reintroduction of the reverse qualified majority voting method in the council for the implementation of sanctions and the effective protection of final beneficiaries of union funds are critical issues.
in writing. the principle of equality between women and men is today the basic standard of human and civil rights. in poland, this principle is regulated by law and constitutionally protected. it is also clear that increasing the representation of women in the highest decision-making bodies of listed companies is an important objective. however, an analysis of the consequences of the implementation of the provisions of the proposed directive calls into question their usefulness in achieving that equality, and the imposition of rigid parity standards on commercial law practitioners may have the opposite effect. it may lead to a situation where the level of motivation among women entrepreneurs is reduced due to the expectation of preferential treatment. the so-called 'golden skirt' phenomenon may also emerge, whereby a small number of women participate simultaneously in the supervisory boards and management boards of many companies, with the result that the participation of women in the highest decision-making bodies of companies does not increase. the aim of the directive is not to improve the status and position of women, but to express an ideological feminist view. equally important, the project is contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union. finally, it is worth noting that the imposition of female representation by the principle of parity in advance diminishes the value of candidates and is contrary to the elementary sense of justice and dignity.
in writing. it is our duty to ensure equal representation of women on boards! employing women and men with the required competence in senior decision-making positions is better strategy and better financial performance. it's a different approach to problem solving or a different organizational culture. women are very well educated, and organization and a sense of duty are their natural assets. who better than a mother, wife, and daughter who are responsible for raising children, maintaining a home, and caring for aging parents can balance family life with a secular job? in the process of equalising the employment of women and men on boards, more than the word parity is important. let's invest in supporting women who want to work and achieve their goals, including raising children. the 2012 proposal for a directive imposes tough targets and sanctions on member states by imposing regulations on commercial law entities that go beyond the minimum necessary to achieve the objective. women must be treated equally during the recruitment process. however, many countries are making progress without implementing tough regulations. let us support women, promote their skills and elect the best candidates to the boards of directors in accordance with the principle of gender equality and respect for the law in the member states.
president, the coronavirus epidemic is hitting the most vulnerable in the labor market the hardest. platform workers like the uber drivers lost their jobs and their income instantly, and the food delivery people are still driving around without insurance. everyone has become an expert in teleworking, but it is still useful. our companies and our society are not ready for that digital society. what do you do when the work emails and the apps keep coming in early in the morning, late at night, and all weekend long? the european platform summit has been postponed because of the coronavirus crisis, and that's a shame. but what is really incomprehensible is that there is no plan at european level yet for fair work in this digital economy. the digital services act is not enough for me. europe needs to be prepared for that digital economy, and that means platform workers deserving of fair contracts, people getting support for working from home, and the right to be offline everywhere in europe coming to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! we welcomed the fact that the european council reached a final agreement on sanctions for those responsible for the use of violence and repression against protesters in belarus. however, the process of reaching this agreement and the endless negotiations have shown how inefficient the system of governance of the union is, since it requires unanimity of all council members even on the most obvious issues. in line with the agenda presented by the leaders, the european council plans to take a number of strategic actions in the field of foreign policy by the middle of next year. these include our relations with china, africa, russia and, finally, the united kingdom. in this context, i am convinced that the council should make effective efforts as soon as possible to move away from the non-functional unanimity rule in favour of the community method in the field of foreign and security policy. to do this, it is not necessary to amend the treaties the political will of the member states is sufficient. we cannot have an ineffective and watered-down foreign policy just because key decisions can be blocked by the particular interests of one of the states. the union cannot be a colossus on clay feet. we have legitimate aspirations, and as we have seen in the case of belarus, for example, our inability to act effectively has been exposed by one minor satrap.
mr. chairman, please! for 26 years, belarus has been ruled by the last dictator in europe. for three months now, belarusian society has been taking to the streets to demand what we in the european union take for granted: freedom, democracy and the rule of law. people are being killed in belarus on lukashenko's orders, people are being forced to flee belarus, women are being raped in prisons in belarus on lukashenko's orders. what is the european union doing about this? he's sanctioning 40 people. let me remind you: in 2016, in the case of belarus, we imposed sanctions on 170 people in a much less serious situation. today, from left to right in this room, there are voices that say that the sanctions are not directed against president lukashenko. if the european union wants to maintain its credibility, these sanctions must be urgently imposed on lukashenko himself.
mr. chairman, please! the report on the future forest strategy takes a holistic approach and not only highlights the ecological role of forests, but also draws attention to their social aspects. europe needs an ambitious, strong forest strategy to ensure a coordinated approach to forests, the forestry sector and the many services they provide. the report should be supported because, firstly, it is based on the principles of sustainable development, which promotes the ecological, economic and social functions of forests. secondly, it emphasises the human aspects, in particular those of people who work in, or depend directly or indirectly on, forests and the forestry sector. thirdly, it calls for an ambitious, independent, self-contained eu forest strategy for the period after 2020 and stresses the need for better coordination, integration with other eu legislation that relates to forests, forestry and agriculture.
the new forest strategy should provide the key legal framework for coherent, coordinated action at european union level. it should be a continuation of the previous one with a clear emphasis on preserving the principle of sovereignty and competence of the member states in forest management. the role of the standing committee on forestry is very important for poland, not only as a discussion network for the exchange of knowledge and expertise, but also as a forum for the development of forest initiatives in the eu institutions. ensuring the sustainability of forests by improving their resilience, in particular to fire, drought, pests, diseases and other threats that may increase as a result of climate change, should be one of the main objectives of the new strategy. failure to protect forests from logging will result in the loss of specific forest ecosystem characteristics for many years. this can be the basis for the depletion and even loss of biodiversity typical of individual forest habitats. we need to pay particular attention to the need to support research and innovation and the deployment of technology in forests and the forest sector, as well as to continuously improve skills through academic and vocational education to protect the natural lungs of the earth even more effectively.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. and the climate change is very similar to the coronavirus crisis, which unfortunately still affects us all. by the time you realize how bad it is, it's too late. that's why we have to take precautions. we must act in time, and we must indeed listen to the science. it's very clear that we all need to do more globally to prevent dangerous climate change, to prevent our children and grandchildren from living in a world where they can't control climate change. so i would like to thank all those who have helped, especially the epp group, mairead mcguinness, who we hope will be elected to another post tomorrow. but i am grateful above all to the european commission, to mr timmermans and to ursula von der leyen and to all the others. the european commission has put forward a really ambitious target for 2030 and also for 2050. i will not allow this to be talked about lightly. no other major economy in the world is even remotely in the direction the european commission wants to go, and the commissioner: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i have just finished speaking, so please go over it again at the end. what the commission is proposing is compatible with paris. the only argument i hear from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection in favour of the 60% against the commission proposal is that it is tactical. the council may be pushing us down, and that's why we need to vote for something higher now. but firstly, the council already has a qualified majority of 55%, and secondly, you cannot say to people who are worried about their jobs in the steel industry, in the automobile supplier industry, etc.: 'we did not mean that, that was just tactics'. let us vote for what we think, and that is the commission's proposal: 55%!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is safe to say that we will all remember this moment when we are older. we voted the first european climate law. we have set the goal of climate neutrality by 2050. and we'll be the first continent in the world to do that. three years ago, three countries started this battle: france, sweden and luxembourg. it was a very small minority and in three years, they managed to convince everyone and here no one even mentioned the fact that we are going to be the first in the world to do it, it has become such a matter of course that the debate is now behind us. so we have to measure the path we have travelled and rejoice in it. the second point is that obviously the 2030 target must be consistent with this climate neutrality objective and here we, the environment committee in the renew group, think we can get a majority of around 60%. and there are people on the european right who are more progressive than others, and if we really want to have at least 55% as the final destination of the negotiation with the member states, we parliamentarians must make policy, make tactics and send the most ambitious message possible with a majority. the most ambitious message possible is 60%, which is why we support it and i hope that colleagues from the ppp, the right and the centre of the european right will join this majority to win it tomorrow in the plenary of parliament. a final word: adaptation to climate change is fundamental, all european territories are concerned, farmers who are experiencing droughts, people who are experiencing floods, rising sea levels on the coasts, this european law is still too weak on adaptation, that is why we have tabled an amendment to stop spending european money if we do not test the ability of the major projects we finance to adapt, to be resilient to climate change. i hope that the whole of this house will be able to support this amendment tomorrow, which is absolutely fundamental, both for the climate, for the territories and for the proper use of public money.
on behalf of the ecr group. yes, this is a historic moment, a moment of our parliamentary responsibility. yes, we promised to protect the environment, water, air, but we promised responsibility, factual and consequential. yes, we think about what's in 10 years, in 20, in 30, but we have to think about what's in a year, in two years and in three years. when you read the impact assessment carefully - and it doesn't answer many questions - you'll find that it's a lighthearted talk about how unemployment will rise, how energy poverty will rise, how the price of water will rise, how the price of garbage will rise, and finally how the price of energy will rise. this is not what we promised our citizens. we have promised our citizens european solidarity and respect for the treaties. what are we doing? our prime ministers, our presidents, have agreed in the european council that we will talk about zero emissions at the european union level. climate law says the exact opposite. we promised to be reasonable. a couple of months ago, we heard from the epa that we couldn't meet the ambitious 40% target, and now we're talking about 55%, knowing what's going to happen to the price of the permits, because it's happened. during the pandemic, the price of a ton of carbon dioxide almost doubled. we promised to cut red tape. what's the matter? we have a new tool, a new institution, and countless others. nobody knows what they're gonna do. we are hiding behind the slogan that it will be the scientists who will - again, this is against the treaties - support the commission in taking away rights from the member states. let's tell the farmers. i don't know if franz timmermans - i asked him the last time we were worried about his health - has already spoken to his dutch farmers. talk to them, work out the greenhouse budget with them. not only do we think that they are the only ones responsible for implementing the biodiversity strategy, the farm-to-table strategy, but we also make them count, we make them hire accountants and increase red tape. yes, we are responsible and we will confirm this with our vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a 65% reduction in emissions by 2030 would save the european union more than eur 10 trillion in avoided environmental damage. how many floods and landslides, like those that have occurred in recent days in piedmont, liguria, lombardy and valle d'aosta, do we have to witness to understand that the climate crisis is ongoing and that we must act now? the european climate law we are about to vote on must be ambitious and courageous. and to all those who, even in this house, continue to deny the evidence and try to undermine this law or delay commitments with various ploys, completely ignoring science and the public, i say you are out of the story. investing in a zero-carbon economy today can create millions of jobs: 18 million worldwide according to the ilo. so there are no more excuses! but be careful: the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. a hole in the mountain to run a train through which the construction works would release over ten million tons of co2 into the atmosphere, and the first kilogram of co2 saved will not be until 2040, when it will be far too late.
madam president! today we must take responsibility for our common future, the future of our children, and we must take this decision at a particularly difficult time for europe, with an unprecedented economic crisis and a pandemic that threatens our health and our lives. we are being asked to act by young people - the people who will own the future - and we owe it to them to do so. we are supporting today the world's most ambitious plan to combat climate change by significantly reducing emissions here and now. we do this by taking care of the economy, taking care of jobs. we are witnessing, alongside the fight against climate change, a global, not just a european, industrial revolution. to keep up with the changes, we need to build the jobs of the future today, but at the same time we need to ensure that no one is left behind, without support. it is therefore necessary to create effective mechanisms for a just transition. we are voting today on a climate law that speaks to the goals we want to achieve, but we cannot forget that it is only part of the european green deal, which must be the driving force of our economy.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. climate action should be one of the eu's priorities. there it is. and that's not up for discussion, and it shouldn't be up for discussion. however, we should remember that industry is still the main driver of europe's development and prosperity. the european union has therefore rightly set itself the objective of increasing industrial production to at least 20% by the year 2000 (currently 15-16%). the minimum conditions for achieving this objective are to guarantee continuity, consistency of union law and predictability for industry. in 2014, the european union set a target of reducing emissions by at least 40% by 2030. it only agreed on the rules for achieving this goal a few years ago, and we have expertise on the european commission's website that says it will be difficult to reach 40%. so the question is, why don't we first analyze why there's a problem in achieving the goal, and then we make new assumptions? how is industry going to grow in this case when there's no coherence between what we've done so far and what we're imposing?
madam president! we need to speak like serious politicians, not like youth climate strikers. let's talk about the costs of climate policy and the victims of climate policy. i'll tell you what the cost of the green deal is from the perspective of the people of my region. the cost of creating new jobs for the employees of the polish mining group alone is pln 200 billion. and we're talking about one company, one of the biggest in europe. 140 billion will not be enough to modernize silesia. we can't get that money from brussels. several countries profit from forced technologies, and regions like silesia are set to plunge into poverty and social crisis. there are countries that will do the climate change at no cost, and there are countries that will do it with minimal effort. poland, whose industry is most dependent on coal, will be devastated economically and socially, and the european commission and some meps, instead of understanding us, threaten sanctions and cutting funds. this is your justice!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president timmermans, today we are taking a historic step together, based on strong scientific evidence, which is leading humanity towards restoring the balance of the planet, while at the same time reshaping our economy and changing the habits of all of us. the citizens of karditsa, fethiye, macedonia, crete, know better than anyone how great is the need to tackle climate change, to boost sustainable development, sustainable food, sustainable transport, change in buildings, new breakthrough treatments in medicines. it is also time to take this step realistically, so that the 2030 target is based on an updated impact assessment and takes into account the impact of the pandemic and the coronavirus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this step must include green digital and resilient investments and jobs to tackle the recession. the citizens of western macedonia and megalopolis, commissioner, look to us here in the european union, and they expect us to guide them and finance the projects so that no one is left behind. this step must be implemented immediately by all member states with strong supervision. it is our duty today to give the european citizens and the world community a modern, realistic, development-oriented climate legislative framework.
madam president! i think almost everyone in this room agrees that we want to provide ourselves and our children and grandchildren with clean air, clean water and a safe environment. listening to our discussion today, i have the impression that we are all a little bit right. there is no doubt that we need ambitious climate policy goals and a strong commitment from all europeans to achieve them. remember, though, that ambitious does not mean bold or unreasonable. we cannot allow hundreds of thousands of europeans to lose their jobs in the process of achieving these objectives. nor can we pass the costs of this transformation on to ordinary citizens, who will have to pay for it, even if it means higher electricity bills. yes, let us set our standards high, but let us also give european companies and citizens the tools and means to jump over those standards. the transformation must be carried out with care.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i see that many people who’ve made comments have left, but still, i’ll try and answer more in general to some of the comments that were made. first of all, to those people mostly sitting here, who are always referring to the citizens to not be ambitious. well, if there’s one thing that’s consistent over the last year – even in the middle of the pandemic – a large majority of our citizens want us to act to face the climate crisis. it is the citizens who are asking this of us: even in the middle of the pandemic, when they’re very much worried about their health, when they are very much worried about their jobs, they still see the climate crisis as something they want us to act upon. secondly, in the same context, don’t come at me with ‘sovereignty – we need to do it at the national level’. our citizens understand this is a problem we can only tackle on a global level, and that europe needs to take the leadership as europe. individual member states can no longer do that. another remark in reaction to some of the criticisms: the costs. it’s expensive. well, let me be very clear. if you look at our impact assessment, and to put it in layman’s terms: this is going to be bloody hard to do! it is hard to do, and we will ask sacrifice of everyone – industry, our citizens, the transport system, etc. it’s a tough job, but it can be done, and the sooner we start, the lower the cost. the sooner we start, the earlier the benefits. that’s why we had our target of -55% for 2030. so we shouldn’t hide the fact that this is going to be, as i said, bloody difficult to do – but just imagine for one second the cost of non-action. how are you going to go to a small town, such as limone piemonte, where they’ve just suffered the most horrible weather conditions and people have died and the village is a shambles, and tell them: no, it’s too costly, we won’t do this. what’s the cost of that? what’s the cost of another monthly gota fria in valencia if we don’t do something about that? what’s the cost if people are saying: here, we should keep all these coal mines open, but there’s no market for the coal – what’s the cost of keeping people in jobs that have no future? the cost is huge. we need to help people find new jobs, retrain them – but show solidarity. that’s why just transition is essential. without just transition there will just be no transition and we will never get to our -55% goal. now of course, on the other side of the chamber, you want a higher target. i maintain that -55 is difficult but feasible. i also maintain it is in line with our international obligations. i say this with force, because i do not like the argument that we should be doing more because other industrialised nations are doing less. we should be leading but also taking others along the way. i am quite sure that xi jinping saying that china will be carbon-neutral by 2060 is a consequence of what we’re doing, and we need to convince others. the fact that south africa has now said: ‘we want to be climate-neutral by 2050’ – that’s huge for a country like south africa. let’s use that and create more international cooperation, and then -55, i think, is very important. a final point on using carbon sink. look at the state of our forests. look at what’s happening with biodiversity in europe. if we continue like this, there will be no pollinators anymore. how are you going to explain that to the farmers when they say: ‘let’s keep the present agricultural policy’? there will be no agriculture if there are no pollinators. there will be no agriculture if there’s no water for the land. there will be no agriculture if a storm sweeps away the topsoil every time. and we need to look after our forests. carbon sink is diminishing in europe. we need to increase it. we need to look after the situation of our grasslands, our peatlands, our forests, and in that context, i believe it is wise to include carbon sink in our targets and to make sure we increase the health of our natural environment.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank executive vice—president timmermans for introducing this new chapter for the eu to become climate neutral. it is indeed a big change, it’s a historic moment and it is a new chapter that we are going to write together in the upcoming decades. i would like to paint a picture, inspired by a young climate activist who doesn’t need to be presented. i would like to paint a picture of a house that’s on fire. this planet is on fire and the young people, the young movement, noticed it and heard the alarm faster than many others. the scientists saw that the installation and the heating system is not functioning anymore. the conservatives say: ‘oh, but please keep it as it is because it was my daddy who actually installed it’. but that’s not a serious way to act when we have a problem with a system that is actually catching fire and already needs to have water put on it to make sure that we don’t have the catastrophe in some of the rooms that we already actually have. in the debate today we got many important messages from the members. i would say that we have a big majority who see the necessity of doing more and who see that it’s not a sustainable way to keep giving subsidies to a system that is old. therefore, we need to get rid of those fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 at the latest. many also pointed out the necessity of doing it together. yes, we need to do it together. it’s not ok if some member states are not there helping out. then the reparation will take further time, and we don’t have the time. some others pointed out the importance of giving us more time. no, sorry, we don’t have that. a long reparation will actually endanger us more – all of us, all on this planet. last but not least, it has been a privilege to work in this house together with the shadows. i would also, commissioner, like to mention a shadow who is now going to be your colleague in the commission, ms mcguinness. i would like to say that she did a tremendously good job and that she will be a good colleague of yours, so i also mention that. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place shortly and the final vote in the afternoon of wednesday, 7 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. european climate law is a legal act that sets the path for the european union to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. it's not an easy process. many are concerned about the competitiveness of our companies, the preservation of jobs and the possible rise in the prices of products and services. this is a particular challenge for poland, given the very high share of coal in electricity and heat production. but a radical reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is absolutely necessary to stop climate catastrophe. it's no longer a question of whether, but when and how to achieve that goal. there is no doubt that the fight against climate change today must be fought on many fronts, and climate neutrality will not be achieved by european climate law alone. the european commission has already announced, among other things, the revision and expansion of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, the tightening of carbon emission standards for road vehicles, further support for the development of electromobility, and the improvement of energy efficiency and renewable energy policies. these actions are necessary to decarbonise the european economy. however, adequate financial support for example through the eu's cohesion policy and the just transformation fund is equally important. only then can we reconcile climate protection with the socio-economic challenges we face today.
in writing. european climate law is one of the flagship elements of the european green deal and as such should be characterised as the highest legislative standard. i have some reservations about the envi report. first, the impact assessment of this proposal is not sufficient it should cover both the eu as a whole and the member states, and include specific data on the impact of the increased target on individual sectors. secondly, the trajectory being set by one institution alone, the european commission, without a wider consultation of stakeholders and member state governments, raises serious doubts. thirdly, as a member of the agri committee in the european parliament, i do not support the introduction of a climate-related greenhouse budget, which would burden all sectors, including the agricultural sector. farmers will be burdened not only by the new ecological requirements of the farm to fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy, but also by greenhouse gas emissions requirements. we must not forget that agriculture is a carbon emitter, but also a significant carbon sink. this role must be emphasised at every step if we do not want excessive demands to force farmers to stop production. for the reasons mentioned above, i voted against the report on european climate law.
in writing. floods, droughts, tornadoes, extreme heat, rising sea and ocean levels, species extinction, famine, forced migration and epidemics. these are just some of the effects of the climate crisis. decades of ruthless exploitation of the planet's resources have brought us to the brink of collapse. many of the losses we have suffered are irreversible, but we can and must take steps to save the earth and its people from disaster. according to a unep report published in 2019, achieving the 1.5°c target of the paris agreement as the desired state will require the eu to reduce emissions by at least 65% by 2030. scientific studies clearly show that the effects of an increase in average temperature of even 0.5°c above 1.5°c would be incomparably more severe. in the first case, it is estimated that about 37% of the population will be exposed to extreme temperatures once every 5 years, and in the second case, it is 14%. a 2°c rise in temperature would also mean the loss of about 99% of coral reefs and a rise in sea level of 0.46 m. the stakes are high. it is therefore important that the eu does not compromise and follows the current scientific knowledge, which is clear in this area. an ambitious 2030 reduction target is necessary and we need to start implementing it today.
mr president, since 27 september a war has been raging on the doorstep of the european union. the azerbaijani army attacked nagorno-karabakh as it did against armenia last july. first of all, i would like to express my deepest sympathy for the civilian population, who have been terrorized, injured and killed by the raids. after long days of stunned silence, the international community has finally begun to move. the echr ruled in an emergency, and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe was very clear about turkey's interference in the conflict. our message must therefore be clear: an immediate cessation of hostilities, as the escalation of hostilities threatens the security of the entire region, and total firmness towards turkey, which is fuelling and exploiting the conflict, including by paying syrian mercenaries. and finally, for many years, the osce minsk group has been talking about creating a path to peace. it will have to make much more determined efforts to prevent the armenian genocide from happening again. the european union must be at the forefront of a peaceful settlement.
mr president, after syria, libya and the eastern mediterranean, the turkish government is methodically pursuing its political and cultural expansionism, this time in the nagorno-karabakh region. the turkish leader is fuelling already very strong regional tensions and, a century after a genocide, is causing new victims, especially armenians. in the face of these actions, i ask the european parliament: where is europe, commissioner? what are the effective responses to this nationalist and conquering leader who, at the gates of europe, is flouting our values and principles? i have said it and i repeat it here, with many members of parliament and in particular the french delegation of the epp by my side, that it is not acceptable that europe has not yet definitively abandoned the process of turkey's accession to the european union. this abandonment, not just the suspension, is now a requirement for a simple reason: europe is not a toy and our values, our principles, which are the basis of our civilisation and our cultural heritage, are not negotiable.
mr president, i consider mr borrell to be a leading and experienced politician and before he rejoices at my good words, i will tell him that leading and experienced politicians are for the difficult, the very difficult. in my view, therefore, it must take the initiative to impose a european embargo on the sale of weapons systems to turkey, because we see turkey's role in nagorno-karabakh, and we see it more generally in syria, libya, the eastern mediterranean. my proposal is not particularly original, because canada, which has already supplied the technology for turkish drones used in the war between azerbaijan and armenia, has imposed an export freeze, albeit belatedly. you will ask me what will happen to jobs, for example in spain, where a turkish aircraft carrier is being built. i think the solution to these problems is a common european defence policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, azerbaijan, in violation of the ceasefire agreement and international law, suddenly and unnecessarily attacked the armenians of nagorno-karabakh, aided by syrian terrorists and with the firm and obvious support and backing of turkey. history, my dear colleagues, is merciless and unkind to us. humanity a century ago was indifferent to the criminal actions of the young turks, and these led to the armenian genocide and the genocide of the pontic greeks. history has put us in the black pages of genocide, but it has also put those who were criminally indifferent when it was happening. it is the historic duty of the european union, and also its supreme duty, to stop the criminal acts of the turks and the azerbaijanis against our armenian brothers. what is the european union doing today, mr borrell? the great and proud armenian people, with their long history and their immense contribution to civilization and humanity, deserve and deserve our unwavering support. the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council and the commission, all of which have a common interest in the future, and which are also very close to the heart of europe, of freedom and democracy, i call upon you today to send a strong message. all of us with one voice, today, declare and proclaim that we are all armenians! we stand with armenia and with the struggling, tested armenian people against the azeris and turks.
mr president, vice-president borrell, the conflict in nagorno-karabakh is being unabashedly encouraged by turkey and is costing tens, hundreds of civilian lives, because in nagorno-karabakh an attempt is being made to exterminate the armenian population, that passionate people who have stood up to history and work peacefully, who have taken root there, while turkey does not recognize the genocide. mr vice-president, there are cluster bombs in nagorno karabakh, there are civilians being killed in nagorno karabakh, there are turkish-funded fighters who came from syria to nagorno karabakh, and if we have the first impression that turkey is confronting russia in the region, in the end turkey and russia serve the same goal: limiting the diversification of the european union's energy sources. so our findings and appeals for de-escalation are not enough. we must, as the european union, be actively involved in the caucasus region, guided by our principles, and defend our interests. someone here said it's time to close the wounds of history. the european union must not allow the armenian people to be forced to accept the fact that they are not a part of the soviet union, but that they are a part of the soviet union.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interesting and engaging remarks. i think your message is clear. it has been repeated 65 times, with different voices, but expressing the same concern and the same request to act. next monday, i will bring your voice to the foreign affairs council in luxembourg, where we will have to follow up on the situation and see what we can decide about it. but the european council has made it very clear that they consider that the frame in which to mediate and to act on this conflict is the osce minsk group co—chairs. this was clearly what the european council said. they asked me to support the work of the osce minsk group co—chairs. that’s what we are doing. but we have to allow this group of people to work because it is the only group that is being recognised by the two sides. i think that mr bütikofer is right when he says that there are some new things in this conflict. one is that the americans are withdrawing and turkey is taking a stronger, much more assertive, position. the european council also discussed the relationship with turkey – and i invite you to listen to the conclusions of the european council – and said that, in december, we will take stock of the evolution of the situation in the eastern mediterranean and all the conflicts in which turkey is more or less involved in order to take decisions on how we continue our relationship with the country. we are going to continue calling for a ceasefire and i will bring your voice to the foreign affairs council of ministers. we will remind both sides of the obligation to protect civilians under international humanitarian law and keep working with turkey in order to build a constructive contribution to the conflict settlement and help the efforts to stop the hostilities. we have a special representative for the south caucasus, who is there and who is in touch with both sides. yesterday, the turkish minister was in baku and i was really concerned when i saw that he was expressing full support for azerbaijan. my last talk with the azerbaijan minister was also very worrying because he was clearly saying that the fight will continue until armenia accepts a concrete schedule for withdrawing from nagorno—karabakh, which is a precondition for talks. it is very difficult. the situation is becoming worse and worse. all of you have been asking us to act, but i’ve been hearing very few concrete versions of the verb ‘act’. what do you mean by ‘act’? we can do what we can do, but this is the way that we have to take this situation. we’ll do whatever we can do in order, as i said, to support the osce minsk group co-chairs, which is the frame that the european council decided to support in order to look for a negotiated solution, pushing both sides to end the fighting, and especially putting pressure on turkey not to continue intervening. but by act if you mean take military action, that is completely out of the question. we are going to do what we can do as the european union with the resources that we have on the diplomatic arena, and wait for december, as decided by the european council, and see what happens from now until december to review our relationship with turkey. this is what the european council decided after a long discussion on turkey and our relations with turkey and i have to stick to that. i will obey, and i will try to implement, the mandate of the european council in order to support the osce minsk group co-chairs that i hope this week will have meetings with the foreign affairs minister of azerbaijan and i hope also with armenia.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the safety of our citizens is a priority for all of us in europe. to this end, it is important to preserve the stability, security and peace of our neighbourhood. the number one goal should be to stop the fighting. the parties must cease fire and return to the negotiating table, violence can lead nowhere, only peaceful negotiations can resolve the situation. the eu must support the steps towards peace. we have a shared responsibility to safeguard stability, especially when conflict breaks out in a region close to us, which could trigger new waves of migration that go beyond human lives.
in writing. – i am genuinely concerned about the rapid development of the armed conflict over nagorno-karabakh and believe that the only way to end the escalation is to end hostilities and begin to seek the resolve of the conflict by diplomatic means. the conflict claims lives of innocent people, hampers the development of the whole region and threatens european energy stability. i would like to emphasise that the armed conflict can only be resolved peacefully and in accordance with the principles of international law and the basic principles of the osce minsk group. it is important that both parties to the conflict, armenia and azerbaijan, enter into negotiations for a peaceful solution to the conflict at the highest level.
in writing. – the state of conflict between armenia and azerbaijan in nagorno karabakh is escalating with every passing day. i cannot stress the importance of the south caucasus for the european union enough, as we have managed to construct partnerships with most countries from that region. its volatility should be of greatest concern to the eu; we must be an active part of the process that will secure a ceasefire and a lasting peace between those two countries. this future agreement must also settle the status of nagorno karabakh, with highest regard to both international law and the realities on the ground. far too many unresolved disputes and frozen conflicts are scattered in the european union’s neighbourhood. these can easily turn violent and can fall under the influence of countries with unfriendly attitudes towards our union. the main causes behind most frozen conflicts in the region are the actions of russia, under all its historical avatars. we are also concerned about turkey’s implication in this long-lasting dispute. its support for one of the sides has the capacity to prolong and intensify this conflict. today we are witnessing the legacies generated by painful historical abuse and a continuum of poisonous interference.
in writing. the conflict in nagorno-karabakh that we are witnessing is actually the result of a frozen conflict that has not been resolved for many years, nor have there been any proper negotiations leading to the end of the dispute. as a result, we see civilians killed, their homes destroyed, and many of them become refugees, abandoning their life's work in search of safety outside their homes. we all want to stop the escalation of the conflict and start negotiating talks, and the prospect of war is of particular concern to us. it is clear that the nagorno-karabakh issue requires immediate action. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the issues of so-called 'frozen' conflicts are hotly debated only when there is an escalation of actions, including armed actions. i would therefore like to suggest that we pay more attention to these types of conflicts, especially as some of them are in the immediate vicinity of the eu. i propose that we support negotiations between the parties to the conflict now, before the conflict escalates.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr borrell fontelles for the information about the situation in iran and about the condition of the jcpoa. yes, this agreement is of important value for us. however, i would like to appeal for transatlantic unity on iran. despite disputes and competition between the united states and russia, the united states and china and the united states and iran, i think there is no room for the european union to be in the middle. there is no room for strategic autonomy in this particular case, especially in the case of iran. the european union has to take sides. we may differ, of course, about the measures and the instruments in how to deal with iran. however, we have to work together, because iran is determined to develop a nuclear programme and to change the security architecture. it’s a nasty regime which has disrespected human rights. there is no room for quick economic benefits. our security matters. let’s keep iran away from the nuclear bomb and let’s do it together.
madam president! small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are crucial to the eu economy they represent 99% of eu enterprises and provide two-thirds of private sector jobs. at the same time, they are the ones who have been most affected by the economic crisis related to covid-19. almost 90% of them reported a decrease in turnover and almost half had liquidity problems. these companies will therefore need more stable sources of financing, such as the capital market. especially since the measures taken so far are insufficient. the proposal for a multiannual financial framework and the eu's recovery plan do not respond to today's needs, and the strategy for a sustainable and digital europe published in march does not take account of the current economic situation. the project for the construction of the european capital markets union gives the impression that small and medium-sized enterprises are to be the focus of the construction of a common capital market in europe, but in reality we are hearing about the shift of national supervisory powers towards the european institutions, which will have harmful consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises, about the privileging of banks, and in addition new obligations are being proposed, for example in connection with the green transition. i urge us to start rebuilding the economy that was destroyed by the lockdown today, and then start the green agenda, or we will bury the legacy of many europeans for good. when building support instruments, we should also bear in mind that smes are not only the most affected by the economic crisis, but also the most affected by the additional administrative and other burdens. as regards digitalisation, i hope that it will be crucial for the efficient financing of the european economy. this is a potential that europe cannot afford to waste. i would, however, urge that we do not create a too mandatory legal framework which does not respond to the dynamic development of technology. only if we are open to dialogue will we create better opportunities for businesses and at the same time make life easier for consumers.
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday 7 october 2020. the final vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2020. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the second part of the vote. we will vote on the items on the agenda. before the vote, i would like to give the floor to mrs jytte guteland, who will be speaking in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, on the referral to the committee responsible for the interinstitutional negotiations and on the report on european climate law.
this proposal shall be put to the vote after the commission proposal has been voted on. voting will be open from 5:15 to 6:30 p.m. the same voting method as in previous elections was used. all votes will be cast by name and members will be able to check their votes and the results of the votes in a document which will be published on the plenary website. i call the second round of voting open. you can vote until 6:30 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. the sitting will be suspended after the second part of the vote at 6.30 p.m. and resumed tomorrow morning at 8.30 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
madam president! thank you very much for your voice in this very important discussion in europe, but also in the world. i am from poland and i invite you to poland because very often here poland is blamed for allegedly not respecting the rule of law, and it is in poland that the country is very effectively fighting white collar criminals, especially those who brazenly exploit bank customers, including money laundering. there is hardly a week, there is hardly a month, that the public does not hear about the arrests and the charges that have been made in these proceedings that we are discussing today. you have to be effective and put on a very effective fight, give the prosecution tools and demand that they act effectively. this is what is happening today under the direction of the attorney general, minister of justice, mr. zbigniew ziobra. powerful bankers, firmly in the top echelons of power, with extensive international connections and working for europe's largest banks - that's the way it is. we must fight it, not talk about fighting it, but impose laws with a heavy hand to stop this brazen practice.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is unacceptable that during this crisis the most vulnerable citizens, whether because of their age or their specific needs, have suffered more than others during this crisis. this has been done in complete silence, without any adequate response from either the member states or the european union. however, who warned in march of the dire situation in long-term care facilities in the eu, pointing out that half of all covid-19-related deaths occurred in these facilities. the isolation, lack of equipment, protection and medicines, and the lack of testing for residents have made these institutions nests of infection where health security measures have not been guaranteed. many states have even ignored the deaths in these homes in their statistical counts, in an attempt to hide the reality of the situation. i call on this parliament to set up a committee of inquiry to shed light on what has happened. the eu is also committed to the protection of the rights of the child. and it is our responsibility to give these people a voice and to show that there are no second-class citizens in europe. i will conclude with two questions to the commission: do you agree that there is an urgent need to apply article 19 of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in europe? and in doing so, to direct european investment towards care based on mutual aid, self-determination and life outside specialised institutions, care that allows for greater respect for the freedom of these people?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the ongoing pandemic, the elderly in long-term care facilities are the most vulnerable to the deadly effects of the disease. older people who have been chronically ill are at the highest risk of infection, and they have a higher rate of disease and mortality. the death rate among the elderly is as high as 15 percent, and in nursing homes, it's much higher. this was the case in hospitals in many european countries - france, spain, belgium, italy - where the mortality rate was much higher, between 30 and even 50%. these facilities became hotbeds of infection, which also decimated the staff, causing severe shortages that were difficult to fill. patients could feel discriminated against. the most dramatic example is spain, where selection was introduced in the selection of patients for treatment. the lifetime threshold was often not met by people in longterm care. it is shocking and unacceptable that in a europe that speaks of solidarity, wants to be solidarity, such situations happen, and the dilemma of who to treat and who not to treat has to be decided by the doctor. we have an increase in covid-19 cases and a seasonal increase in flu cases. how will this past experience affect the approach to long-term care? will this spring's painful lesson be learned? we have less time, but we know more.
for the group gue/ngl mr. chairman, madam commissioner, thousands of residents of these facilities, these nursing homes, have died directly from covid-19, but thousands more have died from the very isolation, fear and loneliness that has made their condition worse, and we must not forget that. these people could live another 20 years and enrich the younger generation with their knowledge and presence. i must say i am a little alarmed, commissioner, to hear you tell us that you will be drawing up new action plans and strategies. the nursing home system, the care of the elderly has been absolutely neglected for 20 years. it is also underfunded by the commission, which has decided several times to privatise it in various ways or to cut it. i was expecting you to take the money you're wasting on armaments and shit like that, and put it into funding the people who work in the nursing homes, and put it into building new nursing homes. action plans, strategies and talk are no longer going to help us. the employees and the people in these houses, they're the ones we need to be concerned about right now.
mr president, we have known for years that one of the biggest challenges, if not the biggest challenge to our health systems, is the ageing of the population. these care models, which have so far focused on acute illnesses, are increasingly focusing on chronic illnesses. our hope? to respond to this challenge from the community paradigm, which is to treat and care for the chronic patient without separating him from his own social and family environment. but let's not kid ourselves, because this virus has come to complicate things for us very dramatically. indeed, to protect the elderly population from the pandemic, health authorities have been forced to impose drastic measures of isolation or, at least, of restriction of the degree of social interaction of these elderly people, both in residences and in homes, whether assisted or ordinary. what a contradiction! and, furthermore, the long-term care professionals have often found themselves very alone in their fight against covid, and very unprotected. it is imperative to provide them with more resources and better working conditions, but above all, let us not wait until tomorrow to make a critical review of a model of housing that is far from a profound idea of intergenerational solidarity.
madam president, please. the pandemic has shown us more than anything that people in institutions are in a very vulnerable position. especially in the nursing homes, there were many deaths in the spring. in this regard, the case of budapest, the capital of hungary, was also instructive. the left-wing city government, for political reasons, did not implement the right-wing government's protective measures. the result was tragedy. in one home, 313 caregivers and 21 workers became infected, and 55 of them died. the investigation has shown that the left-wing leadership is clearly responsible. my fellow citizens, the coronavirus is not political. we must be united! i call on all my fellow politicians, regardless of party affiliation, to unreservedly support the measures taken by national governments to combat the epidemic. if you don't agree with this, at least don't stand in the way of it. even though we're in the middle of the second wave, and the elderly and disabled are equally at risk, it's not too late to come together. human lives cannot be sacrificed on the altar of politics!
mr president, no access to healthcare services, no infection protection measures or testing, isolation from society – but we did not only leave the residents of long—term care facilities without the necessary support, we forgot that elderly people and people with disabilities have the right to live independently and be included in the community. that is their fundamental human right. the right to independent life is not only our moral obligation, but also – above all – a matter of compliance with the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities that was ratified not only by all member states, but also by the eu. we need to stop delaying the transition away from institutions now.
mr president, unfortunately the covid-19 pandemic has hit everyone; who have lost their jobs, who are part-time, who are sick and recovered, who have lost someone close to them and who have unfortunately been left behind by the virus. the world has been turned upside down but we cannot let this virus win. we must defeat him today before tomorrow. today we are focusing our discussions on the facilities we are offering to our elderly people - those who are unfortunately more vulnerable, particularly those suffering from dementia, and who are therefore more aggressively affected by the covid virus. all over europe, but also in countries, we have seen the virus explode in nursing homes, and i understand that it is not easy to control the spread of the virus, but i believe that, even at european level, we must ensure the most basic standards to every home, every nursing home and every hospital. more than seven months have passed since the pandemic began to spread in europe, we have lost a lot but we have also learned. and so i call on the european commission to ensure basic standards in every nursing home and hospital we have in europe.
mr president, it can’t go unnoted today that the accidental, but most notorious, long-term care facility in the eu burned down last month, in moria in lesbos, but that is a debate we’ve already had. today, i want to note that at the very beginning of the covid outbreak, a lot of mistakes were made in relation to nursing homes, particularly around the wearing of masks, advice about allowing visitation, etc. we’ve learned some very hard lessons, as other speakers have said. more than half of the deaths in the eu, according to the wto, were in nursing homes. in this second wave, as it appears to be apparent, i think we should also concentrate, as others have said, on people living in long-term residential care with physical and learning disabilities, of whom there are very many. i received an email from a constituent, which i want to quote: ‘we brought our special needs son back to his residential home last week, as my wife and i are totally drained after five months of cocooning. as per rules of the residential home, he has to spend 14 days in isolation in his bedroom’, which underlines the distress for both parents and for patients. i wish to make two quick points. one, we have to make sure that we fund staff with ppe, with testing and with overtime cover and decent wages, and we have to partner with families and listen to older people who know better than anybody else the balance that has to be struck between the loss of emotional and physical contact, and public health on the other hand.
mr president, long-term care facilities, i.e. nursing homes and continuing care clinics, are at the heart of the thinking about the effects of the coronavirus. in my country, france, the elderly account for 95% of the deaths we deplore. what have we done for the elderly in france? i didn't say anything. we have been cutting budgets, increasing costs and making pensioners more vulnerable. the government is now in the process of creating a new branch of social security, called "dependency", but it is communicating and improvising, as it has been since the beginning of the pandemic. first, in the hospital, where 3,400 beds were cut in 2019, we went from staff reductions to funding cuts. the nurses demonstrated for two years their anger in the street, they were never listened to. i would also like to remind you that between 2011 and 2018, the european commission asked member states no less than 63 times to reduce their health expenditure. you are responsible too. in the case of ehpad, during several months of confinement, the dead were not known or counted, abandoned, deprived of protective equipment due to a shortage for which the state is responsible. during the lockdown, our elderly, already abandoned in institutions lacking resources and staff, were deprived of visits from their loved ones, sometimes missing them in their last moments. this deplorable situation will only get worse. demographers predict that the number of dependent older people will double by 2060. the european population in general is ageing and shrinking. we need young people, of course, not only to take care of the elderly but also to take over their responsibilities, without which a nation cannot survive. far from the amateurism that has characterised this crisis management, the situation of care establishments imposes two conclusions. on the one hand, to strengthen assistance to older people, not only in economic and medical terms, but also in terms of social and family inclusion. and secondly, to initiate a renewal of european citizenship, which will support and accompany our elders.
mr president, the situation in spain's retirement homes has been dramatic: our elders have been imprisoned. it's not a metaphor. it is literal: locked up, beaten, screaming through the doors; their caregivers have been unable to do anything, they were without means and had a government order to forbid them to leave, not even to the hospital, evicted. the media has not reflected the real situation; it has been silenced. they have been deaths in complete loneliness, in deep sorrow for the distance from their families. how could this happen? what are the values of a culture that lets its parents die? they are the wisdom reserve of our society. the heart of our families. we are facing one of the greatest threats that any civilization can face: dehumanization.
the uachtaráin, is an important subject in the gach duine againn. i'll return to english as unfortunately there are no irish interpreters available. covid 19 outbreaks in care facilities have had a devastating impact on all our communities. in ireland, we have seen many clusters of covid in nursing homes, with tragic results. an example of this in my own constituency would be dealgan nursing home, a privately run facility in dundalk. last april and may, almost a third of the residents in that nursing home died of covid. this case really highlights the lack of state oversight in my member state regarding privately run and profitdriven care facilities, leaving them vulnerable to mismanagement. there are many similar examples and we need a public inquiry on such matters to learn from this pandemic. most importantly, it shows that we must, as a society, commit to universal public health and social care that will better protect our communities from communicable diseases such as covid. go raibh maith agaibh. thank you very much.
mr president, interruption of care, isolation, excessive mental strain, lack of protective and testing equipment, reduction in staff in long-term care facilities in border areas due to the closure of borders, risks of violence and abuse - these are the situations faced by people with special needs and care staff. the impact of the covid-19 crisis could have been limited if member states had allowed europe to play a leading role in coordinating crisis management policies. europe can collect data, monitor exchanges of good practice, anticipate risks and act in a coordinated way. this is why the s&d group supports the idea of a health union. our demands are: to make social europe a priority of the european semester alongside financial issues in order to contribute to the refinancing of healthcare in europe; to implement a european strategy for people with disabilities, which can provide answers in times of health crisis such as covid-19; and above all, to revise schengen, in order to guarantee access to cross-border care and the mobility of healthcare professionals and to finance the creation of community care institutions, especially in rural areas.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i am glad that we have taken up this important subject today. the epidemiological situation in long-term care homes was very bad, especially during the first wave of the pandemic. in some countries, deaths in these facilities accounted for more than half of all covid-19 deaths. of course, nursing home residents are at increased risk, but reports from various countries indicate that many of the safety measures have been taken too late or inadequately. the most important thing now is to learn from these dramatic events, because it is already clear that the pandemic is still going on and has not been overcome yet, and we still have a long fight ahead of us. to do this, we also need coordinated action at european level. the main challenges should be clearly identified and how member states can be supported in crisis management in these facilities. it is essential to have an adequate surveillance system to collect and transmit the necessary data and to detect new outbreaks as early as possible in order to minimise transmission between patients and staff.
mr. chairman, please! long-term care facilities are primarily people who work there, people who are exceptional, because, as you know, first of all, they don't make much, and second of all, the work at that time was a huge risk to life, and yet they stayed in the place to serve the disabled, to serve the elderly, to serve the sick. that's why it's a unique kind of solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you mentioned many negative cases where people died without any help, you mentioned cases in spain. and i want to tell you about a very positive case from the social aid house in bochnia, poland, where there was no help because of the coronavirus, but the dominican sisters who worked there for a long time and helped the sick volunteered. we appreciate the presence of individuals like the dominican sisters. we can tell you that we have had many such positive experiences in poland.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. nineteen years so long, without any trial, without even a charge, dawit isaak, a journalist, writer and two-time sakharov prize finalist, has been in prison. he was imprisoned after publishing an open letter calling for democratic reforms. twenty-one other people were arrested along with him, and all independent media were subsequently banned. so this was a blatant and brutal attack on freedom of speech. today, we call on the eritrean government to immediately release david isaac and other prisoners of conscience. we also demand that the european union be able to contact the imprisoned journalist, who is also a citizen of the european union, and to have access to information about his health and to provide support. without a free media and respect for human rights, there is no democracy. we therefore call on the eritrean government to restore democratic order, guarantee the free functioning of the media and restore the rule of law, which does not allow innocent citizens to be held in prison. at the same time, until the necessary changes are made, we cannot allow eu funds to be used to support the eritrean government. this support should go directly to the citizens of the country and support democracy, human rights and humanitarian action.
the s&d group. mr president, the dawit isaak case is emblematic of the situation in eritrea, which is one of the world's harshest military dictatorships. in this dictatorship, forced labour is organised institutionally by the government, with this famous system of unlimited national service. european support for eritrea should never contribute to this forced labour. yet by financing this country with development aid, by financing its roads without ensuring that they are not built on the basis of forced labour, we are complicit in this practice. moreover, no migrant should be allowed to return to this country, which is considered to be the most repressive in the world. and yet, with the support of the european union, iom has sent dozens of eritreans back to their country, guaranteeing them imprisonment and thus the same abuses and mistreatment that journalist dawit isaak is suffering in eritrean prisons. so yes, we must raise our voices about what is happening in eritrea, but we must also be accountable for our actions, both on the issue of development cooperation and on the issue of returning migrants to that country.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. eritrea has all the hallmarks of a totalitarian state, whether it's the state, the lack of elections, the absence of parliament, the lack of freedom, any freedom at all, the press, the opposition, the lack of trials, the abuse of power. david isaak, who we're talking about today, is a symbol of that kind of behavior. not only has he been in prison for over 20 years, but he's been detained without trial, without a right to a defense, without reliable information about his health. i therefore join all my colleagues in this house in calling for the european union to take a very strong stand in defence of this and other political prisoners in this regime. and i think that's the kind of thing that we should be spending a lot of time on if we're talking about freedom of speech, the fundamental values that make up the european union. we should fight for such people all the more, since they are also swedish citizens, and that is why it is our obligation.
executive vice—president of the commission. – madam president, i think it is kind of strange: we are few here because this is a digital debate, and yet the energy and the enthusiasm is to be felt. i think that comes from the fact that the work done is truly impressive, because it’s work that has involved so many colleagues in this assembly, so many colleagues who have done the effort to study the subjects, to form opinions and to discuss. even though it will be, i think, a truly amazing debate today, it will in no way do justice to what has gone before this debate, because it is truly a thing that includes the entire parliament. this is also why it’s a bit unfair to start thanking some rapporteurs and leaders in this, but i would say to alex saliba, tiemo wölken and kris peeters that this is outstanding work. we will respond to your initiatives with two legislative proposals: the digital services act and the digital markets act, and this will reflect ideas. fundamentally we share the same goals. i think that is most obvious. we want to better protect citizens when they use the internet, whether that is in protection against illegal goods, services, content online. as it was put, we need to make sure that as we feel safe offline we should feel safe online. also, to better secure the freedom of expression online. this of course, as you have heard already, is a tricky balance to strike. to achieve this, we need to lay down a solid and impactful eu—wide accountability framework. obviously that has to come with enforcement, because words alone will not do it; then it would be just window dressing. the balance we will have to strike here is of course that we will have to say to some of the gatekeepers, the largest platforms, that things will change. europe is open and we will do this in full compliance with our international obligations, also because we would want to work with the rest of the world to set new standards. in order to do so, we intend to break down legal barriers in the internal market and combat unfair practices by gatekeeper platforms. this will help european innovators, small businesses, to scale, to grow, to be able to compete for our attention, to compete for our business. with the digital services act i think two things have stood the test of time: no general monitoring of user content is one; and, second, a well—balanced system of liability, and the internal market as the core. but things have changed, so obviously we also need to set out in law the responsibilities that platforms must have in relation to their role as societal and economic impactors, as they are. this is one of the reasons why we’re working on this digital markets act in parallel with the digital services act. this regulation will specifically target large digital gatekeepers defined by objective criteria, setting out a clear list of ‘dos and don’ts’ in full compliance again, of course, with international obligations. it will also provide for a market investigation framework to address digital markets that may be prone to market failure and prone to the creation of new gatekeepers. on artificial intelligence, let me thank also mep ibán garcía del blanco for the intense work. i really welcome parliament’s contribution here. this is ground—breaking, this has not been done before. we share the same ambition to create a sound and future—proof legal framework for trustworthy artificial intelligence in europe so that people can benefit from ai—driven products and services that are safe and that respect european fundamental rights and values. for this we need an ai framework that creates new opportunities for european businesses to innovate, to scale up. we ought to be the global hub for ai made in europe and set the global standard for trustworthy ai. we want to fully leverage the potential of ai while mitigating associated risks, and i think we all recognise that this is the balance. we will be discussing this back and forth and back and forth, because it is indeed a balance to be struck as not every ai implies a risk. high—risk applications of ai should be put under intense scrutiny. however, we should not define high—risk ai so broadly that it creates legal uncertainty and disproportionately overburdens businesses or hampers innovation. we need to form a framework that is future—proof, and i expect that we will engage in this very intensely because it is indeed a balance. we also welcome the report for dealing with liability for ai, and here axel voss has done outstanding work. it’s very impressive, and we agree that the current liability rules are challenged by ai characteristics. our institutions also agree on the objective for liability aiming for the same level of protection for victims of ai—related damages, and victims of damages of other technologies. i think that is a very sound and straightforward principle. for what concerns the product liability directive, the commission appreciates the parliament report. we will carefully consider it and then we will discuss. on the parliament report on intellectual property (ip) rights, i think that shows the pivotal role of ip rights for the eu to become a leader in artificial intelligence. without this, it will not happen, and we want to thank also mep stéphane séjourné for his excellent work. we need an eu ip framework that enables innovations in the field of ai technologies. companies in the european union, must be able to efficiently protect but also to share their inventions in the field of ai technologies. that is what will create excellence in artificial intelligence. thank you again also for this ground—breaking work. last, but not least, i think this will be an amazing debate. we have started it, i think, already in the best possible manner. one of the delights is to see how there is convergence between the different reports, between the thinking of the commission and what parliament is proposing here. i think that is very strong because that shows citizens that what we want to create is a society where technology serves humans, where humans are empowered, where humans are in control. we don’t want a society where people feel estranged, feel that there is the risk that some machine will take some decision in complete transparency without knowing if their rights are actually being fulfilled. we have one generation to do this. this is now, it is happening, and i do hope that you will recognise many of these valuable points in what we suggest. i’m looking forward not only to the debate today, not only to the proposals, but also to the debate that we will have to make sure that we get a strong european regulatory framework that can actually be enforced in real life.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union's efforts to deepen the digital single market, which will increase europe's digital sovereignty and competitiveness, should be a priority for us, especially now, after the experience of the coronavirus epidemic, one of the most important tasks for this house. i therefore welcome the commission's commitments and progress in introducing a harmonised approach to the obligations of digital service providers, including online intermediaries, to avoid fragmentation of the internal market and inconsistent enforcement. however, when introducing new legislation, we must bear in mind that imposing unnecessary new obligations on smes may hamper their development and prevent them from gaining a foothold in the market. the digital code must also respect the fundamental rights of users and consumers, such as privacy and non-discrimination, and above all, it must not undermine the freedom of expression the great achievement of the internet. i would also like to stress the importance of respecting different national traditions, so that when we fight illegal content we do not impose the same rules across europe, for example in the case of controversial statements. i therefore support the continuation of the general content monitoring obligation and believe that the content moderation system should be monitored so that it does not become a tool of censorship in the hands of private companies. the digital services code can only interfere with illegal content, there can be no compromise in the defense of freedom of speech.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted. mr president, the desire to build machines to replace human activities has existed for centuries. what was once considered the future is now part of our daily lives under the name of artificial intelligence. artificial intelligence is therefore a data-driven model and this data is the main catalyst for innovation in the current digital and technological age. as regards transport, whether in automated vehicles, infrastructure or intelligent traffic management solutions for goods or simply for mobility, the levels of automation and artificial intelligence, while different, are highly developed in this sector compared to other sectors. our role as co-legislators is to ensure that the union creates common principles adapted to this reality, that in the framework of civil liability in europe the same levels of consumer protection are guaranteed when it comes to the use of artificial intelligence in physical or virtual space, ensuring trust in these systems, supporting technological innovation without creating unnecessary bureaucracies for the business fabric that intends to innovate. i think that is the direction we all must and must work towards.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, as the draftsperson for the committee on transport and tourism opinion on intellectual property (ip), i can say that the role of ai in these sectors will be crucial. traffic safety and security in all transport modes, automated driving, navigation, car manufacturing, the hostility sector – these need access not only to big data but also to standard-essential patents (sep) and other intellectual property under equal and fair conditions throughout the eu internal market. but with ai it became obvious that intellectual property protection strategies of the past cannot work. we must develop flexible copyright, patent, trademark design protection and even trade secret rules that will accommodate all these new aspects. europe needs these legal instruments fast. we need the ip and ai framework that incentivises innovation and protects europe’s pole position in car manufacturing and in tourism, for example. there is no time to waste, so i am urging the commission to act as fast as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president , while the advantages of ai for society as a whole are indisputable, we need to make sure that everyone benefits from it. digital social exclusion: without the know-how on the ever-progressing digital tools, many of our citizens will not be able to benefit from them, especially senior citizens. but, not only that, they might also be excluded from certain public spaces completely, if the only way to participate is digitally and they have no such competence. education is key. we need custom-tailored digital education at all levels. education is also paramount for fighting ai-related conspiracy theories, which feed the agenda of those who want to politically cash in on people’s fears. let me just mention 5g or chemtrails conspiracies. so, once again, education is essential for this process to be successful.
mr. chairman, please! today, the entire civilized world is in shock at the brutal murder of a french schoolteacher by an orthodox barbarian. today is also the tenth anniversary of the politically motivated murder of law and justice activist marko rosiak in poland. what do these murders have in common? the sick hate and the fact that there are people on the internet who have glorified and even called for similar actions. it therefore follows the direction of the report in question, which calls for the removal without undue delay of illegal content, especially that relating to children and of a terrorist nature. the new rules must contribute to enhancing online security and combating cybercrime, while guaranteeing the protection of the fundamental rights of internet users, in particular freedom of expression and the right to information. attention should be drawn to the danger of censoring content for its conformity with the political correctness imposed by the left-liberal elites. the right to freedom of expression, for example in matters of worldview, cannot be allowed to be restricted under the slogan of fighting dangerous illegal content.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of the epp group responsible for the three opinions of the committee on culture and education on the european union's legal framework for digital services, i would like to say that this legal framework needs to be updated to reflect the rapid digital transformation. we therefore look forward to the european commission's ambitious legislative package. i would like to draw attention to two points from the point of view of the committee on education and culture. first, there is the problem of prompt removal of illegal content. this is particularly important in the case of infringements of live content, such as sports events or music concerts. in its opinion, the culture committee called on the european commission to clarify what the immediate removal of illegal content, already referred to in article 14 of the e-commerce directive, means. online intermediaries should respond immediately after receiving the notification from rightholders, within a maximum of 30 minutes. this is crucial when removing illegal content live. secondly, i would also like to mention the amendment my group has tabled to the report by mr saliba, member of the imco committee. i hope it will have broad support from all political groups. in this amendment we would like to add a reference to the directive on audiovisual services. it is worth recalling that the digital services act should apply without prejudice to other sectoral legislation such as the copyright directive or the personal data protection regulation. unfortunately, at this stage, this reference to the audiovisual services directive is missing, and i therefore ask you to support this amendment in the vote. i also very much regret that there is unfortunately no specific paragraph in the annex to the legal affairs committee's report which clearly states that the digital services act should be a horizontal framework complemented by existing and future sectoral legislation such as copyright law and the audiovisual services directive and that the legislator will avoid a conflict of laws. i hope that when we receive the legislative proposal from the european commission, we will have a clear reference on this issue.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am glad that you have come to this important debate tonight, mr roth, and i would like to refer again to what i said earlier. how can we manage to transfer all the good ideas that are coming from the commission or from parliament to the member states? if europe fails to act as one at the end of the day, we will not be able to compete with china and the united states in the end. i believe that we need a different mindset in the member states, namely that we should pursue a european objective and not a national objective at european level. i don't know how we're gonna do this, and i don't want to blame you, because i know you're not on the same page. but i think that is one of the main reasons why we will not succeed if we do not move forward with europe, or why we will not succeed in implementing it accordingly. so i think we have to work towards really acting as one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we also need many, many other small things, whether it's money, investment and infrastructure, etc., to become digitally sovereign, to be able to compete. i think it is also the fault of the member states that we are blocking each other too much here, and that is why i would ask that we move forward again. i think we need a sensible strategy, a concept in this respect, and i think that what we have heard today can be improved by the commission itself. i think that we must also enforce the rules we have in the end. but there is no way around the fact that we must act as one and move forward, and not just be concerned that things are going well in france, germany, spain, etc. we must take a step forward as a whole.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this has indeed been a rich, nuanced, very, very good debate. we have come from liability, intellectual property rights, innovation, hate speech, upload filters, consumer protection – i think we have shown the width and the depth of the work that has been ongoing here. but, the thing is that the fundamental question is answered with a ‘yes’. can we have a european model? there are other models, obviously. but the debate tonight has shown with all clarity that no one wants just to leave that to the state. neither will anyone just say, ‘well, let business take care of this’. now this has been a promise: that democracy will shape our society. that promise has been given tonight by everyone who has been taking the floor, that in our democracy we will shape this – for the state, for the business community, to serve the real asset here, which is the individual citizen, and that i find extremely promising. obviously, the level of complexity is quite high. there’s been a lot of very nuanced speeches, trying to balance that on the one hand, there are so obviously things that should not be out there, because it’s illegal in the offline world, while at the same time, no one wants censorship, no one wants the state to control. no one wants to limit a debate that can be free and nurture our democracy and that, of course, is the thing that we will have to grapple with in the months to come. i just read an article in a danish paper, in danish, about artificial intelligence and part of that article was written by ai, in my mother tongue, on a rather complex subject, and i couldn’t distinguish what was written by the authors and what was written by ai. maybe the grammar was slightly better by the ai – i wouldn’t know, but it’s just to say that when we’re in a world where artificial intelligence can write an op-ed, can write a poem, can write music, and we cannot tell the difference anymore, then it’s about time that democracy catches up with technology. otherwise we cannot stand by the promise that the humans are the empowered here and that the machine is a servant. the thing is that now the digital world, the online world, is not another world. it’s our world. for the children who are being bullied, it is just as real as when it was in the schoolyard back in the day. for the people who decide not to participate in democracy because of the hate speech online, it is as real as if someone has threatened them offline. this is our world and this is now, when we went to frame it, because it has matured. back in the digital stone age, in the year 2000, of course, how could we have known any better? but this is the time and with this level of complexity, what a pleasure it is to see that we then discuss the principles. what are the fundamentals? that humans are in control; that transparency, responsibility, accountability, is what we want to work with; that you should know your customer; that you should be able to identify yourself to create the trust that people know who they are dealing with and you know that you are in control of the data that you create. the principle of freedom, of fair markets. i think that is the core of the debate today and then, of course, the obvious: that the legislation that we will discuss and hopefully decide upon, should be implemented, should be enforceable, so that these promises are not empty, that it’s not just more words on paper, but that it’s real rights for citizens, for businesses, in the real world, to make the best possible use of digital technologies. it is, of course, a framework of legislation. it is the digital services act, the digital market act, it’s the legislation on artificial intelligence. it will be the data governance act and the data act and the european digital identity, just to mention the most obvious things. that should create ecosystems of excellence – because europe has so much to offer. we have a culture of doing this and we will do it again. this is how we can create an ecosystem of trust, so that citizens do not feel estranged to a society that they have seen in the movies and found fascinating, but never ever wanted to live in. and obviously, as was just said, this is a european debate that should be rooted in every member state. as we have seen with all the different proposals coming in every member state because this is not just something down in brussels. this is grown from every member state but it needs a european response and this response you have given tonight by a promise that democracy will make sure that we frame this. (applause)
in writing. the types of digital services and the roles of digital service providers have changed significantly since the e-commerce directive was adopted 20 years ago. in the changed circumstances, member states have started to define network services differently (e.g. netzdg in germany, french law on illegal online content, etc.) and this would inevitably lead to the fragmentation of the eu single market. it is therefore essential to modernise the definition of network services. the main elements of the e-commerce directive, namely the principle of limited liability, the principle of country of establishment (coo) and the principle of non-general monitoring obligation, should certainly be preserved in the context of the transposition. regulation of digital services should not impose disproportionate new obligations on undertakings. nor should regulation be a hindrance to innovation. i am categorically opposed to the banning of the use of ai-based facial recognition systems by the public sector. we have to protect people's privacy, but we can't kill innovation. i don't think it's wise to ban targeted advertising. as a consumer, i prefer to be informed about goods and services that are of real interest to me, rather than being drowned out by the noise of advertising. it was with a heavy heart that i supported the compromise.
in writing. artificial intelligence is a very difficult topic from a legal point of view. it must be made clear that we cannot accept a state in which decision-making is completely independent of man. artificial intelligence comes with a lot of convenience, it makes our lives easier, it helps, no doubt, but it cannot be responsible. all processes based on it, their design and creation must always be the responsibility of man. there can be no question of any transfer of state authority to machines.
in writing. the digital services code is an initiative that aims to improve the functioning of the single market for digital services. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. in addition to market improvements, it will be equally important to increase network security and protect the fundamental rights of internet users, and to establish effective market surveillance for the moderation of illegal content by intermediaries. in today's world of widespread access to online content, there is a need for transparent tools to notify platforms and appeal their decisions. the current rules and practices are not consistent, which is to a large extent to the detriment of users and is causing chaos in the single market. another important element is to ensure the security of all network users by preventing and combating cybercrime. the key issue will be to improve cooperation between online platforms and the competent law enforcement authorities in the individual member states, while maintaining the highest guarantees in the field of fundamental rights. there is a need to create an effective mechanism to separate illegal content from content that is legal but harmful or misinformative. dsa must be a future-proof solution that provides security and legal certainty to all digital market users.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the member states unanimously agreed to pursue a common security and defence policy by incorporating it into the treaty. strategies have been drawn up, agencies and instruments have been set up, defence funds have been set up. the question today is, are they effective? with each conflict in the union's neighbourhood, we become more aware of our dependence and almost vulnerability in the face of a potential threat. this is a step forward, but it's too small to say that we're actually able to make ourselves safe in our environment. in recent years, conventional threats have been joined by hybrid conflicts such as cyberattacks, disinformation and economic pressure. and then there are global challenges: climate change and pandemics. we realized that europe had to have an impact on the order in its region. our soft power must be complemented by hard power. the european union needs a common security and defence policy for its own security, for the stabilisation of its neighbourhood. those who today, including in my country, are shouting so loudly about national sovereignty, do not see or ignore our dependence on security. it's time to build a greater responsibility for our own security, not in opposition to nato, but alongside and in support of nato. however, the compromise reached on pesco has revealed the extent to which political rhetoric is not linked to military reality. political narratives of european strategic autonomy clash with the reality of a glaring lack of military capabilities and the current uncertainty about the us military presence on the continent. so what is pesco? the permanent cooperation in the field of security, as described in the treaty of lisbon over a decade ago, was only established in practice in 2017. it is a form of military and defence cooperation in which 25 member states, including poland, currently participate. it is based on two pillars: the implementation of 20 commitments and the joint implementation of projects. the main recommendations in my report are to call on participating member states to move from national defence priorities to a european approach, as no member state is able to address the current threats on its own. pesco was originally conceived as an avant-garde concept, involving the most advanced and ambitious member states in the field of defence. the participation of 25 countries means that pesco is not a cooperation of leaders. we urge that the covid-19 pandemic does not lead to national defense budget cuts, as paradoxically, military spending can increase readiness for the next pandemic. several of the pesco projects currently underway, such as military mobility and european medical command, would enhance our capacity to take collective action in a pandemic. we also recommend that consideration be given to the inclusion in pesco of the eu battle group system, which clearly needs reform. we suggest that this could increase its operational capacity and efficiency by creating permanent multinational units used for military or crisis management tasks. instead of merging a brigade with national battalions, a european brigade should be composed of volunteers from member states and be financed from a common budget and be subject to the foreign affairs council. finally, we call for the immediate adoption of a decision governing future cooperation with third countries under pesco.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today we are finalising the work on the cap for 2021-2027. support under the common agricultural policy in accordance with the treaty includes income support, market support as well as support for rural areas. unfortunately, the allocation of funds proposed for years now leads to the maintenance of grossly unfair differences in the level of support for farmers in the individual member states and is harmful to farmers in some member states, especially the new ones, including poland. in the opinion of the polish sejm, this violates the principle of non-discrimination between citizens on grounds of nationality (article 18 of the treaty). prohibition of discrimination between producers within the union (article 40 (2) of the treaty). when the common agricultural policy is being established, differences between agricultural regions may be taken into account, but not differences between member states (article 39 (2) of the treaty). this discrimination threatens the future of agriculture in some member states, in particular in poland. that's why i'm asking you to think about it. rule of law yes. non-discrimination should not exist either.
mr. chairman, please! the common agricultural policy is one of the foundations of the european union's single market. it is not just about supporting and promoting rural areas and achieving ambitious environmental and climate goals, but above all about ensuring food security for us europeans. our priority should be to create a level playing field for all farmers in the single market of the european union. we should simplify the rules and reduce administrative barriers, especially for small farms. the regulations proposed by the present parliament do not, in my view, provide such guarantees. the aim should be to achieve full equalisation of the level of direct payments between member states. this will help farmers in less developed countries to cope with the new obligations proposed by the european commission. i'm here to appeal to reason. remember, not all countries start at the same level of economic development! let's not create divisions, let's level the playing field!
in writing. in the face of the global coronavirus pandemic, we urgently need a new common agricultural policy that will provide food security and financial support for over 10 million farms in the eu. high quality and healthy food for 500 million europeans means efficient, financially stable and innovative agriculture! that is why direct payments under the european agricultural guarantee fund are so important. i do not agree that the distribution of funds between the individual eu countries is still unfair and unfair to farmers in some member states, including poland. the slow pace of alignment of the level of direct payments proposed by the commission maintains the disparities in support for agricultural producers operating in the single market, which are inconsistent with the new cap objectives. i agree with the need to increase the environmental and climate ambition of the cap. however, i am opposed to setting minimum levels of budgetary expenditure for eco-schemes. in my view, the approach that is more appropriate and effective is one in which the member states decide how, by what means and in what proportion these objectives are to be achieved. i also believe that member states should be given flexibility to use the unused funds for the year for eco-schemes. i believe we can reach an agreement quickly that is fair and equitable for all european farmers.
madam president! the belarusian people are waiting for a strong european voice, a strong voice of european support and solidarity, protesting in the streets of the cities, protesting for more than 10 weeks. that's hundreds of thousands of people. that determination is not going away. they want freedom and democracy. they are as united as ever, as we are united in this room, in solidarity. we don't recognize rigged elections. we demand the release of political prisoners, we are creating a sanctions list, but it is definitely not enough. we need to be more proactive, we need to be faster. and we do have the tools to do that. the belarusians are waiting for our activity, they are waiting for support and help. and this is not just a sanctions list, on which should be not only alexander lukashenko, but hundreds of omon torturers who beat innocent people. we also have the tools to launch a diplomatic mission, a high-level mission that will help resolve this conflict politically. it will also help the european commission in this task, working day by day in cooperation with the coordination commission. let's be more active. i'll say it again at the end. i believe that the belarusians will achieve their goal and there will be a free and democratic belarus. - howdy, whitey!
madam president, we have been devastated to witness police brutality in the us, hong kong and belarus. however, the same violent acts, even people dying in police custody, happen inside our own borders, especially to ethnic minorities. my home country, finland, has one of the most trusted police forces, yet we just saw the police using pepper spray against non-violent climate protesters. some of the protesters were children. to me, this is painful news because i started my political activism in the street as a climate activist. how can you trust the police after this kind of incident? we need to take action. if the police is tasked to regulate itself, as it often is, there is a conflict of interest. police forces needs training, regulation, oversight and accountability. police should be here to make us all feel safe, not afraid.
madam president! before taking up my seat in the european parliament, i had the honour of supervising the polish police as minister of the interior in the government of the republic of poland. this period is a source of pride for me, as i have seen the professionalism, dedication and commitment of police officers who 'often risked their lives' to ensure the safety of citizens. i have also been able to see firsthand, through the cooperation of the polish police with our partners in the european union, that this professionalism and dedication to fighting the most serious crimes, such as terrorism, trafficking in human beings, arms, drugs and paedophilia, is also shared by police officers throughout the european union on a daily basis. but today we're talking about the pathological and unacceptable behavior and criminal behavior of police officers. this is certainly outrageous and reprehensible behavior, but it cannot be used to generalize and unfairly judge the thousands of hardworking police officers who care about our safety. sometimes, let's remember, they pay the ultimate price, the price of their own lives.
madam president! let's remember that most police officers do a very good job for all citizens of the european union, but of course there are abuses. and the most important, and the biggest problem is when these abuses are authorized by the state, and their scale. there are only a few countries in the european union that are at the top of the list, and that's a real violation of the rule of law. one of those countries is, of course, france. let's look at the statistics: last year, in 2019, police killed 26 people, including 11 in the yellow vest protests alone. five people lost their hands in the grenade explosion, 2,000 were injured. the media reports almost 95 attacks on journalists. so i have a question: when will the debate on the violation of the rule of law in france and what president macron is doing take place? are they equal or more equal in this room? i'd also like to hear about the situation in germany. we all saw what happened in dusseldorf, we also saw what happened in north rhine-westphalia when the police brutally pulled the environmentalists and the women from the trees. that's why i'd like to hear what the situation is. and belgium should be a separate debate, this situation in belgium.
madam chairman, last year after floyd's death, in this hall there were demonstrations, there were statements by the black panthers, by the antifa, by all the anarchists, by all the communists. but two years before that, hovhaness died, and not a word about it. the other day in france, a teacher was beheaded. there are no declarations, there are no fists raised, there are no anxious appeals. why, reverend? it's very simple: because both victims were europeans, they were christians, they were part of this civilization; and their murderers were persecuted and protected by who? by the anti-fascists, by the antifa, by the black panthers and all the other marxist, extremist left-wing organizations that are waging a cultural war against our civilization, against our roots and against our belief in christianity. that's the reason, that's the double standard. otherwise we're arguing with poland, we're arguing with hungary that there were no rights and there was no rule of law. in conclusion, i express my sympathy with the bulgarian police, who for 100 days, despite their miserable equipment, their miserable pay, have managed to resist the provocations of anti-fascists, communists, provocateurs who throw bombs, stones, trees and whatever they can.
madam president, on october 1, 2017, the spanish police brutally beat thousands of catalan citizens who were only trying to vote peacefully. pictures of people bleeding have been going around the world, you've all seen them. i was, at the time, responsible for health in the catalan government. the report published by my ministry listed over 1,000 physical and psychological injuries. what has the union done about this? what did the commission say? i didn't say anything. shut up, now. what an embarrassing silence! we criticize police abuses everywhere, in belarus, in turkey, even in belgium, but when spain abuses, it is an internal matter. in the name of spanish unity, is everything allowed? while the strasbourg court condemned spain for the disproportionate action of its police, spain honoured the policemen who beat the catalans. perhaps the duty of proportionality does not apply to the catalan national minority? europe, stop being silent in the face of this repression!
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this debate and i very much welcome the strong commitment from the european parliament to act on these issues. many of you have referred to the tragic loss of mr chovanec’s life and we all share the emotions when we saw these shocking images, and i will also – as many of you already done – convey my deepest sympathy to mr chovanec’s family. it’s of utmost importance that the belgian authorities carry out independent and accountable investigations. we need to know all the facts, identify those responsible and take appropriate legal actions. i have the utmost trust respect and admiration for all the brave police women and policemen who do their duty, day in, day out to protect us. they are doing a great job. they have a very tough job and they deserve our support. but sadly the tragedy of mr chovanec is not the only one. that’s why we have to end racism. no institution is immune. not the commission, not the parliament, not the police. fighting racists will improve their ability to enforce the law, because law enforcement builds on the trust of the community.
the president of the council. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i have seen today's debate in the european parliament as an encouragement and also as a strengthening of our commitment to our values, to the rule of law, to democracy, to human rights. i would also like to thank you on behalf of the council for this important impulse and contribution. and so that there should be no doubt about it, especially since many members have referred to the tragic case of jozef chovanec: we too - the german presidency - deeply regret the death of mr chovanec. the debate we have had today is always painful. it's painful for those affected. it is also painful for the state and its political representatives, because the security services in a society where the state has a monopoly on violence naturally also have a special responsibility to ensure that we act decisively, decisively against any inappropriate behaviour by the police and our security services. the european union must take decisive action against racism, take decisive action against homophobia, take decisive action against antigypsyism and nationalism. and when we do that, we are protecting ourselves in front of the many, many police officers who do a great job every day. they protect us as citizens, they protect our liberal democracies, they protect our rule of law, they protect what is important to us, what is valuable to us and what makes us europeans at heart. and since - as i said in my introductory remarks - the member states are also responsible under our treaties, this naturally implies an obligation for all member states to live up to this responsibility and for all cases to be examined in accordance with the rule of law procedures. and these investigations within the framework of the rule of law also serve to protect the many police officers who protect us and our democratic societies. thank you again for this debate, and i hope that something will come out of it, namely a clear commitment to the rule of law for all of us.
this conversation is over. (the sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m.) the following are to be added to the list of persons who are to be included in the list:
in writing. police officers often risk their lives to protect us, often in difficult circumstances. of course, we all make mistakes, and there are abuses. sometimes these abuses are authorized by the state. sometimes the police become an instrument in the hands of the authorities to limit civil liberties and freedoms. such cases occur in many european countries, but surprisingly, they are not charged with breaking the rule of law. and that's when we have a real problem with her. in france, for example, 26 people were killed in police brutality in 2019, including 11 people during the yellow vest protests, and 2,000 people were injured. in addition, according to media reports, there have been 95 attacks on journalists by french police. recently, the european court of human rights ruled against spain in a case involving the use of excessive force by police officers who beat up a legal protest. tragedy has also struck in belgium. two years ago, a slovak citizen, józef chovanec, was detained at charleroi airport and beaten to death by five police officers. one of the officers was doing a nazi gesture and pretending to be hitler. so far, no investigation has been conducted in this scandalous case. i therefore ask whether we will see a debate in the ep on the breach of the rule of law in these countries.
in writing. on 7 august, the european public witnessed the actions of the polish police, which raise serious doubts about the respect for human rights and the proportionality of the measures used. as we have seen, a spontaneous gathering of activists defending another activist, margot, from a controversial arrest, was broken up. as demonstrators, the ombudsman and polish parliamentarians point out, the actions of the police and the way they are conducted raise doubts. in their opinion, the police used coercive measures that were not appropriate for the situation, both against those who participated in the meeting and against outsiders, sometimes randomly detained, and the detainees did not have legal access to a lawyer. media also reported on the lack of safe conditions for detainees and possible sexual harassment of detainees in police stations. is the police action against lgbt+ people in 2020 the result of the hate politics of the law and justice government and other right-wing parties that feel impunity in the face of the indifference of the eu institutions, or is it already a systemic problem? can citizens, and in particular the lgbt+ community, feel safe in their own country? are these all standards that are in line with eu values? how much longer must it be before the ec stops turning a blind eye and shirking its responsibility to tackle the problem of police brutality?
mr. chairman, please! the recent european council summit, with the absence of some of the leaders of the member states, shows how close the european community is to the problems it is facing today as a result of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. and while it is impossible not to agree with the summit's conclusions on, for example, coordinating the measures taken by the member states in response to the covid-19 pandemic, it is already with the conclusions on climate change that it seems that the european commission's persistence in its aberrant, in my opinion, efforts to raise the 2030 reduction target to at least 55% is a complete disconnect of commission officials from the reality of today's global economy. no one in china, the u.s., argentina, brazil, india is paying attention to climate change as their industries and economies struggle with the effects of covid-19. therefore, in my view, it will not be possible to take a decision to raise the 2030 reduction target if this decision is not accompanied by the simultaneous definition by the european council of the key guidelines for the legal framework and mechanisms that will allow this... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! the current epidemiological situation is unprecedented and raises very serious concerns. but our efforts to fight the virus are not going to stop, and we must act responsibly and in solidarity. in the current high increase in the number of cases, new sets of updated safety recommendations and procedures for coordinated action for the member states of the european union should be developed. in this case, i am thinking particularly of the extent to which the council conclusions took into account the september opinion of the european commission's health safety committee and its recommendations on a strategy outlining a new approach to testing to achieve specific targets for the fight against the virus. in the context of the spread of misinformation, i would like to ask whether there is a need to consider specific plans to counter the spread of misinformation about the coronavirus and the false theories that have arisen that make it difficult to implement security measures and combat the virus. does the european commission, together with the council, see the basis for creating an appropriate platform that would effectively counter... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! the report highlights the key role of economic, social and health policy coordination, in which the european social pillar and fiscal space policy play a major role. in times of crisis, accurate diagnosis is more important than ever. it also points to the social risks associated with the pandemic crisis, such as the increase in unemployment, including youth unemployment, the increase in child poverty, the deterioration of the situation of the disabled and the elderly, the crisis in care services, limited access to health services. however, i would like to draw attention to the following problematic points. first, the evaluation of the rule of law and the efficiency of the judiciary is taken into account in the european semester. secondly, the importance attached to the permanent union scheme for the reinsurance of unemployment benefits. thirdly, the call for a european health union. fourth call for proposals for a european minimum wage framework. these are the issues that fundamentally divide us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what's left to happen? health crisis, economic crisis, social crisis, the likes of which have not been seen in the last ten years. the crisis is increasingly dividing our society, and we are still unable to do what the citizens are asking us to do. two thirds say the eu needs more skills to deal with crises such as the coronavirus pandemic. 56% think that the eu should have more financial resources to deal with the impact of the crisis. we still do not have the political majorities among the heads of state or government to develop the european union as a community of economic, social, educational, research and health union. the two reports are clear: yes, we need a political strategy to bring our key instruments - the european green deal, the european pillar of social rights, the european semester - together in one powerful instrument. it is shocking that six out of ten eu country-specific measures to the member states are not implemented by them, leaving 45 billion euros per year on the table, which we urgently need for investment. ladies and gentlemen, let's flip the switch. let us work together to advance the next project for people - economic, social and health union - in the interests of our common future.
member of the commission. – madam president, the debate this morning reflects the deep crisis we’re in and the complexity of the relationship between the health dimension, the economic dimension, the social dimension and the environmental dimension. indeed we need to address all these challenges knowing that in the coming weeks and months, we will have to push on facing an emergency and promoting recovery. there will not be a particular moment when the emergency finishes and recovery begins. they will go hand in hand for some time. yes, we need common rules – of course we need fiscal common rules – and i understand many interventions were on the semester and on our common rules. next year we will return to the discussion on the review of our fiscal rules which, as you know, was put on hold. it began in february but then the covid-19 crisis hit and the discussion on the review of the rules was put on hold, but i’m sure that next year we will address it with a little more certainty, also from the economic perspective at that time. meanwhile, i repeat that the general escape clause will remain, as should the supportive fiscal stance. it is important, i think, that in view of our future discussion, we now concentrate our efforts primarily on implementing what we have already decided, and i’m confident that the commission and parliament will work hand in hand in the coming weeks in taking the necessary legislative steps to have these instruments in place. finally, i think that the entire debate shows that it is urgent that we move on with an action plan on the european pillar of social rights. the public consultation, as you know, is ongoing. it will last until the end of november and at the beginning of next year we will present our proposal as the commission and the portuguese presidency will then convene a social summit. i think that the interest on the social dimension demonstrated by this debate is very important for the commission.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to make two comments, both of which were made by mr ferber. he said that the epp had saved us from debt orgies, he said that in the press, and saved us from a new debt trap. i think that's very supportive. the only criticism is that there is no point in it, because no one in the working group has asked for it to be done, because that would be nonsense. we have simply said that there are new realities, namely that the eu has become self-indebted, that the debts of the member states are rising, and that we have new requirements that we cannot ignore. this will require us to change our debt rules too, and i am curious to see how the epp will argue that we want to maintain a 60% debt target. i look forward to this debate. by the way, many members of the epp have already recognized that it is different. the first of these is chancellor merkel of germany, who rejected european debt at the beginning of the year but has now endorsed it and even proposed it, because she has understood that the world has changed. the second thing is that there is a strange contrast between economic policy here and social and environmental policy on the other side. at the same time, however, all of them are calling for sustainable growth. what is sustainable growth? sustainable growth is socially and environmentally sustainable. how can we achieve this if economic policy does not take account of what is socially acceptable and what is necessary in environmental policy? this is where contradictions are built up that are absurd. you can either understand that because you haven't understood it yet, or because you don't really care about the sustainability of growth. this is extremely difficult from the point of view of competition policy, because in the future companies will only be competitive if they are sustainable, otherwise there will be no competitiveness. i would therefore like to conclude by asking the members of the epp not to dig into the ideological trenches of the past but to come out. you can take the first steps towards this today by supporting many of the motions put forward by renew, the greens and the s&d. i would be very pleased to hear that and it would be a real advance for our debate.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 21 october 2020. i adjourn the meeting until 1:30 p.m. and the first item on the agenda will be the announcement of the results of the first part of today's vote. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. – as has been proven up until now, throughout this mandate one of the topics that really splits this house are issues connected to macroeconomic and budgetary policies. nevertheless, under the guidance of joachim schuster, we are debating a report that is balanced, emphasises the most important needs connected to further socio—economic support throughout the pandemic and puts pressure on deepening the economic and monetary union. that being said, most of us would want to have a certain reform of the stability and growth pact. we might differ in what is to be changed but, i presume, the majority of us wants and needs a change, as not everything is perfect. with the covid—19 pandemic demolishing our economies, undermining our way of life hitherto and threatening the life and health of us and our loved ones, it is not the time for drama. we need to support this report despite some minor differences amongst the political groups. only then we can be perceived by the commission and council as reliable partners in reforming the economic and social frameworks that have an everyday influence on us all. we cannot fail when it comes to this.
in writing. the situation around the world in 2020 is a surprise to everyone. we must address the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on every aspect of our lives, including social strategies for employment. this area has always required stability, calm and far-sighted planning to be able to invest in human capital and professional activation of all social groups, from young workers to people of pre-retirement age. a sense of security, social and health protection is essential for employment growth. our economic and social systems now face an unprecedented challenge to strike a balance between economic stability and liquidity and to ensure security against both the pandemic and its effects. this is necessary in each member state and throughout the community, and especially in the euro area. the emphasis on the role of the family in this report is encouraging, although there is a desire and pressure to define the term 'family' as a household and partnership. i am pleased to note that the ecr group, through compromise amendments, is calling for children to have access to the five key social rights: access to free health care and education, decent housing and adequate food. it is also concerned about the emphasis on controversial issues, such as the continued inclusion of the evaluation of the rule of law and the efficiency of the judiciary in the european semester.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on union measures to mitigate the social and economic impact of the covid-19 crisis (2020/2792 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that no debate at this part-session will include a procedure for referrals from the chamber and no blue papers or requests for compliance with the rules of procedure will be accepted. the possibility of remote intervention from parliament's contact offices in the member states is provided for.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. first, solidarity, second, solidarity and third, and i repeat, solidarity. this is a word that should be reflected in all our actions and projects today, in the ambitious goals we have set ourselves, both to protect the health of europeans and to safeguard jobs and the economy. these measures, which have already been taken, should be assessed positively. among others, the european instrument for reconstruction is a good tool to support europeans in this difficult time. but we should continue to work on preparing and implementing projects and plans that take account of the solidarity and justice i have already mentioned. the measures taken must take account of the problems of individual countries. and so, for example, the co2 reduction target that is being pushed right now as part of the climate transition, the reduction of co2 by 2030 to 60%, will hit my country's economy, among others. so it is worth considering whether we should not work at this moment, develop such forms of support and prepare such projects that will support all of us, all of europe, in solidarity in coping with this very difficult moment for us.
madam president! in this difficult time of the pandemic, we must stand together and support all those who need it most. i therefore support the efforts to make cohesion policy more flexible, namely the crii and crii+ initiatives, which have so far mobilised eur 13 billion for investments to counter the effects of the coronavirus pandemic by simplifying the steps involved in implementing the programme. this is an unprecedented action given the situation caused by the covid-19 epidemic, but we need more balanced changes, such as a swift amendment of the regulation on the common rules for the european fund for aid to the most deprived. and let's all take this one simple step to protect those who are risking their lives to fight this virus. therefore, i call for responsibility, respect for the principle of 'distancing, disinfecting, masks' and adapting the intensity of contacts to the epidemiological situation. let's not make it harder for the doctors, nurses and paramedics who are dealing with this virus every day.
i'm closing the debate. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs delara burkhardt on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on deforestation (2020/2006 ((inl)) (a9-0179/2020). i would like to inform you that no debate at this part-session will include a procedure for referrals from the chamber and no blue papers or requests for compliance with the rules of procedure will be accepted. the possibility of remote intervention from parliament's contact offices in the member states is provided for.
member of the commission. – mr president, deforestation is a threat to the biosphere and the well—being of all citizens on earth. today’s debate has shown that we very largely agree on this and share those huge concerns. it is also a complex problem that requires concerted action among different players to be addressed. let me reply to some remarks and issues you have raised today. on the need for an impact assessment and the need to have businesses on board, i absolutely agree. i can only confirm once more that we are assessing all possible impacts and that we, of course, have to consider also the costs and administrative burden, especially on smes, and that we are carefully looking at the scope as well. all these elements are currently being carefully assessed in the context of the ongoing impact assessment. on the need to protect forests also within the eu, i can only strongly reassure you that tackling global deforestation does not mean we stop looking at our domestic forests. quite the contrary. this commission, and i personally, are truly committed to fighting the worrying phenomenon of illegal logging. we have launched infringement procedures and are determined to find this till the end. also, forests play a central role in our biodiversity strategy for 2030. they are a key focus of our work and, as you know, with commissioner wojciechowski i am preparing a forest strategy which updates the previous one and will take into account the recent resolution adopted by this parliament. on social aspects and the impact of deforestation on indigenous peoples, yes, the environmental dimension of global deforestation is closely interconnected with fundamental socio—economic factors – with poverty, corruption, human rights abuses and stability. this is why our initiative is so important, and this is why the fight against deforestation has to be fought together with indigenous people and local communities. they have to be part of the solution. we are not playing delaying tactics, quite the contrary. the commission is determined to act. we are putting to use our previous policy experience, we are leading exchanges among stakeholders and we are trying to design smart legislation that can ensure meaningful action on the ground. we need to join forces. i would like to thank you once again for your support and your contributions in today’s debate, but also for the legislative initiative resolution that you will adopt tomorrow. we look forward to taking it into account and to continue our close cooperation with this house over the next crucial months.
in writing. the importance of protecting european and global forests is undeniable. however, this report is not fit for purpose, goes beyond the eu legal framework and disproportionately endangers the functioning of european smes. without an impact assessment, the proposal would list the products most often associated by green ngos with deforestation and the degradation of natural ecosystems. the left would also leave open the possibility of extending the scope of the regulation. without a european certification system, the process would be completely opaque and disproportionate. the arbitrary nature of the report is also problematic. the rapporteur would extend the proposal to all economic operators and the entire value chain. this would have unforeseeable consequences and would impose an administrative burden on smes. in addition, the document thus touches on a number of areas of member states' competence, which is also unacceptable. the protection of forests should not be promoted by listing and quotas at either european or global level. we need positive incentives and international cooperation. in doing so, it is also appropriate to take into account the best practices of the member states. one such example is hungary, which has committed to increasing its forest cover by a third to 27% by 2030.
in writing. – global preservation of forests and preventing their degradation are some of the biggest sustainability challenges of our times, without which the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the paris agreement and the green deal cannot be achieved. i welcome the creation of a forest observatory to collect data and information on deforestation in europe as well as globally. we have to call for this observatory to establish a mechanism to protect forest defenders. i fully support the creating of the early-warning alert mechanisms in order to notify public authorities, companies, including third-party schemes, and consumers of commodities originating in areas of eco-system conversion risk concerning loss and deterioration of forest and savannah and areas where human rights have been violated, and to assist in tackling these issues by intensifying dialogue and data sharing with respective third countries. this mechanism is important to preserve the forestry sector which employs at least 500 000 people directly in the union, and 13 million people worldwide, especially in rural areas. it encourages the commission to strengthen the eu action plan on flegt, with a focus on voluntary partnership agreements, and incorporate it into the new european forest strategy to encourage third countries to abandon deforestation policies.
i now open the third vote of the day. we shall vote on the items on the agenda and the vote will be taken at 8.15 p.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous votes and all votes are cast by roll-call. so i declare the third vote to be valid. you can vote until 9:15.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not good morning, colleagues. mr president, you have put it so beautifully that i could almost say that i agree with what you have said, but i would like to make it official again: i ask, on the basis of rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, that the following report be referred back to the committee on agriculture for the opening of interinstitutional negotiations. the report 'common agricultural policy: support for the strategic plans to be drawn up by the member states and financed by the eagf and the eafrd' is the report of peter jahr a80200/2019. i would be very grateful if you could ensure that parliament takes a decision on the abovementioned referral after the adoption of the legislative acts concerned.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to request, on the basis of rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, the referral back to the committee on agriculture of the following report for the opening of interinstitutional negotiations: common agricultural policy: financing, administration and monitoring , ulrike müller report a8-0199/2019, and i would be very grateful if you could ensure that parliament takes the decisions on the referral back to the committee after the adoption of the relevant legislative acts.
chairman of the agri committee. the commission is not i ask, on the basis of rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, for the following report to be referred back to the committee on agriculture for the opening of interinstitutional negotiations: 'common agricultural policy: amendments to the cmo regulation and other regulations', report by eric andrieu, a8-0198/2019. i would also be grateful if you could ensure that parliament could take a decision on the abovementioned referral to committee after the adoption of the legislative acts in question.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’m very pleased to be presenting today, with my dear colleague hannah neumann, the first ever european parliament report outlining all the political, institutional and funding aspects needed for the achievement of gender equality in eu foreign and security policy. in light of the current global challenges, like the climate emergency and growing trends towards authoritarianism, where women and girls are the most impacted, the need for a gender-based eu foreign and security policy becomes more urgent than ever. following the example of a number of countries, we want the eu and its institutions to follow a similar path. the eu has taken already some important steps in this direction, like the gender action plans i and ii or the women, peace and security agenda. however their implementation still displays a number of shortcomings. in the report we present several recommendations to be considered in the upcoming new gender action plan 2021-25 that will be published shortly. starting with political representation and participation in decision-making processes, we ask for a gender quota of 50% at all levels of the commission and eeas management by 2024, including heads of delegation and heads of csdp missions. mandatory training courses on gender equality, with special attention to middle and upper managers of the eeas and heads of csdp missions and operations, should also be introduced. more resources need to be assigned to the eeas principal advisor on gender to continue and reinforce her work. therefore, we call on the high representative to continue his efforts in this area by appointing a full-time gender adviser in each eeas directorate and to establish gender focal points in all eu delegations. we also need to increase the efficient use of existing and future eu resources through gender responsive budgeting. as we negotiate at the moment the proposed neighbourhood development and international cooperation instrument we should make gender mainstreaming and targeted actions clear objectives under that regulation and ensure that partners can count on sufficient political and financial support to implement it. at the same time the eu needs to dedicate efforts to monitor the backlash against gender equality and lgbtiq+ rights in the world, promote the human rights of women and protect women human rights defenders. in particular, sexual and reproductive health and rights are being threatened inside the eu but also outside; particularly, in crisis zones, women and girls are exposed to sexual violence, sexually transmitted diseases, sexual exploitation and rape as a weapon of war. therefore, we call on the eu and its member states to take steps to protect women and their sexual rights in their humanitarian aid response, as well as access to justice. the year 2020 marks the anniversary of several key events: the 20th anniversary of the un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, the 14th anniversary of the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, and the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration on women’s rights. the eu’s role has been crucial in advancing on all these milestones, but it needs to stand out now in its commitment to make gender equality a priority in its foreign and security policy. i hope this report will contribute to achieving this goal and i would like to thank all the colleagues, also some of them present here in the room, for their support and their cooperation in achieving that draft report.
member of the commission. – mr president, the debate on the participation and role of women in foreign and security policy is relevant at any moment and one i’m very attached to. i fully agree with your report on the necessity to accelerate our ongoing work on gender equality and women’s rights. first, the covid-19 context – now more than ever – requires a response at the global scale which fully integrates a gender perspective in all our analyses and responses to the pandemic and in the recovery phase. the eu has been frontloading actions to support women and girls in the crisis, notably through the eu-un spotlight initiative. under this initiative, we were able to adopt priority actions on the elimination of all forms of gender-based violence as urgent needs. we prioritised helplines and shelters for victims of domestic violence and frontline support for women’s grass roots organisations. we must transform this into an opportunity to review and accelerate our engagement to promote gender equality within the eu and around the world. second, i welcome your call for robust implementation of the eu action plan on women, peace and security. the eu is at the forefront of the implementation of the un security council resolution 1325. allow me to highlight the importance of holding this discussion today a few days before the 20th anniversary of the adoption of this milestone transformative document. in this context, i fully – i fully – share your view on the importance of the gender advisers and we have already paved new ground through the establishment of posts for gender advisers and the creation of the gender focal points networks in military and civilian operations and missions of our common security and defence policy. finally, i am very glad to confirm that i will present with the high representative in november a new eu gender action plan (gap) iii. it will enable us to reaffirm gender equality and women’s and girls’ empowerment as a core priority of all eu external action. gap iii takes the thread from the recent eu gender equality strategy and is the first such eu policy framework on gender equality externally. it draws from the lessons learned from the covid-19 pandemic, with a focus on building back better from the crisis by addressing structural inequalities. it will integrate the women, peace and security agenda, as called for in your report. it will also expand action in key areas of engagement, addressing new challenges and opportunities in line with the commission’s political priorities, such as ensuring a fair and inclusive green transition and managing the digital transformation. last, but not least, it will very much – very much – draw on your recommendations regarding the need for the eu and its staff to set the example on gender equality and to promote gender-responsive leadership in achieving this. mr president, the eu must continue to reaffirm that women’s rights are human rights. the ambition is there for a gender-sensitive and responsive geopolitical commission and i thank this house for its support. i’m looking forward to our discussion. (applause)
we often say that the gender issue must be central to all european policies, the commission and its president have declared it to be one of the most important challenges, and we in parliament, through the gender mainstreaming network, have declared our readiness to pursue this path and to ask for the necessary resources to achieve this objective. by voting in favour of this report we can finally take a concrete step towards a policy which is sensitive to the needs, but above all to the resources that women can bring to the table. women are an indispensable asset for the growth and development of our society. our action must be a tool to guarantee human rights, including the rights of women and girls, who are the first to be sacrificed. access to sexual and reproductive health services is a precondition for gender equality and therefore for progress and well-being. and climate change is often the cause of the erosion of these rights. gender stereotypes persist that push women to migrate at the risk of violence, exploitation and human trafficking. how can we talk about environmental foreign policy, about migration, without taking gender equality into account? i thank the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to the drafting of a progressive text, which finally looks at women as agents of change and not as victims, which looks at the question of foreign policy without limiting itself to a flat description of the status quo, but which puts people of all genders, backgrounds and ages at the centre.
mr president, since this great report stresses that eu foreign and security policy is dominated by men, it’s crucial to engage them – us – in gender equality activities. boys and men have a special role to play in promoting the empowerment of girls and women. why? because we men still – unfairly, of course – keep the power and so hold the key to solving the problem. achieving gender equality is not possible without the inclusion and active involvement of men and boys in the process of making progress on gender equality. men and boys must be invited to participate and contribute actively in promoting health and gender norms. some might ask ‘why?’ because besides bringing equality, it improves the health of families and economic well-being. let me stress the words my colleague madeleine albright just said (and i paraphrase): there is a special place in hell for men who don’t help women.
mr. chairman, please! the stated aim of this report is to increase the participation of women in european foreign policy, which, i would remind you, is and should be a competence of the member states. analysis of the report's contents reveals that it is, in fact, an expression of an ideology of perpetual division of people, which dictates that they be ranked according to gender, race, and god knows what else. this is a positive discrimination, invented for the needs of left-wing feminism, which favors one sex over the other. however, the very declaration that gender plays a role is discrimination in its purest form. and it's just important that all people have the same opportunity. competent people should be in the right place because of their predispositions. it should be noted that favouring a particular group not only lowers motivation, but also diminishes its value and is contrary to the basic sense of equality and justice. i think that this pretended concern for women is to cover up the fact that all this push for equality is just a power game that the left is playing on the principle of 'work and rule'.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there can be no place in europe for criminals, terrorists or dictators, and passports, citizenship and visas cannot be commodities. and that, unfortunately, it is a huge revenue stream for several countries in the european union today, is best shown by the numbers. for cyprus, it is as much as 5% of gdp. in 2017 alone, the country's budget receipts amounted to over eur 1 billion. in spain, it was €976 million, in greece, €250 million, in malta and portugal, around €700 million. this procedure poses a serious threat to the security of our countries and our citizens. there are reports, for example from al jazeera, describing how easily and smoothly criminals, including those linked to the islamic state, are able to enter member states in this way. the fact that a gun dealer, a drug dealer, a human trafficker, an islamic terrorist group, puts out 500,000 euros for a property in cyprus, or 350,000 euros in malta, is really not a big deal. and those amounts in the case of those countries were spent to acquire citizenship allowing - i stress - free movement throughout the union. it is therefore of the utmost importance that applicants are screened as closely as possible for security reasons, with particular regard to their criminal record.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the state of the energy union (2020/2825 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that there will be no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates in this part-session and no blue card questions and observations on the application of the rules of procedure will be accepted. it also provides for possible remote assistance from parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am honoured to present to you today the state of the energy union report. every year, it’s an opportunity to take stock of our energy policy and assess whether we are on track with implementing the energy union. the 2020 report is the first one since we launched our new sustainability and growth strategy, the european green deal. a well-functioning energy union is the necessary basis to deliver our climate commitment by 2050. together with this report, i presented three key initiatives on 14 october: the renovation wave, the methane strategy and the commission recommendations on energy poverty. the initiatives of the 14 october energy package are important stepping stones to reach our 2030 climate target plan. they will make sure that we seize the significant decarbonisation potential of buildings and address energy poverty in order not to leave anybody behind in the clean energy transition. national energy and climate plans (necps) will also remain an important tool in achieving the minimum 55% reduction in greenhouse gases. together with the state of the energy union, we also published a detailed assessment of the plans of each member state. the final necps are complete, robust and ambitious. our analysis shows that each member state still has some work to do, especially on energy efficiency. but overall we are heading in the right direction and the plans demonstrate that europe can meet ambitious climate targets. the commission will ensure a clear and inclusive follow—up of those plans, including on the progress of implementation and the need to revise the level of ambition of necps to reflect a higher carbon emission reduction target for 2030. let me now go back to the state of the energy union report. this report provides an overview of the progress of the energy union across all its dimensions. i would like to focus on three areas today. first, we know that delivering the higher climate ambition in the energy sector is a genuine investment challenge. the state of the energy union report maps out the funding opportunities offered by the recovery and resilience facility and other eu instruments. in particular, the annual sustainable growth strategy identified three energy-related flagships – clean energy technologies, renovation and sustainable transport – where member states can focus their national renovation plans. this shows that next generation eu offers an unprecedented opportunity to mobilise resources to promote the clean and digital transformation of our economies, and we should use it. the report, however, shows that national budgets devote a declining share to clean energy research and innovation. when we measure the volumes of research funding as a share of gdp, europe has one of the lowest rates among the major global players. private sector investment in energy union r&t priorities is also slowing down and i’m very concerned by this trend. second, the report shows that the volume of energy subsidies, in particular for fossil fuels, is still considerable. fossil fuel subsidies amounted to eur 50 billion in the eu in 2018. this is one third of all our energy subsidies. the european green deal is clear: fossil fuel subsidies have to end. they remain a major impediment to a cost-efficient energy and climate transition, but also to a functioning internal market. therefore, the commission will reinforce its cooperation with member states to phase out fossil fuel subsidies and reduce fossil fuel consumption. energy subsidies should be targeted to boost the uptake of new energy technologies, to promote sustainable patterns of energy consumption, and to lower energy bills. third, this year’s state of the energy union included for the first time a report on the competitiveness of the clean energy industry in europe. the findings are quite significant. the growth of the clean energy technology sector has significantly outpaced that of the conventional energy sector. clean energy technologies have created more jobs and added more to gross domestic product and labour productivity. this has been especially obvious in energy efficiency, where the number of jobs went up 17.4% between 2000 and 2017. the competitiveness report also shows that eu industry holds a strong global position in some of the key technologies, namely offshore solar energy storage, batteries and hydrogen technologies, which have a major scaling-up potential over the coming years. in the coming months, we will take these elements forward and we will focus in our discussions with all relevant stakeholders on a value-chain-based approach to support our industries and innovators in the eu to maintain or achieve global success. i will stop here and now i will take your questions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i thank the commissioner for this report. this report says, and it's nice, that we've already exceeded the 2020 co2 targets. it's also great that we're decoupling economic growth from energy consumption. thank you for that positive outlook, too. we're in the middle of the energy revolution. we can't make any mistakes now, especially in the corona crisis. i would therefore like to ask the commission a question. when we discussed the same report last year, it said, and i quote, "the clean energy package forms a credible path to meeting its paris agreement commitments", end of quote. why was 40% co2 reduction enough for paris 12 months ago, and even the targets for trucks and cars were positively highlighted 12 months ago, i quote, as "ambitious policies on climate mobility"? in the 2020 report, i do not find this answer only the indication that it must now be at least 55%. parliament wants 60%. i'm all for stronger standards, but it's like medicine: too much doesn't necessarily help, and too much hurts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of aiming higher and higher, we must deliberate carefully about the way forward. for example, the report says that covid-19 is exacerbating the problem of energy poverty. now comes the renovation base. what can we offer tenants? the pandemic and a higher carbon price? the report says new energy infrastructure is the key to a successful energy transition, but the commission is announcing new rights of action for ngos and environmental groups. we have to decide . do we want a rapid energy transition with modern infrastructure, with a big impact, positive for biodiversity, or do we want to save a bat family because an ngo lawsuit requires it? we don't need new lawsuits. we need faster, unbureaucratic approval processes, and we need to make the covid funds recovery fund more binding on the energy transition. we're on the right track, but don't over-screw the climate commitment, or it'll break.
for the renew group. mr president thank you to the commissioner for a fine report which shows that the eu must lead the way in the green transition and that we must do something now and that it is urgent. we have to deliver. we need more renewable energy across borders. a genuine internal energy market will make it easier and cheaper to integrate renewable energy, for example from offshore wind farms in the north sea and into european mains, thus displacing fossil fuels from our energy supply. that is why the off-shore strategy is so important, and we are looking forward to it with great anticipation, commissioner. the investments from the entire reconstruction package must be green. we need to build a competitive green renewable energy industry in europe as a whole and ensure that our green businesses are world-class and that they remain world-class. we need to create a more integrated and efficient energy system so that citizens can have access to green and cheap energy. the renovation wave is a really good initiative that creates jobs and combats climate change at the same time, but it has to be ambitious so that we can renovate two to three times as many buildings as we can do today. and then we will have to revise some of the directives already on the table on renewable energy, energy efficiency, buildings and the role of buildings. and those directives must have higher and more ambitious objectives and binding targets for the member states. according to the international energy agency, up to half of global green investment should be directed towards energy efficiency. at the same time, commissioner, we must ensure that the member states deliver. they're not doing that right now. i would urge the commissioner to take a more serious approach to the member states. if the commission does not do so next year, we are failing the green transition. we don't owe it to the voters to do that. it's urgent, so let's get to work!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i also wanted to ask about public support for energy in general. well, actually, as this report shows, this public aid has been increasing over the last decade. the commission has already indicated that it intends to eliminate this aid. we know that the growth in different sectors has been very different, for example, transport received 20% more subsidies in 2018 than three years earlier. the subsidies vary from country to country. if i read the chart correctly, germany spent almost 45 billion euros of public money on energy subsidies in 2018, of which 12 billion euros on fossil fuels, which contributed 1.2% of gdp. france, italy, belgium also subsidise fossil fuels much more in absolute terms than, for example, poland, which is often portrayed as a country that is holding back the energy transition. in poland, €2 billion and 0.2% of gdp is spent on fossil fuels. i would therefore like to ask what the commission intends to do to reduce subsidies in the near future. how does it intend to do this in relation to the various sectors? and how do these growing and varying subsidies, depending on the economic potential of the countries, relate to the green deal and the principles of a just transition?
for the gue/ngl group thank you for your presentation, commissioner. it is obvious that the energy transition is key to combating climate change and creating jobs, but i would like to ask you today about energy poverty and the refurbishment of buildings. the european commission's strategy for energy poverty which has just been presented is a strategy which greatly improves our approach to this issue. however, i think it lacks some important dimensions. we know that in the poorest households in the european union, the energy bill represents almost 10% of their monthly income. we also know from the various figures that exist that we are talking about tens of millions of citizens in the european union who live in energy poverty - there are reports that point to more than 50 million - and we know that those who live in energy poverty are mainly single-parent families, are families with many children or are elderly people who are usually isolated. and in this sense, even if member states have to have specific measures to combat energy poverty, they are translated either into social tariffs or into the definition of critical periods where people are exempt from paying. my question is very simple: how can the european union define what is a critical period for those living in poverty or on the brink of poverty? we are talking about 100 million, over 100 million people in the european union living in poverty, one in six people. why does the european union not clearly define what measures are needed to prevent us from being energy poor? we are entering winter, which is a critical period, but for those who are poor the whole year is a critical period, and not just winter.
mr president, the climate neutrality target for 2050 requires systemic change and involves citizens. the eu has taken steps in the right direction and decoupled economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. in 30 years, the eu cut emissions by 25%, while the economy grew by 62%. national energy and climate plans show that most member states have cut emissions according to the current reduction targets, but europe lags behind in the energy efficiency target. the renovation rates proposal could be one solution. we have to make it win-win-win: cut emissions, create local jobs, and make healthier homes and buildings. renovation rates remain too low and renovations should be placed at the core of a sustainable recovery. another big question for the energy transition is how to get private investment to support the green transition. climate neutrality by 2050 needs investments now. the policy measures need to support predictability and also support demand for clean energy, green products and investments.
mr president, in the biggest energy transition in our history the biggest problem is not the technology to make it happen nor is it the political will to cut greenhouse gases. no, our biggest problem is that the perfect is becoming the enemy of the good. and just look at the political debates: no nuclear energy please, no carbon capture that entails fossil fuels, no biomass, no gas in a transition, no windmills in my backyard and no solar panels on agricultural grounds please. well, altogether that is not a sustainable posture. how can we possibly be serious in reaching our climate goals without technologies like carbon capture, biomass or nuclear? but luckily there’s one technology we all agree on that has the potential to decarbonise at least our heavy industries and transport: hydrogen. it might not be a silver bullet but we all agree this energy carrier has enormous potential and our aim is clear: to create a new, clean produced, green hydrogen market and a long—term certainty for all parties involved, and that requires massive investments; in infrastructure, in the scale up of electrolysers, but also in carbon capture utilisation and storage, because we need to be realistic. if we want to pave the way for clean hydrogen we will initially need to invest in transitional technologies and these might not be perfect but they are good. so, yes, in the beginning of this huge transition we will still need fossil fuels and, therefore, eu policies should support carbon capture, enable government support schemes for blue hydrogen, and i expect the commission to move forward in this direction in its energy summer package. we have 30 years to reshape our entire energy system and we can do it, and we will fail if we demand to be perfect, but we will definitely succeed by doing it as good as we can.
mr president, just some days ago, a study was released signalling that in barcelona, the city from where i’m speaking today, air pollution still causes a thousand deaths a year, and this is largely due to the use of fossil fuels. however, despite the broad consensus on the need to accelerate the clean energy transition and step up our efforts concerning emissions reduction, fossil fuel subsidies actually continue to increase. this is one of the findings of the state of the energy union report. it is very urgent that we put forward a strategy towards subsidies that is coherent with the green deal. the eu should stop subsidising fossil fuels – and should urge member states to do the same – and should instead redirect public money to finance the green energy transition. this is all the more urgent given that, as the report points out and the commissioner said, funding of green energy research and investment is slowing. this comes on top of the huge cuts that the council is proposing to the research programme horizon europe, which, of course, we are opposing head-on.
mr. chairman, please! a month ago, france had to restart its coal-fired power plants because the old fessenheim nuclear plant was shut down and wind farms were unable to produce enough power. the germans also turned to traditional energy and started a coal-fired power plant in datteln. as you can see, energy stability and security cannot be achieved without fossil fuels. this also applies to natural gas, which should be recognised by the european union as an important transitional raw material in the energy transition process. unfortunately, the environmental radicalism of eu legislation is depriving member states of energy independence. i therefore appeal to you for more political realism. by imposing unattainable standards that impose absurd costs that exacerbate energy poverty, we are unfortunately putting people in europe in a very bad situation. and all of this is compounded by the cost of the pandemic. you need to be smart. look at it from a human perspective, not just from a business or an eco-ideology perspective.
thank you for your time, mr. president. the european energy union was established five years ago, and it is therefore timely to discuss the initiative in three dimensions: achievements, lessons learned and prospects. the results show that the energy union is a success story. most member states have been able to reduce their emissions while growing their economies by increasing the share of renewable energy in their energy mix. the successful achievement of network development objectives and the creation of an integrated energy market means that the european energy network is now much better equipped to deal with various shocks than in the past. among the lessons, the conditions for success are worth highlighting. with a well-founded objective, a commission that is respectful and consensus-driven, such results can be achieved. for the latter, i have to thank commissioner cañete. the prospects for the energy union are not so promising. the left has turned energy policy into a religious debate. the left-wing majority in the european parliament, by voting for an ideologically based climate regulation, would lead the union towards a future that could lead to economic stagnation, the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs and an explosion in recessionary costs. it's a risky business. the people of europe deserve better climate and energy policies.
mr. chairman, please! we have already overcome many nationalisms in the european union - not all, but many. one of the ones we still have to deal with is energy nationalism. the vast majority of member states look at energy security through the lens of their borders, their economic and financial interests. the union is a community of values, a community of free movement of people, goods, services and capital. it is a shared responsibility for the citizens of the union, for their energy security. it's a shared commitment to tackle energy poverty. the energy union report is a perfect example of how much we need solidarity in this area. we have elements of it, like the just transformation fund, but we need more. we need a real internal energy market. we don't need energy solidarity projects like nord stream 2. and then there's the decarbonization. and here we have to define exactly what we want to get to. and i'm not talking about percentages or reductions or statistics. i am talking about specific people who, losing their jobs in the mining industry, as i did in silesia, have to get them in another industry. let's remember, the man is the man. it's the human being who has to be at the center of the energy transition.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the realities of energy and climate policy are changing very rapidly. there is a growing need for enhanced regional and global cooperation in this area. in just the last five years, we have adopted the paris agreement and announced the green deal strategy, so it is only natural that we also have to proceed with the revision of the energy charter treaty. but we should do it realistically, especially in these difficult times, when we are in a crisis caused by the pandemic, when every job counts, when we need to support the economy. the requirements for modernising the treaty should therefore be realistic. we need to protect investments and make changes in line with the strategies we have developed in the past, and above all to support the economy.
mr president, the energy charter treaty (ect) has been rightly criticised. modernisation to make it compatible with the green deal is a necessity. i hope, however, that the treaty’s shortcomings do not blind us from seeing how much we need a modernised treaty to cover renewable energy investments. the commission estimation shows that for reduction of emissions by the goals we have set, the eu needs annually eur 350 billion more energy-related investments than were made in the past 10 years. it is clear also that most of this will come from private investors. if we get the true ambitious modernisation that is sought in the eu text proposal, the ect would then, in effect, become the enforcement tool for the paris agreement that we currently lack. we should recognise that in the multilateral investment treaty covering renewable energy investments, and that no other treaty exists than the ect. with the modernised treaty we could offer private investors protection and the stable investment environment that is needed to increase investments in renewables. it will not be easy to find an ambitious modernised treaty – unanimity is required among 54 parties to the agreement – but we have to push this and we have to convince our partners that all need an energy charter treaty that is in line with the green deal.
member of the commission. – mr president, once again i would like to thank you for this opportunity to debate on this important topic today. it is a sensitive one and you can trust that the commission is following it very closely. the commission will also need to address the definition of economic activity in the energy sector. in line with our mandate, the commission wants to send a strong signal. our aim is to ensure that economic activities related to the use of fossil fuels are phased out from the scope of the charter’s investment section. the transition to a climate neutral energy system requires that the use of fossil fuels should be greatly diminished and eventually phased out. this approach is at the core of the european green deal and it is the approach we are following in the modernisation process. we have made it clear and engaged in very good faith in the reform. a successful energy charter treaty negotiation outcome requires consensus. a proposal to remove the investment protection of fossil fuels from the energy charter treaty would certainly be met with fierce resistance from many of the non-eu-ect contracting parties, many of which are big fossil fuel producers. at the same time the eu has a duty to act in accordance with its long-term energy transition and climate goals which would require that the eu-ect should only cover investments needed to support transition to a climate neutral energy system. a balance needs to be struck and we believe that our approach does that. the energy charter treaty protects not only investments in fossil fuels but also investment in electricity, irrespective of the energy source generating that electricity, which means that it also protects investments in renewable energy sources. therefore, the commission believes that the ect could still play a positive role in the future by supporting the investments necessary for the energy transition in particular outside of the eu if all contracting parties accept the necessary changes to the treaty. so right now, no option is off the table. the eu should first engage in the negotiations and see if partners engage. we must be aware that withdrawal is difficult, indeed the ect has a 20-year sunset clause, therefore if the eu were to get out now, it would face the application of the unreformed ect for the next 20 years in relation to investments in existence at the time of withdrawal. so, first, we negotiate and we are ready to assess all options if negotiations do not deliver the result.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. for over two decades, the european energy charter has governed the cooperation of more than 50 countries worldwide, as well as the european union, on energy issues. this is a necessary treaty. but it is also a treaty that needs urgent renegotiation. member states and regions of the union that are currently making a heroic effort to achieve a just transition, such as my silesia, cannot be weakened by outdated, inadequate regulations. the european union is pulling out of coal and other fossil fuels. meanwhile, the european energy charter, as it stands, could protect well over €2 trillion of fossil fuel investment by 2050. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this is an unacceptable situation. urgent renegotiation of the charter is necessary.
the next item is the second part of the vote. we will vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 2.30 p.m. to 3.45 p.m. the same voting method as in previous elections was used. all votes will be cast by name. i call the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:45. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 6:15 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.31 p.m.)
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. the world and the european union are in an economic crisis. the multiannual financial framework and recovery plans can mitigate this crisis the edf knows this very well. conservatives believe that these instruments will make europe stronger. however, the citizens of the european union are surprised by the fact that the european parliament and the european commission sometimes fail to assess the real risks. the vice-president of the european parliament says that some countries should be starved and not given financial support. it's a bad language, it's not a christian language. mrs. barley, it's not national governments that take money, it's consumers, citizens of the 27 countries of the european union. we all know that the rule of law is a value of the european union, but today the real problem is the economic crisis, terrorism, insecurity. in france, a bandit kills a man, cuts off his head, in germany, a bandit drives a car into a crowd. the problem today is, of course, the fraudsters who are extorting money from the european union. they're in every country and we need to eliminate them from the public market. the multiannual financial framework and the reconstruction plan cannot be directed against christian governments, against right-wing governments. of course we are fighting the pandemic, let's fight it, let's help the companies that are doing it, let's have european solidarity, and punishing anyone in the european union can only make things worse and make the european union look ridiculous.
mr. chairman, please! the only treaty procedure concerning the rule of law is article 7. and you know it. the problem is that you could not find a majority to invoke article 7, so you invented the non-treaty procedure, breaking the law, as even your own legal opinions and the opinions of the european court of auditors have confirmed. secondly, education and culture, the redistribution of resources and the organisation of the judiciary are, according to the treaty, the exclusive competence of the member state and the poles. you are also trying to usurp this competence, which means that in fact, when you talk about the rule of law, you are breaking the rule of law yourself. and it is symbolic that the german presidency is attacking poland on the independence day of the polish state. it's a real shame, especially since the politicization of the courts is talked about in germany, which has the most politicized judicial selection process in the european union.
mr president, for forty years this european parliament has been the only directly elected institution of the architecture of the union. and in 2019 -- his last election -- for the first time in all this time, voter turnout, instead of declining, bounced back strongly, increasing, even without knowing that we were plunging into the worst crisis in history: the pandemic and its economic and social havoc. well, to all those who went to the polls with even the slightest skepticism and doubt, the message this afternoon is very clear. here is proof that the european parliament matters. with a historic achievement, it has for the first time managed to double the firepower of the multiannual financial framework, the recovery fund and all the instruments to ensure the necessary funding for education, innovation, culture. but it has also increased the council's proposal by eur 16 billion. it has achieved a binding proposal on own resources, with new tax figures to finance the europe we need, and the rule of law conditionality, which obliges member states to respect democracy, the rule of law and the separation of powers if they want to access european funds. and they can't procrastinate, because they have to make a decision. and at the same time, the beneficiaries of these decisions and of these european funds are protected. this parliament has therefore made a historic achievement in serving as the budgetary authority and as the driving force behind the democratic legitimacy of the union. the 440 million citizens of the community can feel represented in this european parliament and, above all, in the hope of the answer they need as soon as possible. i thank the negotiators who have made this possible, because this parliament has made it possible for that answer to reach you immediately, as soon as possible.
mr president, two recent events give us hope. the first of these is the european union's response to the dramatic economic and financial consequences of the current health crisis. the three institutions involved in the legislative process have just demonstrated that we can put behind us the obstacles which, in the past, made the progress we are about to approve impossible. the second factor of change is the new american administration that will be in place, with a return to correct reporting: will it change anything? as an optimist, i think it will change everything: international cooperation, multilateralism - which is badly damaged, unfortunately - and the fight against climate change are becoming real prospects again. good news for us, good news because the gravediggers of our fundamental values, the enemies of a free press, and the friends of justice at the behest of the ruling party, have just lost a great ally in the fight against european integration. the decision to introduce a fundamental values clause is timely. the recipients of european funds will now have to comply with the commitments they have themselves made. it is a good start for the new decade, a good start for the commission, which will have to apply this clause with great skill, talent and perseverance. so it is up to our institutions, and first and foremost our commission, to make this achievement last. "as long as it lasts", said napoleon's mother, and i hope this time she's right.
mr. chairman, please! almost three years ago, the article 7 procedure was initiated for the first time against poland. since then, we have had many debates on the link between the rule of law and the budget, we have adopted many resolutions, and there have been further violations in poland and hungary. the principles of judicial independence and media freedom were violated, the rights of women, lgbt+ people, civil society were attacked, and valuable natural areas were destroyed. the governments of poland and hungary will block this mechanism because breaking the rule of law is part of their political dna. it's important that we don't end up with words. the union must protect its citizens, not its governments. today in poland we celebrate the independence day. i hope that yesterday's agreement will become a symbol of the european union's fight for the independence of its citizens and their protection from governments that violate the rule of law.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my satisfaction with the agreement on the union budget, which among other things provides for an additional 15 billion euros for science, health and education. i also welcome the compromise draft regulation linking eu funds to the rule of law, which means strengthening the values on which our union is built. the conditionality mechanism is not an attack on the sovereignty of any member state. the possibility of suspending funds is only a temporary measure that can be quickly reinstated if the country concerned returns to the path of respect for the laws and principles on which the union is founded. this mechanism is not aimed at the interests of the citizens of the member states, but at the policies of governments that act against their own citizens. hence the tools that will allow, if necessary, the financing of projects by citizens, local governments, ngos directly from the european commission through the central government. i hope that in the future all governments will show responsibility, maturity and understanding for compromise. this also applies to the polish government.
in writing. the main challenge facing member states today, in the midst of a raging pandemic, rising unemployment, the collapse of many businesses, is the ability to respond effectively and quickly to the crisis, which we all see. not just economically, but socially. today europe should be strong through the strength of its community countries, not through the incomprehensible decisions taken in the recesses of european cabinets. this is a path to nowhere and undermines the already shaky public trust in the european institutions. i would like to remind you that the multiannual financial framework is a measure enshrined in the treaties, which cannot be changed by a regulation. the regulations linking the withdrawal of money to the so-called rule of law mechanism are contrary not only to the content of the treaties but also to the european council's conclusions of july this year. we cannot accept any discretionary mechanisms which are based on criteria which are primarily politically motivated. these illegal and dangerous activities can be used as a tool to blackmail and fight against democratically elected governments who want to preserve their sovereignty, to which they are entitled. we need to work out rules that are acceptable to all and that will allow us to reach an agreement. all citizens of the community are looking forward to such action.
in writing. given the level of terrorist threat in the western eu, the fight against terrorism cannot be limited to military and judicial-penal actions. information and education activities also remain important. the involvement of the private sector and ngos is essential. but even in this case, we must not forget the basic rights of citizens. we cannot allow a situation to develop in which civil liberties are compromised. under the regulation on the prevention of the dissemination of terrorist content on the internet, hosting service providers operating in the eu will be obliged to remove terrorist content. this is correct, but care should be taken not to use the logs to block or delete content that is not terrorist propaganda. the implementation of such preventive mechanisms should not restrict the activity of internet users. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the new rules on the protection of personal data. therefore, additional guarantees and safeguards are necessary to protect the right to freedom of expression. judicial review of decisions to remove content from the internet should be ensured. but first and foremost, the roots of terrorism in europe must be tackled. the faulty foreign and migration policies of the western eu countries have led to a situation where the security of our citizens and even the very existence of our civilization is at risk.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’m really grateful for the opportunity to address you even under these very difficult circumstances and i’m also happy to see that mr larrouturou is with us and still quite well and i hope it stays like this. let me first congratulate all of you on the political agreement concerning the multiannual financial framework, which we all could reach just yesterday. indeed, it required serious compromises on both sides, but it came just in time, and it shows that the union is ready to act. this unprecedented agreement is historic both in size and magnitude. at times, when the epidemiological situation is worsening, and economic forecasting is predicting challenging times for our companies, citizens and regions. this demonstrates the union’s ability to act. as you know, the mff is a pre-condition for having the annual budget and all the programmes adopted. ultimately, the envelopes for union programmes depend on the final agreed mff ceilings. the commission will therefore work tirelessly to introduce the budgetary impact of the mff agreement in the annual budget procedure as quickly as possible. we were just about to conclude our work on the amending letter but now we are happy to finalise it taking the mff agreement into account. i hope that this will enable us to swiftly come to an agreement on the 2021 budget in the conciliation. i think we can all agree that recent agreements should not directly be re-opened, especially considering the sweat and tears that went into this mff agreement. concerning the budget nomenclature, we have, at the technical level, worked proactively with the parliament and the council to find the right balance between flexibility and transparency. the amending letter will provide proposals, which should meet the main concerns. on the substance of the council and the parliament position, i would like to address one issue also raised by state secretary hagedorn last time when we met in this chamber few weeks ago. this concerns the proposal to reduce 162 posts in the commission’s establishment plan of which 140 posts relate to staff increases in the union’s decentralised agencies. while we fully share the objective to ensuring the efficiency of our administration, i simply cannot accept the rationale in offsetting increases in posts for decentralised agencies by cutting commission posts. the decentralised agencies work in areas where member states agree that resources are better pooled for activities that would otherwise have to be performed by national administrations: border control or food safety are just two examples. the commission doesn’t perform these tasks and the pooling of national activities in the decentralised agencies has no impact on the workload within the commission. therefore, i urge the council and the parliament to reconsider their position on this. let me just remind you of the next steps in the annual budgetary procedure. firstly, we will present the aforementioned amending letter by the end of this week. secondly, we will also present the executability letter in the coming days. it’s one of the commission’s inputs for the conciliation. the executability letter provides the assessment of the implementability of the amendments proposed by the parliament and the council. i am now fully confident that, after reaching the difficult and important mff compromise, we will also be able to agree on how to translate it into the 2021 budget. there’s no margin for failure in the draft budget 2021 calendar. the conciliation, which starts this coming tuesday, 17 november, is our one and only shot to find an agreement on the next annual budget. now, the negotiating teams will, with their political agreement on the mff, pave the way to an agreement on the 2021 budget as well. we have only these 21 days until december 7 to reach an agreement. so i trust we all understand the heavy responsibility that this places on everyone, because what is an mff without an annual budget? let’s make every single day count and work together proactively and constructively. this is critical if we want the union’s response to the crisis to continue at full force next year. i have to say my services and i are available at all times to help this process because, once again, we cannot lose any time and it’s our one and only last shot, if you like, and this is something which has to be fixed in due time in order to really to enable us, starting on 1 january next year to implement what is necessary in the interest of our citizens.
the committee on foreign affairs and security adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the budget for next year is very important, madam president, because it is the first budget under the new multiannual financial framework and will serve as a model for those who will follow. we need to support the neighbouring countries in the challenges they face; and it is not always the pandemic, as is the case in lebanon. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we cannot accept the european commission's proposal for general budget lines which deprive the european parliament of political control over which countries and which actions we finance. we are stopping funding for the governments of turkey, azerbaijan and belarus, because a prerequisite for receiving european funding is respect for human rights, the rule of law and international law. it is unacceptable for the union to finance those who systematically violate our principles and values. money in these countries will only go to civil society. finally, the recent events in nagorno-karabakh make it all the more timely and urgent that the council should accept our proposal.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. let me begin, madam president, by quoting two words. the first one is: 'money is not everything, but everything is nothing without money.' i don't know who wrote it, but the second quote i can attribute to woody allen, who said, "money is important, if only for financial reasons. other i think he's absolutely right, and for us, the agent is important, for financial reasons and for political reasons. we have just adopted our multiannual financial framework and i would like to congratulate all our teams, who have really done the hard work, who have managed to move the lines and deserve our respect. the next seven years at least will be marked by the fruits of their efforts. we have succeeded in making it clear to the political decision-makers that there is no question of abandoning italy, that there is no question of abandoning spain, portugal, france, the countries of the south, the countries of the east. there was a franco-german initiative - and the rapporteur referred to it a moment ago - which gave the necessary political impetus to the european parliament's initiative, which had already expressed itself earlier on a very ambitious recovery plan. the only small complaint that could perhaps be made about this stimulus plan is that it risks, with the second wave of covid, not being enough. but with the political prowess we have been able to achieve, i believe that there too we will find an answer. i hope that the needs will not be too great, but at any rate the political reflexes of the union are beginning to work. as my friend and colleague valerie hayer was saying this morning, for the first time in 50 years, we are creating new resources of our own. this is a real success and, even if this money does not go directly into the budget, it will help us to pay off the debts incurred in the following months. 2021 can be a healthy year, it will be the first year of the budget cycle, it will also be the first year that will be a kind of stress test for the new fundamental rights clause. we can't put off this stress test until 2022. no, it is now, because it is now that we must fight against violations. they have been, they are still being, and when i hear the political speeches of some member states, they are not going away, these violations, so we are going to have to be very vigilant. finally, as co-rapporteur on the ndici, i would like to say that 2021 may also be the first year in which the european parliament will be able to benefit from new policy prerogatives in programming. i believe that our parliament has a say, and should have a say, in the budgetary planning of the next cycle in the context of our external relations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, (start of speech off mic) ... in the negotiations setting up the budget for the next seven years. the outcome is particularly important as it increases horizon europe by eur 4 billion; horizon europe being key in enabling innovation horizontally in all sectors, and ultimately delivering on the union remaining competitive worldwide. i would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise the major increase dedicated to eu4health. the 2021 budget should be using the entire available margin to strengthen those eu programmes that contribute to the digital and green transformation. as the rapporteur for the industry, research and energy (itre) opinion and chair of itre committee, i would like to recall the important role of the eu agencies and the role they are playing in helping to achieve policy objectives set by the legislator. therefore, i would like to highlight the need to strengthen the agencies under the itre remit with sufficient funding and staffing, in line with their tasks and responsibilities. particularly important in supporting the energy transition expected in the coming years is the agency for cooperation of energy regulators, which needs substantial reinforcement.
the imco rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. the coronavirus pandemic has severely affected almost all sectors of the european economy. we are now facing a resurgence of this pandemic, which will only exacerbate existing socio-economic problems. in this context, the urgent and effective financing of small and medium-sized enterprises is a prerequisite for economic recovery. although the work on the new financial framework has not yet been finalised, i believe that the new budget should be a strong centre for financing sustainable development, innovation, strategic infrastructure and digital transformation. this will make the single market stronger and more resilient. to this extent, there is a particular need to create synergies between the single market programme and the recovery fund in order to trigger the necessary investments. the covid-19 crisis has highlighted the dependence of the single market on global supply chains and manufacturers, as well as the dangers of product insecurity. it is therefore essential to develop a sound consumer policy that ensures an appropriate level of protection for consumers. restoring the confidence of union citizens in the market is key to stimulating demand and economic recovery. we believe that the draft budget for 2021 creates such opportunities.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i welcome the breakthrough in the mff negotiations and in particular the fact that there should be a little more money for future-oriented programmes for the next seven years and thus also for the 2021 budget. but the increases in funding fall far short of parliament's demands to triple the budget for erasmus+ and double that for creative europe. both programmes are of great importance for the social cohesion and economic development of the union as a strategic investment in the future. education opportunities, youth exchanges and cultural cooperation are important building blocks to promote open, tolerant and inclusive societies, and very effective means to strengthen our democracy and combat racism, nationalism and inequality.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an unprecedented crisis. the answers that the european union gives to citizens are decisive for our future, for families and for businesses, and i am convinced today more than ever that we must build a bridge between institutions and citizens, because europe works for them and for us. this has been highlighted in the report in which the committee on constitutional affairs sets out some clear priorities. first, the increase in funds to promote the involvement and participation of citizens in the democratic life of the union. secondly, the inclusion of a chapter on expenditure devoted to the conference on the future of europe. if there is no funding, the conference cannot be held, and the commission has done well to significantly increase investment in communications services, but there is a need for a further effort to combat disinformation. i believe that the funds available to the commission representations and parliament's liaison offices in the member states should also be increased. the agreement reached yesterday between the council and parliament reaffirms the centrality of this house as the body which controls the budgetary procedure, and the committee on constitutional affairs therefore considers it essential to ensure the transparency of our budgets. we therefore ask that parliament not only analyse the various stages of budget implementation but also publish regularly how the funds are spent and what results are achieved.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, we in the women’s rights and gender equality (femm) committee are glad that parliament’s position reflects so well the important issues of gender budgeting and that so many of femm’s recommendations have been taken into account. there is no doubt that gender-responsive budgeting must be mainstreamed in the 2021 general budget as well as in future budgets to better align policies promoting the equal participation of women in the labour market. this is particularly important in times of the covid-19 crisis, which poses a serious risk of rolling back decades of gains achieved in gender equality in labour market participation. thus, we welcome the reinforcement of employment and social innovation strands to support programmes and training targeted at advancing women’s participation and tackling their precarity on the labour market. it is also extremely important to secure the daphne strand to fight violence against girls and women, which has escalated over the last few months. however, the greatest challenge is still, unfortunately, ahead of us. no real progress can be achieved without a real – i underline real – council commitment to prioritising gender equality as well, and respect of human rights must also be a part of all member states’ governments’ policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're talking about the 2021 budget today, which is a really important issue. this budget is linked to the multiannual financial framework and the reconstruction tool. i'm sure we're all aware that europe is going through an economic crisis, a pandemic crisis, but also a crisis of security for the people of the union in general. on the other hand, we have 15 very active flagship programmes, as mentioned in the resolution of 23 july this year. these included the health programmes, the connecting europe facility, the horizon europe programme, investeu, the just transition fund, the european neighbourhood instrument. all these flagship programmes are of great importance for the development of europe. and i want to make it very clear that this is one of the reasons why the ecr will vote for the compromise on the budget amendments. but there's a problem with the resolution. and i will say right away that we will abstain because we believe that the 60% climate targets by 2030 are unfeasible and will cost the european union a lot. the implementation of the rule of law mechanism also undermines european solidarity. the resolution also calls for increased funding for sexual and reproductive rights, and we don't like that either, so we're abstaining.
in writing. 2021 is a special and pivotal year for member states and all beneficiaries. the ongoing covid-19 pandemic is also a particular challenge. that's why we need to ensure that the budget is adequate. in 2021, we have to expect cumulative payments. this budget starts a new programming period for the years 2021-2027 and must also cover commitments from the previous multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. this is particularly true of cohesion policy and the rural development programme (rdp), which are very important investment instruments in the eu. as rapporteur for the budgetary opinion on cohesion policy in the committee on regional development, i have drawn attention to this on many occasions. despite the increase in the 2021 budget by more than €15 billion, i have my doubts about the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2030 or the introduction of the rule of law mechanism as a condition for the ep's consent to the annual budgetary procedure. it is essential that we reach an agreement on this as soon as possible in order to finalise next year's budget and mobilise the necessary funds for member states, including the much-needed react-eu instrument to combat the economic and social impact of the covid-19 pandemic.
madam president! the pandemic has exposed another weakness of the european union: we lack mechanisms to protect human rights, a system that guarantees rights, creates mechanisms to deter governments from breaking them, that is ready to react quickly when violations occur. the european union must create such a system. covid-19 is not just affecting the sick and dying, it's not just affecting businesses, but it's also affecting women who are experiencing domestic violence, because there are countries in the european union where women don't feel safe in their own homes. the victims of covid-19 are women in poland, whose so-called court under the cover of the pandemic once again takes away their rights to legal and safe abortion. all this is happening in the european union, under the watchful eye of the european commission. to paraphrase a polish politician: "human rights or death". either the union will protect human rights, women's rights, lgbt+ rights, or it will cease to exist.
madam president, commissioner, european democracy, the democratic rule of law, is the concern of all europeans. that is why this parliament is so important now. and that is why the work of the european commission is so important and why its role is so important, commissioner reynders. we need transparency and we need to avoid any arbitrariness, because it is the discretion of the ultra-strengthened executives to know why and who is behind each of the measures restricting our freedoms, because they are touching the very heart of the democratic rule of law. bad decisions, the toxic exercise of power are especially negative and poisonous at this time, and the temptation of populism is also stronger. that is why we need this parliament's exercise. and that is why we will not be docile to any arbitrariness or discretion, not even of the executives, the executive and the presidency of this parliament. we need to be able to do our job fully because it's more important right now. that's right, yeah. and another very important question that has not been said yet: there are more than 200,000 europeans, according to official data, who have died from coronavirus in europe. more than 200 000 in this house. and that is why we are going to demand in this parliament that a committee be set up to study objectively, technically, what happened in the first wave. and that is why this parliament will say that it will not let down its guard against any temptation to weaken our rule of law, and it will demand it. and that is why we need this parliament to be absolutely active, with all its powers, with all our capacities of representation, with all our capacities as a parliament. and that's why we need to indicate what the actual data is. in my country there are 20,000 dead that have not even been counted.
president. - emergency laws and regulations restricting the fundamental rights of citizens should only be used in genuine emergencies, such as war and other serious crises. is there a real emergency in the eu? covid-19 is a relatively mild virus that has only been able to lead to a crisis because the capacity of health care has not been calculated for pandemics and governments are insufficiently prepared to manage a crisis. as a result, unfortunately, more intervention is now needed than would have been necessary with proper emergency preparation. to prevent history from repeating itself, action must be taken not only within governments but also within the eu institutions. the next crisis could be a pandemic, but it could also be a severe recession, social unrest or even war. governments should take this into account when formulating policies and budgets and build in emergency buffers so that in the future we rarely or never have to rely on emergency interventions, since true emergencies fortunately rarely occur.
madam president, albert camus wrote in the plague, ‘i have no idea what’s awaiting me, or what will happen when all this ends. for the moment i know this; there are sick people and they need curing.’ this is a basic truth. we should remind the national governments for some of them think too much about how all this will end for them. during the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, there is an especially great potential for abuse of the human tragedy for political ends and here lies an additional danger, the danger that emergency measures taken during the second wave of the pandemic can lead to further and harsher abuse of the circumstances for political means. we must not allow that. we have to be strong, we have to be united in countering any temptation to curtail the rights of citizens in the name of fighting the current plague. covid-19 must not become a convenient justification for cracking down on social protests, limiting the role of the opposition and holding free and fair elections. at this moment, we need to consolidate all our efforts towards curing the sick and also towards defending our fundamental values against power grabs by unscrupulous politicians and here we must be vigilant and ensure that in this house the rule of law is respected.
madam president! the resolution on the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on democracy addresses a fundamental issue, the role of power in democracy. it's about her responsibilities and boundaries. in an emergency situation like a pandemic, there are restrictions on civil rights, restrictions on assembly, restrictions on movement. it makes the citizens even more vulnerable to the authorities. the test of whether a government is truly democratic is how it behaves in such an emergency. the question is, are politicians not using this moment to trample on the rights and dignity of citizens? some governments in the union have failed this test. let me give you an example from the last few weeks. a united right government that is forcing women in poland to desperately protest for their most basic rights right now, during the second wave of the pandemic. but i have no doubt: this power will not win with women. in a democracy, the government is supposed to serve the people, not the other way around. what is happening in poland today is the beginning of the end of a phase. the women's revolution will change poland for the better, respecting human rights, open, modern, tolerant and respectful of all its citizens, endowed with a sense of humor, self-distancing, devoid of arrogance and self-obsession. democracy is a woman. i have great respect for all of you protesting in these difficult times. you are hope. you have shown that democracy is stronger than the coronavirus.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by congratulating rapporteur christian buşoi and all the other contributors. we really have a good concept for this new big health program. and a big thank you to manfred weber and the others who helped to make sure that we now have a decent financial base. we have ten times the money we had in the current period. this is not quite as much as parliament and the commission would have liked, but it is ten times more likely to help patients in the european union in practice. and that, of course, is the first thing about this terrible pandemic. everyone should look at the death toll, not just the infections: we have almost 4,000 people who died from this pandemic yesterday alone. and that is why it is important that we act, but above all that the right measures are taken in the member states. and that's why i'm wearing a mask in my speech today, because when you speak, something comes out, and that's prevented by a mask. but christian buşoi is right: we must also look at the long term. the epp is particularly concerned about cancer. the commission has already made a good proposal, and parliament has improved it. we want concrete measures that lead to fewer cancer cases and better treatment throughout europe. thank you to everyone who helped.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr rapporteur, cristian buşoi, in relation to this plan, i would like to congratulate the commissioner because i saw yesterday your strategy on the european union for health, and i admit that there are many similarities between what we have worked on this fourth action programme, eu4health, and your proposals. i am glad that there are some common points. you have in particular raised the problem of stress tests, and you know that this was a request from the greens and i have asked you many times on this subject so that we can take stock of the situation and look, in the event of a health crisis, at the state of health systems in the various countries, how we can better harmonize, how we can compare different strategies, this is very important in order to have appropriate responses. at the same time, eu4health is normally intended to improve health crisis management, make medicines and health products more accessible and improve access to care. we have heard that the budget has been voted on in the committee on budgets, and i thank him for that. we meps have made sure that certain priorities are set for this framework programme, in particular through the support and establishment of public-private non-profit-making pharmaceutical establishments to produce essential medicines that may be lacking at european level. it is about regaining health sovereignty. and even now, at the crisis level, in some countries there is a shortage. so it's very important to do that. we are also talking a lot about the epidemic of cancers, these chronic diseases, and here we are in favour of the creation of a european cancer institute, whose task will be to synthesise existing and future national registers and which will make it possible to know precisely the number of cancers per country, what type of cancer it is, by age group or sex. the focus on prevention is therefore essential. but the best cancer therapy, let's remember, is to not get cancer in the first place. and europe has a responsibility for chemical pollution, endocrine disruptors and even electromagnetic waves. so i welcome the complementarity between the commission's strategy and this report which will define the framework programme.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, first of all, let me express my genuine satisfaction at the increase in the overall budget to eur 5.1 billion. it is less than what was originally proposed by the commission and what meps had in mind, but i think we are starting to get to a situation where we can fund at least some of the priorities sufficiently. as you know, we on the committee have been forced to make some very painful cuts to fit in. now we'll have to do them, too, but under less pressure. as for the overall scope and goals of the program, i just want to say that i hope it doesn't focus solely on addressing the covid-19 pandemic or on cancer patients. it should be stressed that there are other diseases and other structural problems in the health system of the european union that have been overlooked for decades and that also need to be addressed. i am pleased that the report by mr bușoia was adopted virtually unanimously and on the basis of broad political agreement. i hope that's how it goes here in the plenary. after the budget increase, we still have the question of possible stockpiling. even with the raise, i'd be careful about introducing it. it is clear that stockpiling alone is capable of draining a considerable part of the budget, whatever form it takes, and i still do not consider the current amount sufficient for its introduction. colleagues, i look forward to the results of the vote and the upcoming trilogues. we have a lot of work to do, but it is work that europe needs and that can help hundreds, thousands and millions of patients.
mr president, health is of great importance to everyone. the commission is now taking a step in the right direction by pointing out to member states' administrations the need to cooperate in times of crisis. the commission also calls for a broad european approach to prevent future health care shortages and to respond appropriately to crises. this approach is focused on the covid-19 crisis. however, crises can take many forms. and since there are many, i think too many people on this planet, we can expect many more crises in the future. this provides a prime opportunity for bureaucrats, national governments and the eu to grab more power and thus poses a risk to the democratic legal order and the protection of citizens from abuse of power by the state. the eu must therefore set a good example and exercise restraint in this respect, and above all monitor the quality of the democratic rule of law in all member states. health care remains the primary responsibility of the member states.
madam president, madam commissioner, ensuring the good health and well-being of citizens is one of the most fundamental responsibilities of a society. the right to physical and mental health is a fundamental human right and every person, without discrimination, has the right to access modern and comprehensive healthcare. we socialists and democrats are convinced that europe needs stronger and more robust health programmes, both to strengthen the cooperation between the member states, but also to overcome the common transnational health emergencies such as the present covid-19 pandemic. the pandemic shows clearly that we need to do more to protect the citizens’ health and we need to do it better. we welcome the eu4health programme which significantly boosts europe’s effort to improve the health of all citizens, and to be an important building block for the health union. in order to achieve concrete results, we must also fully take into account the underlying root causes that threaten our health. there are important social, economic and societal factors that have a clear impact on our health. economic inequalities, social factors such as alcohol intake, dietary habits or the exposure to chemicals affect us. these factors must be included in europe’s actions so we can prevent disease and illness. therefore we have worked hard to further develop proper health determinants in this regulation. all people have the same right to high quality, safe, accessible and affordable health care. finally, i’d like to mention also the tremendous work that my colleague, sara cerdas, has done for this programme and who managed to secure the parliament’s position which contains many of the important wins for europe’s citizens.
madam president, i too, of course, welcome the agreement reached with the council the day before yesterday on the european budget for the next seven years. more than €5 billion for health. so, it is true that this is half of what we were asking for, commission and parliament, but it is still a revolution, it is twelve times what was foreseen by the previous commission. unfortunately, it took an unprecedented crisis, such as the one we are going through, to make everyone understand the vital, crucial importance of the european chain in health protection. so it's not just covid, which my colleagues have already commented on extensively. i would like to speak personally about a particular subject, a battle that has been waged for many years on the benches of this parliament, and i would like to speak this morning about rare diseases. for these often forgotten patients, hundreds of kilometres from their specialist, sometimes even across the border, we have, by trial and error, invented the new tools of a new medicine. i am thinking of online consultations, the networking of knowledge, the reference networks, or the common information platforms, such as orphanet. these are great tools and i am delighted that the commission intends to extend them, to share them, particularly with cancer or wherever it is useful, but not at the expense of rare diseases. these advances are still fragile, they must be consolidated, their budget strengthened and sanctified. so this is the call i wanted to make this morning: to make the fight against rare diseases a priority is also to fight for the health of all europeans.
madam president, the consequences of years of disinvestment in public health services, to make way for the commercialization of the sector and the business of disease, are now exposed to evidence with the covid-19 pandemic. the european union has responsibilities in this respect. it has imposed, through the stability pact and its successors, such as the country recommendations under the european semester, cuts in health expenditure, reductions in public sector professionals, degradation of their working conditions. now, this show isn't enough to not look bad in the picture. not only does it fall short of what would be required, it opens up some wicked paths. we have tried to work on correcting some of its most negative aspects and some of its shortcomings. in respect of national sovereignty and competences, this programme should focus resources on public health systems, support investments in prevention, diagnosis, treatment, professional infrastructure and equipment, support the development of medicines policies focused on patient needs, accessibility, security of supply, free from the constraints of the pharmaceutical industry.
madam president, the health systems of the member states are facing immense challenges: the increase in life expectancy and therefore in chronicity, non-communicable diseases - cancer in particular - rare diseases, old and new infectious diseases such as covid, or mental illnesses, health inequalities between countries, between regions, between social classes, between genders, which confront us with the problem of the social determinants of health, the impact of environmental degradation - to name only the most important ones. and to address these challenges we need research, more research, from the one health paradigm; promotion and prevention; really believing in the concept of health in all policies; and, of course, we need to equalise health capacities in the realm of professionals, in the realm of medical technologies, in access to therapeutic innovations, and so on. if we think and tackle these instruments and strategies at european level, we will move faster and go further. we need to build a european health policy and the eu4health programme is a step in the right direction.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it's impossible to sum up years of struggle and condense it into a minute. i would therefore like to thank all the professional organisations, the parliamentary groups of the european parliament and now the european commission for their contribution to finally putting the creation of a european health union on the agenda. we have been fighting for this for years and i am proud of the social democratic group for being the first to embrace our proposal. for me, as a hungarian, the starting point, the source of this proposal, was to fight for a citizen from a small village in a cluster of houses to have the same, the same access to health services as a citizen from brussels. that is why we are fighting for a european health union and i am glad that the commissioner has stood by us. so let's get down to the concrete steps.
mr president, the new health programme is a step forward in the construction of europe. it proves once again that we are not just an economic and monetary union, but a true union of people and for people. strengthening the union's health competences, which covid-19 has shown to be so essential, will bring us benefits in articulating policies to prevent and combat diseases, including pandemics. it will also ensure the best possible cooperation in scientific research, from fundamental to clinical research. i take this opportunity to welcome the announcement of the creation of a european agency for biomedical research. it is a measure which i have personally advocated for a long time. the creation of a european health database will also be crucial. our populations face similar problems. from cancer to cardiovascular disease, it makes sense that we share knowledge in search of solutions that will work for everyone. by respecting the privacy of our citizens and taking steps to ensure that privacy, we have everything to gain from a common space of health data.
mr. chairman, please! when the commission came out with a draft of a stand-alone eu health programme for the next seven years in may of this year, we had the first wave of the pandemic. after weeks of fighting covid-19, it was clear to everyone that we lacked the tools and resources to fight it, including financial resources. only the last cynic can say that the health care system can function on the basis of an idea. no, we need the money. as the european parliament, we wanted more money for the europe for health programme than the council, and fortunately, in the negotiations, we were able to secure a large amount of money for the programme. that's a good start. the health of the citizens is priceless and cannot be spared. covid-19 has also shown us the strength and importance of european solidarity. we are much more effective when we are united. we lose by holding on to national egos. we learned a lesson from the solidarity lesson. i am very much encouraged that now, in the second wave, the member states are helping each other. i would like to thank the german authorities for their help in the fight for the health of patients all over europe. unfortunately, the polish government does not accept this aid for political reasons, but we in silesia (...) and we say to you, friends, danke schön.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened to this discussion with great interest. i want to thank you for your insights, for your comments and really again for your support. all of the eu, all the member states continue to fight this crisis. we’re in the middle of this pandemic, and we need to fight it with all the means available to us. yesterday, when we presented the european health union proposal, it is coming out from the lessons we have learnt, but are also learning, and what we need to do in order to respond to what citizens expect from us. many of you mentioned needing to do more about cancer, needing to do more about rare diseases. yes, this is absolutely true, and in the eu4health and with the increased budget that together we have achieved, we will be able to do a great deal more. we don’t have any time to lose. it is absolutely clear that we need to send these signals, and we owe it to our citizens in order to roll out what they have been demanding. i want to end by saying that this house has played a key role by insisting on reinforcing the eu4health budget significantly, and i really want to thank you for that, because coming from parliament myself, i know i could not have done this, and we could not have done this as the commission, without you. we can only do this together for one reason – because we share the same vision, a vision that is citizen-centred and health—centred. so i look forward to working with you on this important file, but let’s remember this is just the beginning. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today and the final vote will take place tomorrow, friday 13 november 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the european union's health action programme 2021-2027 that is the subject of today's debate is a response to the calls of our citizens who expect a much more active role for the european union in the area of health. we should never again experience such drastic shortages of medical equipment as we have in recent months due to the coronavirus pandemic. never again should health care providers have to choose which patients get life-saving equipment. the coronavirus pandemic should be a watershed moment in the european union's health action. the creation of a european health union is therefore an urgent priority today, enabling member states to prepare for and respond to health crises, to develop innovative medical products and to improve together the prevention, treatment and care of diseases such as cancer. the european union has a huge potential to contribute to a higher level of health protection for europeans. i hope that the european union for health will allow this potential to be exploited properly.
in writing. "healthy citizens are the greatest asset of any country", and that is why i support the eu4health special health programme, which already has a far larger budget than the programmes that have been implemented so far. eu4health is an ambitious stand-alone health initiative for 2021-2027 and i believe that its implementation will make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of healthcare systems in the post-covid-19 pandemic. i believe that through clearly defined objectives, the programme will be a tool for broadly promoting health on the one hand, and on the other hand, will show areas where cooperation can be improved and inequalities reduced in many areas of public health. in the work on the programme, i focused in particular on actions in line with the strategic priorities, i.e. digitalisation of healthcare, elimination of drug shortages - mentioning the restoration and maintenance of drug safety - and broad-based preventive actions in the field of chronic diseases, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. we also haven't forgotten about the record on better management of antimicrobials, such as antibiotics. complementarity and synergies with the european cancer plan and other eu programmes will be based on respect for the division of competences in the field of health policy as set out in article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). i therefore look forward to very constructive interinstitutional negotiations with the council and the commission next week.
mr president, commissioner, two weeks ago, as chairman of the committee on the environment and public health, i sent you a letter asking for transparency on key elements of the contracts you are signing. our demands are justified and balanced, we do not ask for full transparency of contracts. why would you do that? because we know that in these contracts there are indeed clauses which fall under professional secrecy, industrial secrecy. however, there is no reason why you should not be able to publish the price of the vaccine, the margin made by the laboratories. what is the cost structure, how do you control that cost structure, what is the legal liability regime, what is the intellectual property? we're putting a lot of money into this, are we giving away all the intellectual property to private companies or not? and finally, the place of production. these are four elements which must not be left unaddressed. you're hiding behind legal arguments that won't hold up, and behind that, politically, we want this vaccine to succeed. make no mistake, commissioner, we all want this vaccine to work. but for it to be successful, it must be widely accepted. and for it to be widely accepted, there has to be trust. and for there to be trust, there has to be transparency, particularly on these four key elements. please help us convince people that they can then trust, this is a major public health issue. let's not make the same mistake as the industry with tests and masks, let's win the vaccine battle.
mr president, commissioner, we are in an incredible situation. we're in a global health crisis, and what we see is that right now, there are over 200 labs trying to find a vaccine, and there are seven to eight that are in phase iii. so we're really hoping to find a safe and effective vaccine. but in the vaccines that are offered to us, some are still special. either we have genetically modified vaccines, in the case of astrazeneca, for example, or we have messenger rna vaccines and these vaccines have never been authorized at this time at the human level. to regain trust - everyone talks about the trust of european citizens - well, we need total transparency. i'm joining others in saying that for there to be social acceptance for vaccination, for people to have confidence in vaccines, what do we need? we need transparency in contracts, we need to know how much europe has given to the laboratories, we need to know the cost of vaccines, we also need to know the intellectual property you grant to laboratories that will also make money. so trust is built.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for being here with us. the expectation of the vaccine is legitimate. we are living through one of the greatest public health crises and challenges that we have ever known. but we need to know exactly what was negotiated. the question of transparency is not a trivial one. the commissioner said that all member states will have access to vaccines in accordance with what has been negotiated. can the public know or not know what was negotiated? can citizens know or not know who will have access? these questions are fundamental if we are to have a response to the crisis we are experiencing. besides, we also need respect. the european union and the european citizens have paid millions of euros to pharmaceutical companies to develop this vaccine, and in the hearings we are having at committee level in this parliament, there are pharmaceutical companies that don't even bother to show up and to be held accountable. we also need to know who will own the knowledge. again, are we talking about public money and private knowledge? it is not appropriate to discuss who owns this property and say: it is a very important public investment and, for that very reason, it cannot be a business.
the president, the vice-president, the president, the president of the european parliament and the vice-president of the european commission. to paraphrase the great irish poet, william butler yeats, "all has changed, changed utterly: a terrible virus is born". yet the announcement of a more than 90% effective covid-19 vaccine is very encouraging news and offers a glimmer of hope that we may reclaim normal lives from the hands of this terrible virus. this vaccine, produced by biontech in collaboration with pfizer, which has a base in cork in my own constituency, has been described as a huge success for european research and innovation policy, and rightly so. partly funded by horizon 2020, innovfin and the european fund for strategic investments, this is really a positive achievement for european research. there's no harm in informing people about this, and perhaps we should send an email to the likes of boris johnson, donald trump and marine le pen. i'm sure they'd be delighted. however, a good vaccine must be efficient, safe, affordable, developed quickly and be able to achieve eu market authorisation. i therefore welcome the news that the european commission has completed a deal to purchase up to 300 million doses of this frontrunner vaccine. of course, we need buy-in from citizens, and that requires both trust and transparency. we must continue to work to ensure the widespread availability of vaccines because everyone must have access to it. we will not be safe until everyone is safe. so our task is clear provide a vaccine that is universally available, easily accessible, affordable and effective and brings trust. we need trust for it to be effective.
mr. president, now that we have hopeful progress in obtaining a safe and effective vaccine for the covid-19 pandemic, it is a good time to recall the criteria that should guide this process: scientific guarantees and safety for our citizens; accessibility of the future vaccine but, at the same time, prioritizing at-risk groups; and, obviously, that we want a vaccine that is affordable in terms of price for states but free for our citizens. i want to send two messages at the same time. firstly, europe is giving us bargaining power over the pharmaceutical companies in the purchasing process, with four contracts already signed, but that bargaining power cannot be at the expense of transparency, which is necessary to protect the general interest, of course, and to generate confidence in our citizens. and at the same time, it's worth remembering that this whole process is being made possible by public-private partnerships, because all the public administrations, states, european institutions are pouring huge amounts of public money into finding the vaccine.
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone longs to be allowed to live a normal life in our community again, and everyone here apparently also longs to be clear about what is really going on. the eu has so far spent more than 20 billion kroner on negotiations with industry to provide member states with vaccines, but the public still knows too little. many questions remain unanswered: what are the contacts? how much has been spent on expanding production and how is this support reflected in the final price of the vaccine? will independent researchers have full access to the results of clinical trials before the vaccine is offered to the public? and what about liability in case of side effects? does industry depend on it or does the state, that is, the citizens themselves? at a minimum, we must guarantee transparency about everything, at the latest one year after the product has been placed on the market, so that both industry and the european commission are aware that they will be held accountable, even if it is known in advance that there is almost no effect. we don't want another tamiflu scandal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am occasionally asked what the european union is actually doing to combat the pandemic. i can say with great passion that we are doing a lot and we are doing a lot of good, as we have seen again in the last few days. firstly, we europeans have secured the vaccine. i would like to thank the commission very, very much today. i think you have done a great job, commissioner. less than 24 hours after the announcement of the vaccine breakthrough, the commission has already reserved hundreds of millions of vaccine doses for european citizens. that's really a very, very great achievement. i want to thank you very, very much for this. and i am also confident that the distribution of the vaccine among the 27 member states will be fair. i would also like to thank you for your suggestions. of course, as europeans, when we place orders for 440 million citizens, we are putting a very different weight on the scale, and i am glad that we have not come to the point where we are fighting among the 27 countries here about who can get the vaccine first. if it had gone to the greens and the left - and i want to stress this, especially as i follow the debate today - we would not have a single dose contract, we would not have a single dose option. secondly, we in europe have given a lot of european money to biontech, the company that has made this breakthrough. i would say that our research and innovation policy is also well-positioned. thank you for that, too. let us be proud today of doing something good for us europeans. it's a really good day for us in europe.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, we are once again facing a record number of infections. some member states have entered a new lockdown. our health care systems have been brought back to the edge of sustainability. medical personnel are making superhuman efforts to provide care to all who need it, while the economy continues to shrink or at best stagnate. so this week's announcement of progress in developing a new vaccine certainly brings a breath of optimism. but there's no room for euphoria. the situation remains very critical and requires additional involvement from all of us. when we talk about vaccine availability in the coming period, there are three things that are going to be key. first, to ensure the safety and efficacy of the vaccine and that's where we can't compromise. second, to build up production capacity to meet the high demand and third, to develop plans and global distribution. at all stages, i agree with my predecessors, transparency is extremely important. our fellow citizens have sent us a clear message that they want more europe in their daily lives and i therefore want to express my satisfaction that the european commission published yesterday a communication on building a european health union, as it is a very important step in strengthening our collective preparedness for future health threats.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i want to thank the house for your words of encouragement at these times and for supporting our vaccine strategy, but i really feel that credit needs also to go to my whole team in my cabinet, my dg, and especially director sandra gallina, for all the negotiations – this needs to be said. now until we have found a sustainable solution, we have all agreed at least that the coronavirus affects each and every day of our lives. and until we have found a sustainable solution it will continue to impact on our societies, on our economies and on the everyday way we live. so a safe, effective and affordable vaccine, universally accessible, is a crucial exit to the pandemic. i also believe that we share the vision that we want what is best for our citizens. we want them to have the vaccine as soon as possible and under the best possible conditions. now to do so – and i want to be clear because i have heard questions on the negotiations from several members and i need to answer them. first of all, member states had to organise with the commission a new process. we presented a vaccine strategy a few months ago. i want to assure you that we’re following both eu law and the vaccine strategy, and member states have been part of this constant negotiation process so that we would be as inclusive as possible from the very beginning. it is important that we all understand that this way of working, with and for 27 member states, fully guarantees both accountability and compliance with the rules that protect the interests of those involved, but in doing so we must also respect the rules on what information can be made public and what has to remain protected. and more crucially, we need to work together to deliver a lasting and decisive solution for our citizens. there were questions on liability. i will repeat what i said in my opening remarks: that the agreements with the vaccine developers do not change or derogate from eu legislation and rules on liability. there were questions on when a vaccine will be available, how will citizens know about this. well first of all, let us be clear, we are still not at the point when any company has submitted for market authorisation to the european medicines agency. you have seen with us that along the phase of clinical trials you can have twists and turns. so i think we have to be cautious about saying when a vaccine will be available and when it would reach citizens. we have spoken of best case scenarios for the end of this year or the beginning of the next, but again i follow what véronique trillet-lenoir also said: that we have to be very cautious in our communication with citizens. véronique trillet-lenoir also spoke about the need for prioritisation, which citizens will be vaccinated first, and i wanted to share with you that we have been working on this with the ecdc (european centre for disease prevention) and we’ve already shared with member states which groups, what prioritisation they should look at. but of course all member states will be doing this according to their own situation on the ground. in terms of rapid tests, which were mentioned, and antigen tests, we have been looking at this with the ecdc for the last few weeks and we hope to come out with guidance next week for the settings of rapid tests. on tests of therapeutics – this was also mentioned and you’re absolutely right – we haven’t taken our eyes off therapeutics for the last eight months. i have had weekly calls with the european medicines agency and with the ecdc every day for over eight months now and we follow every single development as it comes out on therapeutics. in terms of efficacy: until we have a safe and effective vaccine that has actually been submitted for authorisation and we have the independent scientific assessment by the european medicines agency, i think it is too early to start now hypothesising whether this vaccine will be used for the young, the old, for prevention. we will know that once we have a safe and effective vaccine. but what i can assure you of is that we are leaving no stone unturned in order to be able to ensure that we have a result as quickly as possible. and because speed often creates concern, why so quickly? well, we are in a time when the whole world is investing in this research but also there are now different technologies which allow us to move much more quickly for this. i heard from the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), pascal canfin, about the importance of trust. he’s absolutely correct in this, and it’s important that we know that transparency creates trust and trust is key. we’ve heard your concerns about transparency and what i can tell you is that within the contractual constraints, we are ready to explore making information about the contracts available to nominated members of the parliament, with specific arrangements, once the sensitive ongoing negotiations are concluded. so let us move forwards together. we need your support in the roll-out of vaccines in your member states and in building trust in the solution that citizens expect from us.
in writing. it has been a challenging year, with no precedent in the world. the covid pandemic has affected everyone in a devastating way. we've never been in isolation for such a long period of time, and we have to accept the limitations that are necessary to contain this pandemic. as colleagues have said on many occasions today, it is very important that member states apply the restrictions. however, the emergency powers need to be subject to additional scrutiny to ensure that they are not used as a pretext to alter the balance of power in the long term and that this does not undermine the rights of our citizens or otherwise unduly restrict their freedoms and rights beyond what is necessary to manage the pandemic. we expect the commission to coordinate better at eu level to ensure a uniform approach to restrictions and in particular to intra-eu travel. different measures and requirements in the member states add to an already very difficult situation and we would like to see a common approach at eu level. i would like to congratulate the commission on its efforts to organise the purchase of vaccines at eu level. only then will we be able to ensure that all eu citizens have access to vaccines. the union's solidarity is needed now more than ever, and i am very confident that, by working together, we will finally overcome this crisis.
in writing. the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has hit the european union hard. the spread of the virus can be slowed down by the solidarity and sacrifice of european citizens and by the appropriate action of member state governments. but the only way to solve the problem is to develop a reliable, safe, and effective vaccine. positive news about testing coronavirus vaccines may give cause for cautious optimism. it is particularly gratifying to note that among the promising projects is a vaccine jointly funded by the member states and the european union. for europeans, safe vaccination can bring predictability and stability back into their daily lives. it is important that the procurement of vaccines and their availability are carried out with due scientific rigour in accordance with the relevant legislation. however, in order to act quickly and effectively, confidence in the authorities of the union and the member states should be restored. we cannot allow the ideological slogans of the european left to undermine the fight against the epidemic. finally, good practices in member states should be taken into account in the context of the fight against the coronavirus. one such example is hungary, which has initiated the establishment of a national vaccine factory to ensure universal access to vaccines.
in writing. – the whole of europe, the whole world, is impatiently waiting for a vaccine against covid—19. we have heard some promising news lately about advanced stages of clinical trials in the search for such a vaccine, and that gives hope. while researchers and scientists are doing their part, we as policy makers must do ours. that means that we have to make sure that the vaccine, once ready, is available to all. appropriate mechanisms and procedures have to be put in place to provide for a swift roll—out of the vaccination process. that means that already now the eu and the member states need to be preparing scenarios for effective distribution chains. every day of delay would mean further lost lives. i would like to underline one more important element of the vaccination process – the trust of citizens in its safety and value. we have been witnessing a disturbing spread of anti—vaccine misinformation, fuelled by supporters of conspiracy theories. misinformation in the area of public health can have literally deadly effects, so we have to fight it very hard.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i want to make it very clear that we cannot achieve the dream of climate neutrality without the investment support of the countries that are in the most difficult energy situation, and those that are starting from the furthest position. there are countries in the european union. the european union is not an area of economically equal countries, also in terms of energy. climate objectives should not be pursued at the expense of energy poverty and job losses. the european parliament's overly ambitious climate policy will surely destabilise fiscal policy by forcing the poorer eu countries to borrow heavily. clean ecological space is important, but it cannot cause some countries to develop faster and others to develop slower, because they simply cannot find the means to develop a modern system and modern industry. a clean energy system based on the sun, wind, atom, hydrogen should of course play a vital role, but it could be accompanied by gas, for example. because we're making a huge revolution in this area, and no revolution in the history of mankind has ever worked, so if we very quickly give up some of our gas supply, it will lead to another crisis. so i ask everyone to be rational on this matter, because we already have a problem with the pandemic and with the economy, which is why i propose that the ecr group vote against this report.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. to implement the green deal, to invest green, we must remember that we must do it for the citizens and with the citizens, that we must do it in a fair, solidarity-based, flexible and at the same time realistic way. unfortunately, solidarity, flexibility and fairness have already been trashed in climate law. there is no european solidarity, no energy solidarity or solidarity in the pursuit of zero emissions at the level of the european union. we forgot about the citizens. in the impact assessment, we have information that millions of jobs will be lost and 25% of the population will live in energy poverty. we don't show how we're going to fix it. at the same time, the report shows that we have a huge investment gap, that we simply don't have the money to do it. the european commission's communication, which calculates how much money it needs to reach the 40% target, let alone the 60%, is 662 billion euros a year. on the other hand, the commission is cutting the funding for the just transformation fund and is also willing to take over the ets, and we are about to review the ets. we need to strengthen this system, give it more scope in the modernisation fund, and above all think about creating a new energy justice fund, because it will be fair, solidarity, real and closer to the citizens.
madam president! the investment plan for a sustainable europe is one of the key elements of the european green deal. but the document we have before us cannot be supported. firstly, there is a lack of a sufficiently ambitious financial plan, without which the implementation of the transformation could lead to irreparable socio-economic damage. the long-term support to the countries and regions facing the most difficult challenges is not envisaged, so as not to put the union on a different speed track. there is no guarantee of flexibility in choosing the path of transformation, and finally there is no reflection on the fact that the solutions prepared in the past did not take into account the economic downturn we are facing. the energy transition is a huge financial burden. will the union have the economic resources to do so in a time of crisis? experts are increasingly calling for the transition to be slowed down, as the priority now must be to overcome the crisis caused by the strategies adopted by states in response to the coronavirus, in particular the lockdown of the economy. anti-crisis measures must therefore be tailored to protect the climate and the environment without further damaging the economy. consideration should be given to suspending the co2 emissions trading system and the european green deal in general for the duration of the crisis. let us slow down the pace of the eu's ideological climate policy so that it does not lead to a disaster for which future generations will pay. it's time to lock down the green order.
i have to say, madam president, if you go outside now, you will see that parliament is well filled with permanent staff, with service staff. it is only us the president does not want to see here in parliament. i think it's a scandal and there must be consequences. the green deal: the green deal needs to be funded, clearly, in a way that it has the greatest added value for the environment, and in a way that we bring people along and connect climate action with jobs. the report really does provide a great basis for this, and i have only one message to convey: let us not get too complicated and too ideological. we already have a 200 billion euro investment bottleneck in the current budget. that means that we have money in the structural funds that the member states cannot spend because it is too complicated. and now, when the n+ rules expire, the money will be spent on something else, but not on european added value, and that cannot happen to us when financing the green deal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the paris objectives are our benchmark, but not with the ideologically-driven proposals of the environment committee for a better world. this leads to funding chaos and frustration among smes. paris is much easier and faster with emissions trading, innovation, market economy, with an investment focus on environmental protection in the development plan. and that's it then.
madam president, the clock is ticking. in 7 years and 47 days, the global temperature rise will have passed the critical point. the books we learned about geography in school a few years ago are completely outdated today. unfortunately, man has brought about this catastrophe. the european green deal should therefore not only be a programme foundation, but also a real action that we must implement immediately. unfortunately, there are serious flaws in this foundation. according to the european commission, reaching the 2030 climate targets will require at least €662 billion each year. poland itself, if it wants to meet certain conditions, needs between 700 and 900 billion euros. and that's why we need to have a serious debate today about the means to fund this most important challenge facing humanity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. people are "fleeing", and medical and nursing staff are overwhelmed. these hours, citizens have their eyes on us here in brussels, to see from us the roadmap that will lead not only to healing the wounds of this pandemic but to the next day in the world. the green deal is much more than an economic transformation roadmap for a climate-neutral europe. it is europe's bet on the world map. we're putting 1.8 trillion euros of public money on the table and asking private investors to invest. for this reason, a stable environment based on taxonomy criteria is needed, and at the same time, a very pragmatic sense of a smooth transition that will allow for stable investment and accessible energy. it also requires speed to ensure that the same resources are immediately available and voted on by the member states and national parliaments. we need to move directly from coal to the transition, and that is through the just transition facility with the support provided for in the report, involving resources from investeu, the public sector lending facility and the private sector. we need to boost tourism in member states like greece, which has been in the doldrums after the pandemic. you know, the green deal is not the plan that's going to solve everything. but it is the blueprint that will judge europe's performance, and its success can give europe global leadership for a sustainable future that we all want.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all thank you for this insightful and productive debate. let me express my appreciation of the european parliament’s aspiration and overall support for the sustainable europe investment plan. it is encouraging that the parliament and the commission are aligned in the stars to guide eu to the path of climate neutrality. we are, of course, deeply aware of the stark effects of the pandemic, but as we discussed, the significant challenges of climate change will not disappear with this. so the sustainable europe investment plan can steer the green transition in a way that supports and complements the recovery from the current health and economic crisis. the sustainable european investment plan is well placed to encourage sustainable investments and help raise private finance to them. the commission will do its utmost to make it a success. most of the issues in your report reflects the commission’s thinking, so there is a way forward and i look forward to continuing to work together in achieving our aligned objectives.
in writing. today we are talking about financing the european green deal, which is a priority for our citizens. while the member states will bear the largest share of the cost, green costs are not money thrown away: they are investments for future generations, for our children and grandchildren. it is crucial that funding for the green deal goes hand in hand with the recovery of the european economy from the current pandemic. that is why we have been working on the european union's own resources since the beginning of the mandate. if we want to address the social, economic and environmental challenges of climate change in an ambitious way, we should ensure that green investments are not financed solely by so-called environmental taxes, such as a tax on aviation fuel or a border carbon levy on imported products. that is why i would like to call on the member states not to unilaterally tax the digital giants. we all have to be patient and wait for the oecd's work and the commission's proposals. only joint action can ensure efficiency and the revenues from the digital tax must go to the common budget of the union and not to the national coffers. because we also share all these challenges of transformation, and only together can we face them. for my country, poland, this is an ambitious step, a generational one, but to quote the bard of a polish song by wojciech młynarski, "still in the green grass"!
in writing. achieving climate neutrality for the european union is a very ambitious plan, especially in the current situation of the covid-19 pandemic. however, such a plan will not be achieved without the development of a sufficiently ambitious investment plan and financial support to allow member states to make the transition. the plan must support countries and regions with the most difficult starting points and the greatest transformation challenges in the first place. we are aware of the great differences between european countries, also in terms of technological advancement and efficiency in the areas we are discussing here. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the internal market. this direction of budgetary changes raises serious doubts as to whether the estimated resources from this pool are proportionate to the ambition of the green deal. while the objectives of the programme remain the same as the measures to support their implementation, it is all the more important to have the flexibility to choose a path of transformation that would allow member states to achieve common objectives while taking into account the protection of citizens and the economic sectors most affected by the pandemic. the modernisation fund needs to be significantly increased or a separate fund for less prosperous member states, for example based on the energy poverty index, needs to be created.
in writing. the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the investment pillar of the green deal. the plan aims to mobilise at least €1 trillion for sustainable investment over the next decade. the positive aspect of the plan is the focus on digitalisation, research and development, strategic autonomy and strengthening of the internal market and the call for the creation of a competitive industrial sector. however, there are many elements which have a negative impact on my perception of this report. ambitious reforms offer a chance to stimulate economic growth. we must take advantage of it, but we must also reduce the risks, such as the increase in energy poverty and job losses. i would like to stress the importance of maintaining the possibility of supporting technologies using natural gas as a transitional fuel, as this is crucial for member states that remain dependent on coal. i am against the principle of not causing serious damage to the environment, including the exclusion of support for natural gas, which is to apply in the mff instrument. the reduction of the fst from eur 40 billion to eur 17,5 billion is also shocking. the eu will not achieve climate neutrality without a sufficiently ambitious investment plan and financial support to enable each member state to make the transition. the plan must support countries and regions with the most difficult starting points and the greatest transformation challenges.
mr. chairman, please! among the many issues that are important for ensuring the functioning of a sustainable market, consumer safety seems to be the most crucial. in the wake of the pandemic, which has effectively disrupted the functioning of the market, mechanisms need to be put in place to ensure that consumers are buying safe and accessible products and services, while supporting honest traders. consumers, wherever they are in the european union, should be able to effectively enforce their rights vis-à-vis traders, just as traders are entitled to sell their products and offer their services to all consumers in the single market. we need to think about changing the way we produce and consume in europe. products should be more sustainable, more environmentally friendly, with longer shelf life and repair capability. the main challenge, of course, is to find a way to encourage consumers to consume sustainably and producers to move to a green economy. in this context, we must consider whether imposing mandatory charges and certificates on european companies, and thus passing on the unavoidable additional costs to consumers, is the solution. measures designed to support and protect consumers must not result in a narrowing of their choices. we have to pay special attention to this to maintain this essential proportion.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the covid-19 pandemic has irreversibly shifted some of the trade, both in services and goods, to the digital realm. in addition to the many benefits of increased competition between traders, faster purchasing and access to a wider supplier base for consumers, this change also brings risks. this is particularly important in the context of online platforms or sellers outside the common market who are not interested in complying with the standards in force in the european union. such practices put consumers at risk and harm european smes. in the face of economic collapse, it is crucial to develop standards that support consumer rights while not undermining consumer purchasing power. the commission is challenged to update the rules in response to the challenges of the pandemic, while not over-regulating a recovering market. the revision of the general product safety directive will be one such task. the legal framework for disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence could make it the engine of the european economy and a tool to support consumers, or make european economies the frontrunners of innovation in a dozen years' time. the choice is ours. if we use our skills and innovate, the current crisis can be an opportunity for europe to make a leap forward.
i'm closing the debate. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the report drawn up by mr markus ferber on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on 'financial instruments markets: amending disclosure requirements, product governance and position limits to support recovery from the covid-19 pandemic' (com (2020) 0280) - c9-0210/2020 - 2020/0152 (cod)) (a9-0208/2020).
in writing. technology is advancing faster than legislation. the general product safety directive has not been amended for 20 years. this is economic nonsense! we need to adapt our laws to the economy of the digital age immediately. online shopping is the norm in the 21st century, and the covid-19 pandemic has made this even more apparent. many of our everyday products are equipped with ai and iot technologies. smart home devices, connected to a single platform and controlled via the internet, give us the ability to control, for example, the power consumption and this has a positive impact on environmental sustainability. on the other hand, putting all information online creates many risks, so let's use modern platforms, save energy, but also protect consumers, keeping them safe and businesses competitive. remember that cyberspace is not just the eu, and products and new technologies offered by third countries often lack adequate safeguards to protect consumers' rights and data. it is therefore important that the amendment of the provisions of the directive not only takes account of the single market but also indicates how to deal with unfair competition from outside the eu.
the following is a brief presentation of the report by magdalena adamowicz, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on strengthening media freedom: protection of journalists in europe, hate speech, disinformation and the role of platforms [2020/2009 (ini) ] (a9-0205/2020).
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you get away with this. i'm pleased and i congratulate you on your choice. we believed that the european union would protect democracy. it's not like that. we believed that our law and the memory of millions of war victims would protect us from authoritarianism and nationalism. it's not like that. we believed that democracy was immune to anti-democratic manipulation. it's not like that. rarely are strong words about a deadly threat heard, because they're rarely true. today they're as good as ever. today we are witnessing the invalidation of democracy. a vote cast out of hatred, based on misinformation or lack of information, even if it is truly counted, will never be a democratic choice. it's a formal caricature of him, at best. today, lies and hatred are used to gain or maintain power in many places around the world, including the european union. that is why, here and now, our collective voice must be heard as loud as possible, the voice of europeans, the voice of generations of children dying for freedom, the voice of parents who want peace and prosperity for future generations. the media is supposed to serve the truth, not the lie. the media is supposed to serve the voters, not the elected. the media is supposed to control power, not maintain it. that's why the media must be independent, and when it's attacked and destroyed, we must defend free media. the media is supposed to protect democracy, but the media can also kill democracy. the media can kill a man, too. the media's independence is what determines which of these roles they play. therefore, anyone who sees the rules of democracy as an obstacle, rather than a safeguard against the abuse of power, any autocrat will destroy independent media at any cost. that is why we europeans must have media independence and pluralism as our standard. there is no freedom without media independence, there is no democracy without media pluralism. the excessive concentration, the dependence on state money bought by the oligarchy or state-owned companies is a warning that media funding is becoming an electoral tool, a tool of crime against democracy. therefore, independent journalism, especially local and investigative journalism, must have a permanent place in the multiannual financial framework. i therefore propose that a permanent european fund be set up to provide direct financial support to independent journalists and the media. there can be no shortage of money to defend our democracy when there is plenty of money to destroy it. we have to protect independent journalists. they are facing violence and intimidation, they are being murdered here in the european union. female journalists are disproportionately more likely to face hate and intimidation. it's time to put an end to the silencing of women's voices. the protection of independent journalists must have a legal dimension, which is why i am calling on the commission to present a legislative act that will establish minimum standards for strategic lawsuits, known as slapps, throughout the european union. in closing, i want to say this as clearly as i can: if we do not defend media freedom, the european union will collapse, and so will our democracy. and it doesn't matter which comes first. to everyone, regardless of political colour, who is not afraid of the controlling role of the media, to everyone who believes in the power of argument rather than the power of manipulation, to everyone who does not want to return to the dark days of nationalism and authoritarianism, to everyone who believes in freedom, i ask you to support my report. let's protect the free european media, let's protect our democracy!
in writing. hate speech and disinformation are increasingly emerging as tools to increase social polarization, which is being used for political ends. combating these phenomena is essential for respecting fundamental rights, but also essential for maintaining independence, the rule of law and democracy. on the one hand, hate speech must be firmly opposed in real life, and on the other hand, it must not be allowed to become a tool for restricting freedom of expression or paralysing the fundamental human capacity to judge. so the question is, is censorship the only way to theoretically stop hate speech? it is a dangerous road, because it can be used to shut people up just because they do not think properly, because they have different views. we are already seeing signs of the ideologization of this concept and its use as a whip against political opponents. and the future may turn out to be as george orwell saw it, who wrote, "the further a society drifts from the truth, the more it hates those who proclaim it. the truth is the new hate speech. telling the truth in a time of deception is a revolutionary act. therefore, it is crucial to build the resilience of the society to false narratives through education and critical thinking in the fight against hate speech.
in writing. industry is of great importance in the european union it accounts for around 20% of the eu economy and employs nearly 35 million people. therefore, its transformation into a digital and ecological form, taking into account the complexity of the processes must be very carefully planned and adapted to the rapidly changing reality around us. many elements of a new industrial strategy for europe are needed to make the eu a leader in modern manufacturing. investment in artificial intelligence, energy efficiency improvements in buildings, network infrastructure, smart sector integration, sustainable mobility, alternative fuels and modern skills for workers are essential to make progress, but it must not be forgotten that these actions will all require huge financial investments, and therefore the countries most in need cannot be left without adequate support. europe will gradually move away from fossil fuels towards renewable energy sources such as hydrogen, wind and solar. however, it should not be forgotten that there are countries for which coal is a significant part of the energy mix, and therefore natural gas should be strongly promoted as a transitional instrument between coal and renewable energy sources, which in the medium term will help to significantly reduce the emissions of economies and make the energy transition financially viable for them.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first like to thank mr tobé, chair of the committee on development (deve), very much for his excellent work in this area. mr tobé, i would also like to thank you for your great personal commitment as chair of the committee on development. you mentioned the sustainable development goals - and we only have a decade to deliver on them - and facing a resource gap that will grow with the impact of the covid—19 pandemic. so we need to be more determined than ever to ensure that development is effective, and that we have development effectiveness. this is about delivering more and delivering better. the commission is, and has been, a leader on development effectiveness. the team europe approach is a clear demonstration of how the european union and member states could act as one in partner countries and ensure that european cooperation is delivered consistently and coherently, with a greater impact and in line with our fundamental principles. that is why we actively promote and pursue joint programming and joint implementation and will do so increasingly, as suggested in your report, notably by identifying team europe initiatives. the proposed neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument will strengthen our ability to provide coherent and policy—driven cooperation. it streamlines a number of existing external financing instruments into one broad instrument. this simplification reduces the gaps or overlaps between instruments, while at the same time facilitating eu engagement with partners in a more comprehensive way. we also need to influence the behaviour of development partners beyond the eu - donors, international organisations and partner countries - and build partnerships on this issue. team europe will be important here as well. by speaking with a single european voice in international fora and in the governance structures of the un, international financial institutions and other bodies, we will become more influential in promoting effectiveness among multilateralals. finally, the commission remains determined to improve the transparency and accountability of our external action. commissioner urpilainen has been very clear about this commitment from the very start of this new commission. having clear and agreed targets on which to report is crucial if we wish to contribute to a better world. it is also essential for continued public support for our endeavours. the role of the european parliament in this process is crucial. madam president, dear tomas, thank you again for the recommendations of this report. i know that the parliament will work with the commission to improve effectiveness in the area of development. this is key.
the case is closed. the amendments will be voted on tomorrow, tuesday, 24 november 2020, and the final vote will be delivered on wednesday, 25 november 2020. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. it is now common knowledge that the eu, together with its member states, is the world's largest donor to development. in 2019, the union and its member states spent eur 75,2 billion on development cooperation, representing 55,2% of global development cooperation aid. unfortunately, this huge amount of money often doesn't reach the communities that really need it, and the efficiency of its use is far from what we expect. in the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus, it is even more important that we can use the available resources in the most efficient way possible, directly. it is a criminal omission that, while people in need are waiting in vain for help from the union in their homeland, the european commission, in the sign of extreme impartiality, has still not allowed local churches and faith-based organisations to participate in eu development and humanitarian aid. the report, initiated by the people's party, also draws attention to this failure, calling on the commission to take account of reliable church organisations and involve them in the implementation of eu development projects. we need to recognize that in africa and the middle east, churches are the social network through which we can most effectively help those in need locally, to create conditions of life that are worthy of humanity and to contribute to the sustainable development of their own communities.
in writing. the european union is the largest donor in the world, but our contribution to poverty reduction and the achievement of the sustainable development goals can be even greater if we improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the aid we provide. the overarching aim of development aid is to make a real difference to the quality of life in a community. providing resources that, even if they do not reach the needy directly, are intended to translate into the lives of the poorest. the covid-19 pandemic has led to a setback in progress towards the sdgs. with population growth and economic stagnation, hunger is becoming more common, and the effects of climate change are hitting the most vulnerable. it is estimated that by 2030, 30 million young africans will enter the labour market each year. these challenges require urgent action, but they do not have to be met by new measures if we implement effective aid mechanisms, fight corruption and coordinate and coherently develop actions. the report by mr tobé, which we have adopted, contains a list of practical recommendations for the commission and the member states which will make aid actions effective. i regret that the draft report has omitted the harmful implications of development aid tying. i believe that conditionality in development aid in the areas of migration and border controls is contrary to the key principles of development effectiveness.
the next item is the report by mr geoffroy didier, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on representative actions to protect the common interests of consumers (09573/1/2020 c9‐0355/2020 2018/0089 ((cod)) (a9-0224/2020). members are informed that no requested speeches or blue card questions will be allowed in the debate during this part-session. i would also point out that the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states.
the rapporteur. madam president, as someone who is familiar with this subject, commissioner reynders, and my colleagues, i am pleased to be starting this debate with you this morning, but above all because i have been able to wage a noble fight for better consumer protection for the last two and a half years. why was this directive created? scandals as big as dieselgate and the unjustified cancellation of flights by ryanair had convinced the european commission, as we remember, to legislate, presenting a draft directive. it was april 11, 2018. two and a half years later, after many meetings and negotiations and many compromises and, let us say, twists and turns, here we are all together today in a position to offer a new, concrete right to european citizens: the right to associate themselves to obtain redress if they suffer damage as a result of the illegal practice of a multinational. until now, we knew that, when faced with airlines, large banks or large industrial companies, a consumer alone would not take legal action, because legal action is a long, costly and uncertain process. until now, these class actions were only possible in some european countries: about 10 states did not have them and, above all, it was impossible to bring an action in another country and thus join other european consumers. with this european-wide collective action, we are therefore proposing a change in ambition and a change in dimension to all citizens of the european union. this result is the result of long struggles to get each political group to agree to step out of its ideological comfort zone. everyone understood that we all had a lot to gain from finding a balanced solution which would both be more protective of consumers and, i repeat, sufficiently safe for the life of businesses, which need it. nothing was gained in advance, because many preconceived ideas were conveyed and dictated by seemingly contradictory and often traditional interests which had to be accepted to be pushed in the face of new requirements. i would like to thank each political group, without exception, for finding the way to unity and reaching a solution which, i say, parliament can be proud of. it is precisely this balance that we have also been able to impose at the trilogue meetings and which ultimately gives all its strength to this reform. everyone wins, the consumer first. the full compensation will be paid to him, unlike the deviations of the american system, which we did not want. whether it is the user of a washing machine, a financial product, a website or an airline, these class actions will enable every european consumer who has been harmed to be better defended, better compensated and ultimately better protected. companies also benefit: they will be protected from abusive or defamatory delaying actions by a significant number of conditions that we have required and which will guarantee the transparency of funding and the absence of conflicts of interest of qualified entities. for example, hedge funds and law firms will not be able to bring legal proceedings and be parties to legal proceedings themselves, as only authorised and recognised consumer associations will be able to do so. europe is finally winning, at a time when people are accusing the european union, sometimes rightly, of imposing many standards and constraints. it shows that it is able to adapt to new needs and, above all, that it is able to offer new rights to citizens. this is economic progress, legal progress, but above all political progress which we must all embrace and which we can all claim. i would like to thank the european commission, and in particular commissioner reynders, but also all his teams who have worked so hard. i would like to thank the council, and in particular the croatian presidency, with whom we have concluded negotiations, my colleagues in parliament, the fictitious rapporteurs, including you, heidi hautala, the teams of the committee on legal affairs and the various political groups, both at members' and staff level, for their intensive and constant collaboration on this matter. because if you adopt it tonight, i hope, by the largest possible majority, this reform will become an important reform of this mandate, but above all a strong added value of europe in the daily lives of its citizens.
the rapporteur of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. madam president, first of all, let me thank both the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs and the entire negotiating team of the european parliament. although i have not really hidden my disappointment with the results since the end of the trilogy, the fact remains that after years of being trampled, we will finally have some, albeit limited, collective consumer protection tool. we may not like the so-called division between domestic and crossborder disputes or the long transposition deadline, but we need to take the result as a first step. when the dieselgate broke, we had nothing. we are currently experiencing the worst pandemic in at least a century, and a new tool is sure to come in handy. virtually every day, the pages of newspapers are filled with reports of non-refunds to customers for cancelled flights due to epidemiological measures or fraudulent sales of substandard protective equipment. i hope that precisely at this moment of daily massive consumer rights violations the value of what we have negotiated here will be shown. i thank you for your cooperation and hope that the proposed directive will be adopted smoothly and transposed swiftly in the member states.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for the opportunity this morning to discuss the directive on representative actions. i would first of all like to thank mr geoffroy didier and the non-existent rapporteurs of the committee on legal affairs, but also all the actors involved in the european parliament, in particular the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, for their work during the interinstitutional negotiations, especially as the work was carried out under difficult conditions during the croatian presidency in view of the lockdown. the representative actions directive is the european union's operational response to violations of consumer rights. the latter are often helpless against certain professionals who resort to illegal business practices. we all have dieselgate in our minds, to name just one example. the situation created by the covid-19 pandemic has further highlighted the difficulties faced by consumers who wish to assert their rights. i am thinking here of the mass cancellations of flights and package tours without respect for the right to reimbursement: we spoke about this again last night during our debates on the consumer agenda and on mr david cormand's report. the adoption of this directive is therefore more necessary than ever. it will enable all european consumers to have at their disposal, finally, this powerful tool for protecting their rights, which is the collective redress. the text agreed by the co-legislators is balanced, whether it concerns the operation of the system, the control of the financing of representative actions to avoid conflicts of interest, support for qualified entities to ensure the efficiency of the procedure or the various guarantees linked to the cost of the representative action in compensation. the scope of the text is sufficiently broad to cover violations of consumer rights in a wide variety of areas, far beyond the traditional scope of consumer protection. these include energy, telecommunications, data protection, financial services and medical devices. the procedural arrangements provided for are such as to ensure the effectiveness of the mechanism, while respecting the procedural autonomy of the member states. the directive also provides important safeguards for professionals at all levels of the procedure. the text thus ensures that their right of defence is respected and the risk of unfair litigation is avoided. i would like to thank the european parliament again for its strong commitment to consumers throughout this process. we can welcome this great success, which will help european consumers to assert their rights in an effective way.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council. it's really respectable. but, ladies and gentlemen, the result is not at all what we discussed yesterday. since this is not maximum harmonisation, this tool will provide 27 different solutions and i cannot congratulate myself on this, commissioner. i always say it's not just your fault, it's the content that's not good enough. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would like to lead. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the european parliament could also not stand against it permanently. however, the objectives which we had set out at the beginning also on the commission's side , that we would create a uniform european model to which all the courts of the member states, to which all the legal systems of the member states belong in a uniform manner, have not been achieved. and insofern, herr kommissar, are all the beautiful words too old. it will not be possible for them, even with the best will and the greatest effort, to move the 27 member state governments towards a unified solution. it will simply not be possible, and it will lead to smaller member states such as malta or cyprus naturally encouraging the creation of american offices, if they are allowed to settle there, naturally encouraging the creation of such offices through cheap tax tricks. it will lead to certain procedural issues being regulated differently in the member states, and it will lead precisely to the confusion in europe which we have always wanted to avoid and which already exists in the usa today, and all the costs which in the end consumers have to bear and not companies. therefore i believe, with all respect for the really difficult work, that unfortunately the great goal, which we had, was not reached.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, union is strength: this adage is particularly true in consumer law. when consumers are victimized by a big company, they often feel helpless to assert their rights. this directive aims to help them obtain justice by providing them with a european collective action mechanism. the directive requires each member state to designate qualified non-profit-making bodies which will be responsible for bringing legal proceedings before national courts on behalf of consumers who have suffered harm. these qualified entities will therefore have the merit of breaking the loneliness of consumers by bringing them together in collective actions, thus transforming their initial weakness into strength. the directive is flexible in that it allows each state to choose both associations and public bodies. in addition, it respects national collective action systems where they already exist, as is the case in france since the law of 17 march 2014. if successful, the class action will oblige the company to offer the consumers who have been injured the most appropriate form of compensation: compensation, repair, replacement, price reduction, termination of the contract or refund of the price paid. this new mechanism is therefore a major step forward for consumer protection, as it will make it possible to repair, more effectively than today, the serial damage caused by large companies such as that caused by volkswagen in the dieselgate scandal.
i have to say, madam president, five years ago, a historic environmental and consumer scandal came to light. volkswagen had installed multi-million dollar fraud software in their cars to make it look like the cars were more environmentally friendly than they actually were. i mention this case now because in many ways it is the backdrop for the legislation we are about to adopt. the dieselgate scandal was a scandal in itself, but it also made it clear that we had a hole in the european union's legal system. consumers were not able to bring a collective action in germany but had to do so nationally in their own countries. of course, this should not be the case. the single market must not only benefit businesses, it must also benefit consumers. there is a need to ensure effective legal protection when companies cheat. i am therefore also pleased that an agreement on collective action for european consumers has been reached. the more consumers who stand together behind a lawsuit, the stronger they will be in court. not everything in this agreement is perfect, but i think it is important to be happy about it, and i would like to emphasize two things. one is that it is good that the principle of the loser pays has finally been introduced. large class action lawsuits are often very expensive and therefore it is only reasonable that the losing party should pay. secondly, i am very pleased that we are going to have a european consumer ombudsman. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not discriminated against. i do not think that this will necessarily prevent a new dieselgate scandal, but it will give consumers better opportunities to defend their rights collectively in the event of being let down by companies again. so i support the legislation, even if there are a few weaknesses in it.
i have to say, madam president, the system of collective actions is not a system historically rooted in european law. the system comes from the anglican case law, as we know. in europe, where roman law has been adopted, there is therefore - at least in continental europe - nowhere a similar legal system. as a lawyer, of course, you are very skeptical about this. of course, it is not known whether this can also result in a meaningful integration at the end of the day and at the end of this implementation. but as far as the matter of collective actions is concerned, i can say for myself that i think it is quite sensible to incorporate them, because it is primarily in the interests of the consumer. we have a very balanced situation here. on the one hand we have consumers, whose market power is rather small, and on the other hand large companies, which have great market power, and therefore, of course, sufficient capital to fight any legal disputes. i therefore think that this should be implemented. the optin system is important, which means that a complaint can only be lodged if the person concerned has a mandate to do so.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is good news that we are discussing today the completion of the directive on representative actions and the possibility of collective redress for consumers in all member states. the adoption of this law is important and is expected by thousands of union citizens, as the experience of recent years shows that collective infringements of consumer rights continue to occur in many member states, mainly through misleading, aggressive marketing or other unlawful commercial practices. in poland, where i am a member of parliament, there has been a recent case of mass consumer rights violations involving the unfair granting of mortgage loans indexed to foreign currency or the frequent practice of selling products of inferior quality. these operations have affected thousands of citizens and have often been the cause of human tragedy and misery. in this context, i believe that the european parliament should strongly support the solutions provided for in this directive, as they will make a significant contribution to improving the level of protection of consumer rights. they will also ensure the efficiency of the procedures by applying the urgency procedure and avoid a situation where high legal costs could become an obstacle to collective enforcement of consumer rights.
mr. chairman, please! i will consistently debunk the lie that was found in this report about the alleged lgbt-free zones that exist in poland. well, there's no such thing as a zone. i want to tell you that all that exists is a declaration by a few local governments about the affirmation of the traditional family model, an affirmation exactly as one of the founding fathers of the european union saw it, or as the polish constitution sees it. since when is that a forbidden view? on the contrary, what do the treaties say? article 3 of the treaty says that the european union respects its cultural diversity. how long has this point been down? second, the declaration on the charter of fundamental rights annexed to the treaties states: the charter does not in any way prejudice the rights of member states to legislate in matters of public morality or family law. how long has this fragment been out of order? in your view, the rule of law you mention in this report is to break treaties where you do not like the wording of those treaties. this is not rule of law, this is rule of law breaking.
mr president, let's talk about the basic rights. today in spain the president of the parliament of catalonia is serving an eleven year prison sentence for allowing a parliamentary debate. members of the catalan government - of which i was a member - are serving ten years or more in prison, up to thirteen, for having organised a referendum. leaders of the main civil society organizations serve nine years in prison for participating in a peaceful demonstration. yes, some of the rights mentioned in this report are being seriously violated in spain today. and what are some in this parliament doing about it? censorship, the deletion of the sentence in the explanatory statement of this report denouncing this reality. and what do they want? hide the truth? they expect us to spend all day demanding that hungary and poland behave like true states of law, but instead give spain carte blanche to trample on the most fundamental civil political rights? if we give spain carte blanche, we are giving it to everyone, and without a guarantee of civil and political rights, the european project is finished.
mr. chairman, please! tomorrow, as every year on november 25th, we celebrate the international day for the elimination of violence against women. it's a day to remind us of the suffering and harm that women and girls around the world are experiencing. but it's not enough to just remember and lean over this problem once a year. and we say this very clearly in the human rights report we are discussing today. violence against women and domestic violence is something we have to fight every day, every moment, and i want to emphasize that it is a fight for all of us, regardless of gender, religion or tradition. violence against women is wrong and there can be no discussion. the voice of men is still too weak in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, and we are still too few to speak out against it. so from this place, as a man, as a feminist and as the mep responsible for the decision on the accession of the entire european union to the istanbul convention against violence, i would like to appeal: let's join this fight, all of us, without exception, now. and to the right-wing fundamentalists and their absurd narrative of gender ideology, i would like to say that in an open and democratic society, there is no place for the justification of violence by tradition or religion, as you do. there's no room for pseudo-scientific gibberish to explain the inferior treatment of women. there are more people who love equality and freedom. you can't win with us, you can't do it.
mr. chairman, please! many great words are spoken in this house, words that would seem important and necessary. issues such as women's rights, the rights of religious, ethnic and national minorities, and the fight against violence against the weakest are and should be the priorities of the european parliament, but listening to the emotional and exalted speeches of the representatives of the left in the chamber, i have the impression that important issues are today becoming ideological weapons, a kind of verbal baton to try to model a new and wonderful world. the huxley utopia is now used by many members of this parliament, including the european commission, as a pretext for describing certain countries or governments as a kind of savage, who, like huxley's novel, must accept your ideological fabrications or be punished. countries like poland and hungary have experienced decades of communist benevolence, communist oppression. and today the ideological heirs of those communists are teaching and threatening our countries in the name of a new ideology. there was talk of a right-wing delirium over arguments coming from the left. well, i can quote one of the fathers... (the chairman withdrew the speaker)
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! if we want a world that is more peaceful, a world that is more social, a world that is more sustainable, better for people and better for this planet, mr vice-president, then the reform of trade policy that you have undertaken is central. but also the key point is that we have to define where we stand. we are no longer at the level of declarations of intent, but at the level of binding renewals. yes, we need the sustainability chapter, and it's loaded with sanctions. yes, we need the duty of care as a horizontal obligation so that human rights can be enforced. yes, we need gender equality, the promotion of women in international trade relations, because only then can we establish justice on this globe. we want to work with you, mr. vice president. but it also means that the european parliament will have a new role in the debate and adoption of the mandate. we look forward to a good cooperation good luck!
mr president, the concept of open strategic autonomy on which the review of trade policy is based is one of those concepts which is already beginning to become normal. the chaos of sanitation shortages during the worst of the pandemic has left us knocked out and out of play. its global impact is now leading us to redefine and rethink various issues, such as the concept of strategic sectors and reserves or the european union's dependence on global value chains. the european union needs a change of mindset to act as a geopolitical power. it needs to define its objectives and act strategically and outside of those trade and technology disputes between the united states and china. all aspects of open strategic autonomy must lead to a reduction in the european union's vulnerability and dependence and ultimately to an improvement in the competitive position of its industry, including the agricultural and fisheries sectors, and, of course, to a decisive approach to digital sovereignty. the question is whether we have the necessary capacities and instruments to do so, because trade policy can no longer be thought of in isolation. but let us not forget one thing: the line between protectionism and achieving strategic autonomy is very thin. we have to be very careful not to cross it. fortunately, in international trade, the european union speaks with one voice and has enormous influence. let's make the most of it.
president. - mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the debate. it must be done today, not tomorrow or any day after. for example, the mercosur negotiating mandate has ignored new insights such as the paris climate agreement, the un sustainable development goals and the ilo standards that enshrine workers' rights for two decades. they should be binding in all trade agreements in the chapters on trade and sustainable development. and they need to be enforceable, with sanctions if countries don't comply. we have heard enough vague promises of improvement from the commission, including for example on the progress of the multilateral investment court. but in the end, it's all about what's written in black and white. so we have to choose climate, we have to choose sustainability, and we have to choose workers in the trade agreements.
mr president, trade is not the same as it was 20 years ago. the world has changed and we have new issues on our plate, but not every problem can be solved by trade. we see a growing appetite in europe to address every problem through trade agreements. we cannot, however, overload the boat or it will sink. one area that needs attention though is digitalisation. we need to ingrain digital into the dna of our trade policy. we must have digital chapters in all our new trade agreements. another priority must be renewing the transatlantic partnership to tackle global trade challenges. our partner is finally back in the game so we should work on improving the wto and on countering the growing power of our foreign competitors. the new asia-pacific agreement is a stark reminder that it’s already happening: that influence is moving eastward. we need to act now if we want to continue to lead and set standards globally. to achieve this, let’s re-engage with the usa as a bilateral partner and pick up more ambitious trade negotiations beyond trump-era mini-deals. it’s time for a real trade agreement with our number one partner.
mr president, fellow members of the house of representatives, as an export-oriented region, it is of paramount importance for us to be able to trade with our partners in a freer and more regulated way. if we place excessive demands on them that are not directly related to trade, we will greatly reduce the number of people who will be willing to sit down at the negotiating table with us. and if we continue to pursue our proselytizing ambitions, the world will pass us by. at the same time, we rightly expect our partners to provide our companies with a level playing field, for example in the area of state aid. consider this: in the next ten years, 85 percent of the world's gdp growth will come from outside the union. last week, 15 countries in asia and the pacific, including china, signed the regional comprehensive economic partnership agreement. the world's largest free trade area is born with 2.2 billion consumers and a $26 trillion market. the union can do two things. it will make full use of existing free trade agreements and speed up the negotiation of new ones, helping our companies to access the market without any ideological bias. the post-covid crisis has shaken many european companies, especially smes. our job now is to reduce their burdens, not to put new ones on their shoulders, like a mandatory code of conduct, "due diligence". we need a growth-friendly business environment where companies can create new jobs. it's the only way we're gonna come out of this as winners. i would urge the liberal members of the house on the left, who always talk about moral high ground, not to be the wheelchair of european competitiveness.
mr president, the trade policy review needs to promote green and digital transformations, social aspects and human rights. for the green transition we need to promote innovations in green technologies by making it a priority to reduce tariff and non-tariff barriers in the wto by pushing for the resumption of the negotiation on the environmental good agreement and we need to do the same in the bilateral agreements. to support the digital transformation we need to open and we need to regulate international digital markets. i do prefer good rules over protectionism. we need new trade agreements covering digital rules and market access, including the new wto e-commerce agreement. we need close cooperation with our like-minded trading partners on standards like future technologies such as ai. europe’s digital economy needs digital exchange of ideas with the rest of the world. unjustified data localisation practices and other forms of technical protectionism are increasing and risk overly fragmenting the world economy. it seems to fit well for the eu to take an active role in developing together rules and standards to reflect important values.
mr president, this revision is the balance, or should be the balance, between a union open to trade and investment and a union which protects people, businesses and consumers, based on fair rules for all. as in other european policies, it is time to draw conclusions from this pandemic crisis and to give effective answers to what citizens are longing for, in line, of course, with the major priorities we have set in the union in the areas of sustainability, climate change, the digital economy and security. we are still very much dependent on third countries, particularly in health, energy and technological matters. this is therefore the time to work on mitigating the risks of future crises, particularly in health. portugal and the outermost regions can benefit from fairer competition from their companies, with more competitive products with added value. this is the time for the union to safeguard the outermost regions in free trade agreements. we will therefore work to ensure that this review establishes the improvement of safeguard clauses, stabilisation mechanisms and also financial compensation mechanisms. this is our duty and this is what we are going to do for portugal and its outermost regions.
mr. chairman, please! the eu's trade policy will soon be dominated by a border carbon tax, a customs duty on high-carbon products imported into the union from third countries. the idea of a cap-and-trade carbon tax is very good. if we are putting ambitious emissions reduction targets on the eu's mining and quarrying industry, we cannot allow it to face unfair competition from those third countries that are not particularly concerned about climate issues. this is a very important part of a just energy transition. the coal tax is to become an additional source of own revenue for the european union, from which we will finance the multiannual budgets and the european reconstruction fund. and that's a substantial source. it is estimated to generate eur 14 billion per year. we therefore await the commission's legislative proposal on this tax as soon as possible, while at the same time hoping that the countries threatening to legislate on the eu budget will come to their senses, because without a decision on own resources there will also be no border carbon tax.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate shows us that the historical conflicts between the two concepts of cyprus' situation and status are still relevant: the concept of enosis and taksim is applied today by the method of facts. today, cyprus, a member state of the european union, is divided by a border that resembles the border between north and south korea, and the capital of cyprus, nicosia, is the only capital in the world -- i emphasize -- that has been divided by a wall since the fall of the berlin wall. warsaw, known before 1974 as the copacabana of the mediterranean, is a beautiful city, but today it is a ghost town. we must do everything to ensure that this dispute is resolved peacefully in accordance with the un security council resolution and that the rights of the people of this beautiful city, who were expelled more than 46 years ago, are fairly compensated. fair means returning the rightful owners to the rightful owners.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. in the summer of last year, under the auspices of american diplomacy, israel signed agreements normalizing relations with the emirates, bahrain, and there are agreements in the pipeline with sudan, oman, the comoros, djibouti, mauritania, and perhaps even saudi arabia. this is accompanied by economic agreements on aviation cooperation with several countries. the implications are clear: the israeli-palestinian conflict is no longer the main conflict seen as the source of all instability, all conflicts in the middle east and the gulf. it seems that at least some of the arab states are no longer hostages to the palestinian cause. can we not be held hostage to this too? after all, the palestinians were offered half of palestine in 1948 and have systematically rejected the various agreements since then. the abraham accords are a success of american and israeli diplomacy. we have heard mr borrell's words of encouragement, but where is the action of the european union, where is the geopolitical commission? we are part of a quartet, but what role does the commission play now? what are we initiating in the middle east? how do we encourage the palestinians to rejoin the agreement or even negotiate with israel? will we talk to the americans, the new administration, to keep these agreements, or even extend them?
mr. postle, what are you doing? please, please! mr. postle, you violated the rules. please read the rules. the use of posters and the display of posters in the chamber shall be prohibited. i'm calling your attention to that.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. many of you spoke of solidarity, of the rule of law, of the principles that should be applied in the european union, because they were the foundation of our community. but it is the european parliament, it is you who are proposing to break these rules. there is no link in the treaties between the european funds or the european budget, or the disbursement of these funds, and the rule of law. it is an attempt by the majority in this parliament to impose rules which are not written in the treaties, which are not in force, which the european union has never discussed and which it has not adopted, so if you are talking about the rule of law, you must answer the question whether you are not breaking that rule of law at this moment. poland, my country, was often mentioned here, and i must tell you that the rule of law is perfect in poland. in democratic elections, the poles decided to elect a party, my party, law and justice, which formed a government and consistently implements the program to which we polish citizens committed ourselves. the polish government cares about the interests of poland and the interests of poles, because that is its role and it was obliged to do so in democratic elections. and here i am trying to convince everyone in this room that the july agreement was not what it was, because the rule of law clause, or the discussion that was going on at the time, was going in a completely different direction, and you know that very well. we cannot arbitrarily impose the will of a majority on a minority simply because a country representing the majority in the european parliament here believes that what is good for you is good for the european union - it is not. the european union is made up of 27 countries, 27 sensitivities, 27 nations, 27 economies, and our duty, because that is what the treaties commit us to and that is what the idea on which the european union is built commits us to, is solidarity, to take into account the interests of all the member states and all europeans and to protect the interests of all the people of the european union and to look after their interests.
madam president! respect, solidarity, pragmatism are the three conditions for a serious discussion about money for citizens, for a way out of the crisis and for a serious discussion about climate law, not blackmail, not emotion, not political obsession and ideological hysteria, because that is what you are presenting today in the european parliament. we need to talk about climate law with respect, with responsibility to the citizens. because the european parliament did not listen to what the council said. he broke all the established rules, like the new 2030 target. the council says 55%, the environment agency says 40% is impossible, parliament says 60%. and when we talk about solidarity, we also talk about how we can get to zero emissions together. parliament says no, i repeat: solidarity, responsibility, pragmatism, respect for each other.
madam president, i would like to begin by saying, as others have already done here, that the absence of the council from this debate, in which the agenda of the council meeting is being discussed, is an unacceptable insult to this parliament and to european democracy, but i understand the council's embarrassment, because the truth is that the council, with the veto of hungary and poland, is not succeeding in making the financial package for the crisis viable in a way that is consistent with the agreement it has already negotiated with this parliament on the rule of law. but this is a problem which the council itself must solve and it is important that it does so, keeping its word, because the intergovernmental solutions which some people talk about run the risk of solving no problems and creating new problems, including the removal of this parliament. in our countries, we often say that we should not put off until tomorrow what we can do today. the european version of this dictum is: we must not leave to the portuguese presidency what we can solve in the german presidency. the european citizens in the union would not understand any further delays.
madam president, this is going to be a quite crucial summit for the german presidency. this is going to be their last, and basically whether we can judge whether the presidency is going to be a success is going to depend on this last council. there are a lot of issues at the table. we have been back-loading a lot on this last council and i think everyone said it already very clear, it’s the european values that are at stake and the european parliament will not accept any watering down of the deal that has been made before and we will remain on that line. but also on vaccines, if we look at the distribution, now we have to make sure that it will be distributed to all our citizens in a fair and accessible way – very crucial. on brexit, the deal must be fair and not undermining social and environmental standards, also that is at stake during this council. and last but not least, the climate crisis. the world is changing. we have a new president in the united states and next year should be a year of global action. so this year, this december, europe needs to get its own house in order and except the 2030 higher, ambitious climate targets.
madam president! when we fight together against the pandemic, when we fight together against terrorism, when we fight together for a better climate, for an economy, for good trade, then we win in the european union. the problem starts when we forget the treaties, and one of the provisions of article 4 of the treaty says quite clearly that any powers not conferred on the european union belong to the member states. you remember that. the european council in july was aware of this and therefore succeeded, but the european parliament, through a resolution and various statements, destroyed this very good agreement of july. these false resolutions, false information, for example about poland, have destroyed european solidarity. you want to keep doing that. we won't let you. we are not afraid. the false leftist, liberal prophets want to use the false weapon of the rule of law mechanism, which is simply a mechanism of rage against the christian rightist governments. you can see how these fake weapons are already holding back investment in the european union. we're standing there, having a conversation. europe is waiting for the truth and the great values on which it started its activities with such important figures as adenauer, gasperi and schuman.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. to the council: absence is not the answer. we have to ask ourselves: is there really any help left? in the united states, joe biden and kamala harris are winning the effort to bridge the divide in the united states and the world. and in the european union, the mini-trumps are blocking the biggest investment programme against corona and in our common future for a more independent, greener, more digital, more democratic, more credible, stronger european union. is there anything else we can do? the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. we will not be blackmailed! not from the inside, not from the outside. hungary, or rather the behaviour of the leaders of hungary and poland, is un-european, it is undemocratic, it is unacceptable, it is directed against the future of europe and above all against its own people. i ask the council: do you finally realise that unanimity only helps the nationalists, populists and blackmailers and hurts europe? give up this instrument, pool the decision-making process, create a directly elected senate, free yourself from hostage and ensure a summit that decides what we have negotiated, that decides what we have decided - not just on the rule of law mechanism, not just on investments in the future, but also on meeting our climate goals through the climate target of 60%, at least 55% by 2030. do what you have to do!
madam president, the european council meeting will be a decisive day where europe will set the bar in its climate efforts, and we expect nothing less than that it contains a clear and progressive commitment on a revised eu climate target for 2030. it is high time that the member states unite on a progressive target so that the european parliament and the council, as union legislators, can have proper negotiations on the necessary updates in the union climate effort accordingly. the european parliament has already decided on revised eu 2030 target at 60% emission reduction compared to 1990. as the rapporteur from the european parliament on climate law, i urge the member states to do the same, to be constructive, listen to the citizens, listen to the science and be responsible, ensure that the european council will agree on a sufficiently progressive union climate target.
madam president! president von der leyen, just before leaving this chamber, recalled the famous compromise of 21 july of this year. indeed, the prime ministers of the 27 member countries agreed on a multiannual budget, a reconstruction fund with all its instruments. they also agreed on a rule of law mechanism, but understood as protecting the financial interests of the european union. unfortunately, the parliamentary majority and the german presidency on november 5th brutally broke this agreement. now you're here calling countries that point out that this agreement has been broken blackmailers. it's curious. two eu institutions have pointed out that what you have prepared is in breach of the treaties. the european court of auditors has written that clear and detailed criteria are needed for this mechanism. for two years the commission did not prepare these criteria. finally, the council's legal services write that circumventing article 7 is a breach of the treaties. you're going to have to take it to the next level. how can you break the eu treaties and try to create a mechanism to uphold the rule of law in the member states? it's curious.
mr president, it is becoming clear to everyone, i hope, that there is a very strong link between the european green deal and european trade policy. the objectives, the ambitious objectives, which we set for our internal policy, we must translate into trade policy. what we preach in our own home, we must preach in the rest of the world. and in that context, i really need something from the heart. we have been working very hard today on vaccines and testing - with great success - and i think it was our commission president, mrs von der leyen, who said that europe will only be safe if the whole world is safe and therefore has access to a vaccine. and so i would like to have an explanation from the commission and the council as to why we are opposing in the world trade organisation, where there is an initiative by a number of countries to introduce a derogation temporarily, during the pandemic to ensure that there can be duty-free production for example of a vaccine, because that is going to be a very big problem. i would like to know why we are opposed to this. what are the reasons? and why aren't we negotiating? because europe will only be safe when the whole world is safe.
madam president! it is characteristic that first the german commissioner in 2018 pushes the rule of law regulation, and now the german presidency pushes to end it. the main complaint against poland is the politicized selection of judges. germany, on the other hand, has the most politicized system of selecting judges in europe. it's often the politicians who choose the politicians to be judges. what about poland? the judges continue to have a decisive influence. and you have the audacity to tell the poles that they are breaking the law? i remind you that until today you have not paid a single euro for your previous lessons on the rule of law in poland. how many more examples of your arrogance, which broke european solidarity, do you need to understand that each state has the right to decide what is written in the treaties? you want to talk about the rule of law? there you go. is it legal to negotiate with putin over the heads of europeans on the gas issue? is this the solidarity and rule of law that germany wants to teach all of europe?
madam president, the council meeting we are going to have on 10 and 11 december is decisive in that it is about what is most important, most fundamental in our european union. it is the values of the rule of law, the values of the rule of law, and it is essential that the council is able to send a signal to all european citizens that the values of the rule of law are above any other interest, whether national, regional, party or social. this is the fundamental point and it is very important that the portuguese presidency is also clearly committed to these values and does not return to its position of july, when before the european council in july the portuguese prime minister came to say that the rule of law should not be linked to the recovery fund. it is important that you have changed your position and it is important that you remain true to that position. on the other hand, there is a fundamental point for the european union, which is precisely the agreement with the united kingdom, which is precisely the regulation of brexit. i hope that the united kingdom will give positive signals and if it gives these positive signals, that we will be able to prepare a future relationship which will be fruitful. if that is not possible, then it is essential, indeed essential, that the european union, at one of the most difficult times of its life with the pandemic crisis, should also be able to prepare effective contingency plans for a disorderly brexit. these are the two main concerns in the midst of the one that is the biggest, that is afflicting our citizens today, which is precisely the pandemic and the vaccination phase.
madam president, commissioner, i think we were making good progress in the negotiations on the financial framework, the decision on own resources, the rule of law regulation, and also a reasonable progress in the regulation on recovery that we have to deal with, when we heard the threat from the polish, hungarian and slovenian governments. i would like to say that this threat is not a fundamental threat to the european union, but is, in fact, a threat to its own citizens. citizens who are suffering from the authoritarian and liberal approach of their governments and who may be left without access to the recovery fund, but also without access to new instruments of the multiannual financial framework, such as the just transition fund. so, i think that's an uncredible threat. a threat which must be met with a forceful response from the council, a response from the council supported by this parliament, which also needs the parliamentary groups of the families whose national leaders are behind this threat to take action.
madam president, it’s a pleasure to be with you this morning from dublin. the eu leaders’ summit is an agenda that is a shopping list of pivotal topics for our union. brexit is not on the agenda, which is very much on our minds. thanks again to michel barnier, ursula von der leyen, angela merkel and the german presidency for trying to get a deal done. if the united kingdom meets us halfway, i think that it can be done. we can get the deal done. brexit is, of course, not the only issue. the pandemic is the big challenge as of now. but the news of several successful vaccines is a great ray of hope. it’s a triumph for research, cooperation and indeed eu funding, which isn’t mentioned often enough. it will lead to the biggest rollout of a vaccine ever seen. this must be done carefully, prioritising the most vulnerable. the vaccine will help in the health recovery, but we also need an economic recovery. the eu recovery fund is a great initiative, but we also need a trade and investment policy that is fit to meet the challenges as well. we need to diversify our supply chains, we need more effective risk management tools and we need stockpiling of key products, such as medical equipment. on the climate side, the green deal is our major initiative. we have targets and we have ambition, but targets and ambition are no good unless they are met. so, this time next year, rather than talking about what we should be doing in 2030, 2040 or 2050, i would like to hear what each member state has actually achieved in 2021. the same for the next four years so that, when we finish this term, we can say we have achieved so much and gone so far in reaching our ambition and our targets.
dear chair, 2020 is a year that will long be remembered for the health and economic crisis. however, in recent days, we have received encouraging news of the discovery of a vaccine. i welcome the efforts to make the vaccine available to citizens and especially to high-risk groups as soon as possible. the european union must help make the vaccine available to countries involved in the pre-accession process because the fight against the virus does not end at our borders. as regards the neighbourhood, i expect the eu leaders to adopt a clear common position on turkey at the council. it is unacceptable that we witness almost daily aggressive provocations that defy international law and challenge the territorial integrity of our members. we want a more ambitious approach from the climate council. i am asking all member states to include binding climate neutrality measures by 2050 in their legislation. i certainly expect the summit to confirm the agreement on the multiannual budget. the money of european citizens must not be used for the political agendas of autocratic governments which, through their veto, threaten not only common values but also the economic recovery of the union as a whole.
madam president, the council's agenda for 10 december talks about solidarity in the face of the pandemic, but not a word about solidarity in the face of migration; there is only one mention of migration, when it talks about turkey and the eastern mediterranean. but is the council ignorant of the fact that the most pressing and deadly route at the moment is the migration route to the canary islands, which makes the tragedy we are experiencing in the cayucos crisis between 2004 and 2006 worse? because at that time there was no european asylum support office, no frontex, no asylum and migration fund, no area of freedom, justice and security governed by the mandate of shared responsibility and binding solidarity, no resettlement programmes, which must be reactivated as soon as possible. but in the meantime, of course, the non-solidarists cannot get away with it, either in their refusal to respect the rule of law with all its consequences or in their refusal to show solidarity with the states which maintain the external borders of the european union. commission, council: the canary islands are not a wall, they are spain, they are the european union. and the people rescued at sea and who arrive at the ports of the canary islands are already in the european union and are our common responsibility.
president, poland and hungary want to receive subsidies from the european union, but they refuse to live up to european values, and we find that unacceptable. the european parliament wants to put an end to this and has therefore fortunately succeeded in concluding a historic agreement. it hit orbán and his cronies where it hurts the most: in the wallet. with the heads of government of poland, hungary and slovenia having vetoed the european recovery fund and the multiannual budget, they are jeopardizing the much-needed measures to tackle the coronavirus crisis. it is now up to european leaders to put pressure on their colleagues. this recovery fund has to come. we will not give in to blackmail. every citizen in europe must be able to be sure that his or her rights are guaranteed.
madam president, vice-president šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, at the leaders' summit on 10 december, the european union is faced with an existential dilemma. will he go ahead with sanctions against turkey as he has been warning for months or will he continue the policy of tolerance and appeasement towards erdoğan? turkey did not take advantage of the window of opportunity given to it by the european union to sit at the table of dialogue with greece, but instead continued its aggressive behaviour in the aegean. erdoğan himself flagrantly violated un resolutions by visiting warsaw. turkey is in a constant state of violation of the rule of law. turkey is insulting our values by turning hagia sophia, a world heritage site, into a mosque. turkey is violating the peacekeeping operation to enforce the embargo on libya. turkey is violating and demonstrating its power in nagorno karabakh, violating international law, and ultimately believes that the european union will not act on its warnings. the european union will not be silent. will he succumb to the friendship attack of the last 24 hours, when there are already scenarios that bring erdoğan ready to annex occupied cyprus? will the european union give such a window of opportunity to erdoğan who is being portrayed as an official violator of international law, not only in the eastern mediterranean but also in the caucasus? it is very important to understand this: by postponing decisions on sanctions against turkey, the european union is not only undermining the course of greece and cyprus. the european union is undermining its international standing as an international player. she shoots herself in the legs, and i think that's the biggest damage she can do to herself.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, has given a clear signal that the european union is ready to take action to combat terrorism. but there will also be a conclusion, a preliminary conclusion, of the german presidency. let me say that the conclusion will be: europe has become different, this germany has become different from what it was ten years ago - a europe that helps itself. a europe that supports itself. the reconstruction programme will one day go down in the history books as a turning point towards greater solidarity, fiscal responsibility and a common will to build a more sustainable europe. mr šefčovič, we need this debate to be international. i miss our discussion about what europe's strategic role in the world is. because only by working together, with latin america, with africa and with asia -- and joe biden will be a partner -- can we turn this into the future and build a more just, a more sustainable world. i ask you to put this on the agenda immediately: we will see to it in the commission, in this house, and in the council too!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in preparation for the european council, the european union must, i believe, strengthen its control over sensitive technologies. a recent report by the tactics institute for security and counter terrorism, the uk-based research organization, publicly presents disturbing facts: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. among the individual examples is the uae's infrastructure and internal surveillance program, dread, which has been used to monitor saudi women's rights activists, un diplomats, fifa staff, and political and human rights activists. other examples are the travel project and the karma project. the first helped the uae identify political opposition to the monarchy; the second one developed iphone hacking capabilities. activists, diplomats and rival foreign leaders in the middle east have been targeted with malware spread via phone, email or remote. we have to recognize that many totalitarian regimes use these weapons. some prefer to be part of the western internet ecosystem, engaging directly or by proxy in undermining transparency and privacy, to outline their digital sovereignty while maintaining the economic benefits of connectivity. authoritarian regimes can become so efficient and sophisticated in suppressing opposition with computer technology that they don't have to resort to brutal coercion. they may even appear benign in the eyes of world public opinion. the european union should then deal with the export of knowledge and technology, with strict restrictions, as well as the export of conventional arms. the european union could set a benchmark and regulatory parameters that could be imposed on others. this can be done through strategic planning and in a framework of cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council in december must be decisive in reaching agreement on the multiannual budget and the recovery plan. the european parliament has done its part, the european governments must now do theirs. we cannot risk further delays because of the whims of the sovereignists. the hungarian and polish governments, with their vetoes in response to the rule of law, are also doing damage to their own citizens, who are beginning to realise this and will therefore, we are sure, have to retrace their steps. the european union is not an atm machine and respect for the union's fundamental values cannot remain optional, as has sometimes happened in recent years. i should like to conclude, because we need to get the recovery plan under way as soon as possible, after important actions also in these weeks, i am thinking for example of the many billions from the sure fund to support workers in difficulty, which my country, italy, also obtained. in a difficult situation such as the one we are living in today, we need a europe that is stronger and more united, without uncertainties.
madam president, congratulations on your first time in the presidency of this house. as always, the council is conspicuous by its absence. citizens and businesses need european aid to arrive as soon as possible so that they can get on with their vital projects. if this is not done, the political, economic and, above all, social consequences could be disastrous even for the stability of our democracies. the european union has responded to the pandemic and has reacted quickly and effectively, but the final stretch remains. the commission and parliament have done their job and it is now up to the council to unblock the final pulse between the governments who want to move forward and the governments who want to block the agreement so as not to be obliged to respect the rule of law. i tell these last ones they've got the wrong club. respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law is in the dna of the european union, and this parliament will not back down. the crisis has also once again demonstrated the institutional difficulties facing the union in responding to the major challenges. there can be no veto on such an important issue. the time has come to launch the conference on the future of europe and to change the rules of the game.
madam president! the idea of a reconstruction fund based on own resources and credits borrowed in solidarity by all the member states is an important step towards deepening european integration. it's an unprecedented fact, but in accordance with the principle that an emergency requires an emergency, it's perfectly understandable. the compromise draft regulation linking eu funds to the rule of law means strengthening the values on which our union is built. the budgetary conditionality mechanism is not an attack on the sovereignty of any country. the fact that my country, poland, is a member of the union is a guarantee of its sovereignty, not a threat to its sovereignty. the conditionality mechanism is not aimed at the interests of the member states but at the policies of governments that act against the interests of their own citizens. i hope that in the future all governments will be responsible, mature and understanding in their approach to compromise. this also applies to the polish government.
in writing. during this debate, the european parliament discusses the preparations for the european council of 10 and 11 december 2020. there are many lofty words, appeals to high ideals, calls for the observance of the law. at the same time, in violation of the law and the treaties of the european union, it is blackmailing and trying to force its own beliefs, its own value systems on other countries, especially poland and hungary. there are many false accusations against my country in this institution. poland is regularly attacked, most recently for its lack of free access to abortion, which is called a clear violation of the rule of law. the commissioner for equality, helena dali, said during the debate in the ep that the eu had no competence in relation to abortion rights in a member state. the member states are responsible for the legislation in this area. yet, there is a call in this house to link the budget to the alleged breach of the rule of law, without any legal basis. thousands of people around the world are fighting for their health and lives, while others are struggling to survive the economic impact of covid-19. that's the real threat we should be focusing on. health protection, restoring economic stability, building security mechanisms - these are the challenges we should focus on, both now and at the next european council.
in writing. on 26 november 2020, for the first time, the european parliament, with the unanimous support of the house, called for tough sanctions to be taken against turkey for its infringing behaviour. the resolution also strengthens the rights of cyprus and greece against turkey's aggressive behaviour. we call on the european council to take action and impose strict sanctions against turkey for its illegal actions in famagusta and for its provocative aggression in general. it is time for the eu to demonstrate that it will not tolerate turkey's criminal actions against cyprus, greece and armenia. how many more crimes will the european union tolerate before it finally imposes sanctions on turkey?
in writing. the fight against covid-19, climate change and security will be the main topics of the eu leaders' meeting on 10 and 11 december. it is obvious that the fight against the corona pandemic is still the top priority. several covid-19 vaccine trials are currently in their advanced stages, so it is time to discuss their production and distribution. it is also very important that future vaccines are accepted by the population, that people are convinced of their effectiveness. there is no shortage of misinformation about the coronavirus at the moment. there are a lot of people spreading anti-vaccine rumors that have no scientific basis. such claims are fear-mongering and harmful to public health. that's why it's very important that all misinformation and conspiracy theories are effectively fought. we need to convince eu citizens that they can only get information from reliable sources and that it is always up to date.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council for adoption. because this day, the celebration of the fight against this immense crime against humanity, concerns all of us, concerns all of you, concerns above all men. because it is men who commit violence, it is men who have often been complicit in the name of a supposedly dominant, male-dominated culture, but it is only with them that we can work to make sure that it never happens again. and then each of us, commissioner, either directly or indirectly knows or has suffered violence. if you think about it, this is the thing we have in common the most: we are not sharing the same rights, because there are still huge differences between women in different countries and between men and women. we are not all free to do what we want, because there are irreconcilable differences between women in different countries. we are all victims of violence and then, at a later stage, we are criminalised or judged for it, crying out 'i did it on my own' as is always the case. i would therefore like to address myself, commissioner, especially to those who are the actual or potential perpetrators of this tragedy, which has crossed the entire history of mankind, which has crossed all cultures and all latitudes, and i would like to say to men: "that's enough of that!" i want to tell them enough, let's take that step together that separates barbarism from civilization. finally, commissioner, i would like to say: we are taking it upon ourselves in this house to make every death, every bruise, every tear, every violence inflicted on women pay for it as if it were a debt collected by all of humanity.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, violence against women is one of the most serious violations of human rights, freedom and dignity of women; it crosses borders, continents and economic and social levels. silence has been the greatest accomplice to violence against women and girls throughout the centuries. so the silence and isolation of confinement has caused violence against women to increase. some data tells us that there's been a decrease in complaints, a decrease in court proceedings and protection orders, but violence has increased, because there's been an increase in phone calls to victim hotlines. women and girls in their homes, with their attacker, have called and whispered to us to help them. that is why i think it is important that today, 25 november, we send a very clear message to the victims: the european parliament and the european union are with them, they are not alone. and since we are with them, we here in parliament once again call on the member states which have not ratified the istanbul convention to do so: latvia, lithuania, slovakia, bulgaria, the czech republic and hungary, ratify now! and we say to poland that it cannot withdraw from the only convention, the only international legal instrument we have to fight gender-based violence, because it is the heart of the rule of law, which is precisely where the fundamental rights of victims are found. so, madam commissioner, i hope you will have all the support you need to move forward so that we can in fact fully protect victims with a directive on gender-based violence and include violence in the european crimes which are enshrined in the treaties. and finally, i want the victims who are listening to us to know that this european parliament is always with them, with the victims and against the aggressors, and also against those who are today sheltering and justifying this horrendous crime.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, today, on behalf of the greens/european free alliance, i would like to express solidarity with women experiencing violence. our duty is to stand up for women. violence against women is a violation of fundamental human rights. it is the most drastic form of gender-based discrimination. equality between women and men is one of the fundamental values of the european union. we create smart cities, produce autonomous cars, we fly into space, but at the same time there are women in europe who cannot feel safe in their own homes. they live in fear, they fear for their health and life. many women do not report violence to the police. they are ashamed. they do not trust the state. they hear that these are family matters. the time of covid-19 is special. the scale of domestic violence has increased. there are still countries in the european union that call the fight for women’s rights an ideology. they use tradition, religion and protection of family as an excuse. there are countries in the european union that have still not ratified the convention. we have countries that want to denounce the convention. a year ago, we gave the commission a clear signal. we called on the commission to include violence against women in the catalogue of eu-recognised crimes. a year ago, we called for the ratification of the istanbul convention but 12 months have passed and nothing has happened. we jointly criticised governments that ignore the european parliament’s resolutions, but sometimes the commission does the same thing: it ignores european parliament resolutions. dear colleagues, let me remind you that the president-elect of the european commission promised us all of this over a year ago in strasbourg. while it turned up with nice words, how long will women in the european union wait for equality, safety and the right to dignity? we want just one thing from madam president ursula von der leyen: please keep your promises. it’s about fundamental rights. it’s about the health and life of millions of women.
mr president, i must begin by saying that i am disappointed with the intention of this item on the agenda. the proposers certainly know that the free flow of capital is one of the fundamental freedoms of the alliance, but it's obviously not important to them. as far as i am aware, the investments of the hungarian private companies are, in accordance with european union law, transparent, of a purely commercial and economic nature and cannot constitute government interference in the internal affairs of slovenia or north macedonia. after all, a good portion of the left-wing media, which has an outright monopoly on advertising for public companies, is foreign-owned. so there are problems with the media in slovenia. the vast majority, especially the mainstream media, are left-leaning. the media space in slovenia cannot be said to be balanced and pluralistic. investments in new media can increase media pluralism and the independence of journalists, who today often write under the dictates of advertising cliques and left-wing political elites, who often do not even hide their sympathies with old and surviving communication models. in short, the media sphere is asymmetric. and the left will do anything to keep it that way, because it gives them control of the media space. the slovenian democrats want the ratio to improve, that the 10% share of alternative media that are right-wing oriented to increase. therefore, foreign investment is very welcome in this respect.
mr. president, i have to go. i'm small, i stand on a chair, and i shout a loud, loud thing so you can all hear it. my fellow citizens! this is the beginning of a hungarian children's fairy tale, and it is exactly the right fit for the politically dwarf prime minister of a country that deserves better, who, in addition to his own personal enrichment, is only interested in one thing, to try to appear bigger in the international world than he really is. that's why he doesn't spare money, the money of hungarian taxpayers, to try to buy influence in other european countries. for example, buy media for yourself and your circles in slovenia or north macedonia. there's no misunderstanding between us. the prime minister who is on the road, on the road, from morning to night, talking about the eu interfering in the internal affairs of hungary, does not for a moment cause a problem to interfere in the internal affairs of other eu countries. i ask you that the next time you hear viktor orbán say that national sovereignty is this, and national sovereignty is that, you never forget that there is no deterrent in him when his interests require him to try to interfere in the national sovereignty of another country. and the european union, budapest and brussels have exactly the same task: to order an end to this madness, because it threatens the fundamental values of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for their interventions and for this interesting debate. i will first reply on the comments addressed to the commission. this commission does everything to support an independent, professional and trustworthy media because, more than ever before, we need objective news which will inform citizens about the situation. we have to do it and we are doing everything with the competences we have. concrete steps on the concrete situation is always a matter of a thorough analysis as to whether this is against eu rules and whether we have the instruments to take concrete steps which will address an individual case. you know the system very well. we work on individual cases, which can be addressed by enquiry into infringements – which is not this case – and we can work by adopting new legislation, or proposing new legislation, to address systemic issues. this is what we are doing. we now have the audiovisual media services directive already being transposed into national laws. we are scrutinising whether it is done in full because, if not, we have to launch an infringement against the member state and ask for an improvement in the implementation or application of the european directive in national law. this is now ongoing because this directive came into force this year. we are preparing very thoroughly for the application date of the copyright directive, which will come next year in june. it will be a very important moment in history for strengthening the position of professional journalism because, behind this heavily lobbied piece of legislation – i think you will remember the time when this was in the final stage of adoption – there was a very simple idea, namely that professional journalists have to get paid for their work. this is going to come into force next year in june and the commission is prepared to help with proper implementation in the member states, which will not be possible to circumvent. we have already seen in france that an effort was made by google to find some middle way solution, and we said no. it has to be implemented and applied in full. we are going to adopt the european democracy action plan and the media action plan next week, on 2 december. i will not go into details because of the time limit here, but you will see that in everything we are doing – by the current legislation which is already in application or the rules we are going to adopt – we are trying to strengthen the position of independent media because we need the independent and professional media to be strong and do their job. the character of their job is twofold. one is that they are economic actors. what we see now, in the time of covid, is the more we need professional and objective media, the less money they get. they are in horrible financial distress now in the time of covid. that’s why we recommended to the member states to use the state aid schemes also to help the media as economic players and employers. the second task of the media, and an indispensable role, is that they must remain strong watchdogs of democracy. they must hold us, who are in power, under control. we are also working in this direction. you will see in the european democracy action plan that we will propose several actions to strengthen their position as the watchdogs of democracy. i will always emphasise professional independent trustworthy media. this is what we are speaking about. and why? why are we trying to strengthen the position of the media? because we see clearly that when the media are weak, they are easy targets for political and economic pressure. this is what we see in europe. the trend is worsening. in the summer this year, we published the media pluralism monitor, where we saw this very clearly. a worsening trend of political pressure on the media has increased everywhere in europe. economic pressure, now made more dramatic by the impact of covid, has made the situation of the media very difficult. advertisers have moved to the online sphere and 50% of all advertising money goes to facebook and google in europe. this is the reality. when the media are hungry, then they have no other choice than to take the money from those who want to impose the political agenda. this is what we are witnessing in many cases. so we need to do everything we can – this is for me a systemic measure – to make the media stronger and not to be driven into this financial trap because they of course need to make money doing their job. we have a very vivid dialogue with media organisations because we also want the eu money to help, but of course we cannot pay individual media because we have to respect the independence of the media. i will finish by asking all of us to try to look at things objectively. the eu is, of course, supporting the media, which is also financed by foreign actors when they operate as business players. but when we see that there is a political agenda behind that, then there is something wrong. thank you very much for this debate. i do not believe that this was the last debate about the media. this was a geographically—specific one, but it also revealed the systemic issues we are facing and that we are trying to solve at european union level because we have a limit to systemic functioning solutions, including the increase in transparency of ownership. this is one of the things which we now want to scrutinise in more depth because this is one of the conditions which are already in the audiovisual media services directive, which is now in force.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the right to abortion in poland (2020/2876 ((rsp)). i would remind you that, as in previous debates, there will be no 'catch the eye' procedures or 'blue card' questions in this debate. interventions are planned from the liaison offices in the member states.
member of the commission. – mr president, protecting women’s rights is my mission as commissioner, and also my personal fight, and you know this. you also know – we all do – that high—quality sexual and reproductive health services are essential to women and girls. this includes access to contraception, prevention and treatment of hiv and other sexually—transmitted diseases, and fertility and sex—specific cancers, and access to abortion. from a legal perspective, it is clear that the eu has no competence on abortion rights within a member state. legislation in this area is up to the member state concerned. i will state factually that the recent decision by the polish constitutional tribunal has restricted poland’s abortion law. as you know, in the article 7 procedure launched by the commission in 2017, we raised concerns over the independence and legitimacy of the polish constitutional tribunal. as recalled in the 2020 rule of law report, these concerns have so far not been resolved. in the weeks following the polish constitutional tribunal’s decision, we have seen how many polish citizens have taken to the streets – civil society, women and men protested in poland – and i wholeheartedly hope that these voices are being heard and listened to. strong women’s rights are an asset and an achievement which the whole of europe must be proud of. but progress is hard won and easily lost, and we see this in europe and worldwide. as president von der leyen said: backsliding is not an option for a continent that aims to win the future. so i look forward to working together with you to push forward on women’s rights, and i know that i can count on your support. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner dalli, ladies and gentlemen, we should not be having this debate today. it is totally unacceptable, totally intolerable that in the 21st century, in a member state of the european union, women's rights are being attacked, as is happening today in poland. and in the face of this injustice, this parliament must take to the streets, as men and women do in poland, to demand freedom and women's rights. it is totally unacceptable that a constitutional court, controlled by mr kaczyński's government, wants to attack one of the fundamental principles, which is the freedom of women to decide about our own bodies, to decide about our motherhood. and so the voice of this parliament must be heard as the voice of a society which will not allow a single step back in the fight for equality. because we cannot allow our daughters to have fewer rights than our mothers, and that is what is happening right now in poland. therefore, we social democrats will work to guarantee women's rights and freedoms. i would like to remind you that six years ago today the popular party government in spain tried to amend the abortion law, tried to curtail women's rights. and spanish women took to the streets in spain, just as women took to the streets in france, in italy, in berlin, in many countries of the european union. spanish women stop the law. european women, together, we stop the law. when we are together, we are strong and today we are all with the women in poland in defending their rights, their freedoms. we will not stop for a single minute from insisting that europe cannot allow this attack on the fundamental freedoms of women throughout europe. we're with you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're calling the polish government again. rule of law, freedom, human rights, but in poland there is no rule of law and human rights. there are no free courts, no public media, no lgbt rights, no women's rights. every year we move further away from paris, brussels and berlin. this house may be the last place where you can speak out for women's rights without fear of being hit in the head with a police baton or a tear gas canister. you can take away our rights, you can put us in pain, you can put our health and lives in danger, but you can't take away our voice, because we are in the european union. in poland you brutally suppress the demonstrations, but here in brussels you will not shut us up, because here human rights are fundamental values, and the right to abortion is a human right. we don't want to suffer anymore because of one party, one religion, one ideology. i have a dream that one day women in poland will have the same rights as german, french, lithuanian, czech and all the other women in our community. but we're not going to change that as long as health and every other aspect of human rights is not a full-fledged european union competence. if we become a community of farming, transportation and borders, we'll be gone in a minute. remember, freedom or death. i call on all to support our resolution in its entirety, without compromise.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. let's argue based on facts, not imagination. parliamentarians from various political parties submitted a request to the constitutional tribunal to examine the constitutionality of the law. the court examined the constitutionality of the law, which was signed into law by the former leftist president and passed by the sejm under the leftist government. even former members of the court considered that the court could not have decided otherwise in this case. so today the so-called defenders of the constitution are protesting against not only the decision of the constitutional court, but also the constitution itself. and from the eu's point of view, once again the european parliament, which calls for the rule of law, is unfortunately breaking the rule of law itself. i therefore call for respect for the treaties, because they are the ones that clearly define the scope of the union's activities and the limits of its competences. in accordance with article 168 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the union, the union shall respect the member states in the definition of their health policy and in the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. and the organizers of today's debate want to keep the street protests going at all costs, which in this pandemic, endanger the lives and health of not only the protesters, but everyone who comes into contact with them. the spanish delegate is calling for protests. i would remind you of the protests in spain in march, which caused a great number of deaths in spain. how can you not be ashamed? so the implementation of this leftist agenda will be paid for by a thousand covid-19 illnesses and deaths. and that will be your responsibility as well.
madam president! every woman should have the right to choose according to her values and beliefs. abortion should not be a contraceptive, but if a woman chooses to have an abortion, i, as a human being and a politician, should respect that, because no politician, ladies and gentlemen, can claim to be the conscience of another human being. no politician has the right to force women to be heroes, because that is a form of violence. no politician can force a woman to give birth to a severely damaged fetus and to watch her own child die in pain and suffering, because that is a form of violence. and politicians have a responsibility to create laws and policies that support women who choose to have and raise a child with a severe disability. not having that support, when there's so much talk about values, is a form of violence. the lack of sound, up-to-date, age-appropriate sex education that will help a young person make the right decisions at the right time is a form of violence. failure to protect children from pedophiles or to side with pedophiles rather than with victims is a form of violence. today we are with poles and polish women in the polish streets, because they are protesting against the violation of human rights, the destruction of democracy, the rule of law, against pseudo-education. they want efficient health care, they want to fight the pandemic properly, they want to help entrepreneurs. it's not just an abortion protest anymore, although it started with abortion.
mr. chairman, please! i met mrs. eva not long ago. she told me the story of her daughter, a young woman who had been raped and wanted to have an abortion. she went to several doctors, but none of them wanted to do the procedure. so she did it illegally in the so-called abortion underground, with serious health problems. this is today's poland in the heart of europe in 2020 a hell of a woman. at the end of our meeting, mrs. eva said, "mr. robert, please do everything you can to make sure that no one ever has to go through what my daughter went through". that's why i'm here, that's why we're all here today. you'll never walk alone again. as rapporteur for this resolution, i would like to thank all the groups, all those who support this resolution. but i have a feeling that if abortion were a male thing, we wouldn't have to talk about it here today because it would probably be available at every newsstand. this is a historic moment, and millions of poles are waiting for it. this is the hope that parliament gives today to those who courageously stood up in the streets of polish cities and towns against the so-called ruling of the so-called constitutional court and who, despite the violence of the authorities, the beatings by the police, shout loud and clear: "we want all of life". today we are sending them a clear message: we do not condone violence against women. we don't agree to restrict their rights. there is no such thing as the so-called abortion compromise, but it is the hell of women, once the suffering of our grandmothers and mothers, today of our wives, colleagues and daughters. it's their health, their lives, and their choice.
madam president, nothing, exactly nothing, about what is happening in poland right now can come to us as a surprise. fundamentalists and authoritarians are taking political control of the judiciary, and what is the first thing they do? they take away the rights of women, of lgbtis and others. if we don’t do anything about it, it will continue, so again, commissioner, do not let this happen. this is a responsibility of historic proportions. take it and do something about it. yesterday, with 200 members of parliament from all across europe and from across the political spectrum, we sent a letter again to the commission to say to stand up against these attacks on the rule of law and fundamental rights. and secondly, all my admiration, my love and my solidarity to the brave people who are resisting this in the streets of poland right now. our bodies, our rights in poland and everywhere else. this parliament salutes your strength and resilience. you make all of us proud to be europeans. (applause)
madam president! the right to life is one of the fundamental rights of citizens. in this house, there is a lot of talk about defending values and defending fundamental rights. the most important value is life. today we stand up for him, we stand up for those who cannot defend themselves. poland is a law-abiding country. the most important legal act in poland is the constitution, whose article 38 clearly states that the republic of poland provides every person with legal protection of life. the un convention on the rights of the child also specifically addresses the legal protection of children before and after birth. the way we care for our community is the most important way to show that we are human. we take care of the elderly, we take care of the sick, we don't categorize or divide people into better or worse. a man is a man, and it doesn't change the fact that he's 80, 50 or 15 or about to be born. every human being has a right to respect and protect life in all its stages. it's our moral duty! ladies and gentlemen, if abortion is a woman's right, then where are the rights of the unborn?
madam president, the conservative right wing in poland and across europe and other countries is trying to attack and use women’s bodies – and lgbti persons’ bodies – as a battleground. the attack on abortion rights is one of the most brutal ways to try to control our lives and to control and install patriarchal values in society. and i think, as has been said here, it’s also part of a bigger picture of this conservative right wing project to try to install ever more authoritarian rule. they want to control the courts, the media, civil society, and we have to say stop! women’s lives are on the line here. in poland a very strong movement is opposing this. we see demonstrations, we see mobilisations, and we stand with you. this debate here, the european parliament resolution, is there to stand with you, to hold your back. you will be winners in this. we will all be winners in this, because we will have protected women’s rights, abortion rights, abortion care and rights to control our own lives. so we stand with you. we stand with all the women and men in poland that are fighting for equality and democracy. (applause)
madam president, i would just like to remind all of us that women are human beings, and that’s why women’s rights are human rights. part of human rights are the beijing declaration, the istanbul convention, sexual and reproductive rights, and the right to determine over our own bodies. this is a crucial and indisputable element of human rights, and of the international interpretation of not only rights but international law. i would like to remind you that human rights are part of the rule of law, as you can read from the various interpretations of the commission. that means that it is the duty of the european union to also defend human rights and women’s rights in all of its member states as a part of the rule of law. poland has breached the rule of law, and the latest decision of the constitutional tribunal is clearly against all these principles. what we need to do is to defend the european people, we need to stand beside the european people, we need to stand behind and beside european women, and, dear friends, we need to stand beside the polish women and defend their rights and the rule of law in the european union.
madam president! the constitutional court in poland ruled in favor of protecting life. this is in line with the european union, the council of europe and the un documents, which state that every human being has an inherent right to life. it's a fundamental value of our civilization. the initiator of the resolution says that he is motivated by hope and love, and in the name of that love he wants to kill children in the majesty of the law only in connection with the suspicion of illness or disability. it's not new. bolshevik russia was the first country in the world to legalize abortion. then the law was introduced by nazi germany. hitler also said, "i will personally shoot this idiot who wants to ban abortion in the occupied eastern territories". is that idea being implemented here? eugenics seemed to have been compromised ultimately by the actions of the third reich. unfortunately, today those who do not believe in equality, in this case, are seeking to legally segregate children and believe that they can be killed for various selfish reasons. here we have a clash between the civilization of life and the civilization of death. i hope it doesn't spell the end of european civilization.
madam president! i wanted to make a clear statement on behalf of the european people's party. we are in favour of adopting this resolution, we are signing it, as is the majority of the european parliament. we hear this dramatic cry of polish women and we also see the cry of polish youth, young poles, young poles, students, students who do not agree with the attempt to build an authoritarian ideological state. this is a protest not only against draconian laws that violate the rule of law, but also against restrictions on freedom of speech, media, assembly, association, attempts to harass high school students, the use of police against women, the brutal dispersal of demonstrations. it's not just polish women and those who protest that are not accepting this, it's polish society that is not accepting this. i wanted to say very strongly that this is the experience of my generation too, when we wore the braces, because there was a power that wanted to decide for others. today you have the lightning, it is a symbol of energy, and you will win because the energy of youth always wins, because there is hope in you, because you are europeans, and it is also a symbol of hope for the future of a free european society. freedom always wins.
madam president, dear protesters outside in the streets of poland and elsewhere, your actions matter – not only in poland; all over europe, and therefore a big thank you. die polnische regierung hat die letzten monate alles darauf gesetzt, den polnischen frauen ihr recht auf selbstbestimmung und ihre entscheidungsmacht de facto gänzlich zu nehmen. aber frauen müssen selbst entscheiden können, wann sie schwangerschaftsabbrüche vornehmen. diese fehlentscheidung des sogenannten verfassungsgerichts in polen ist ein angriff auf frauenrechte in ganz europa. die folgen sind jetzt schon klar: das de-facto-verbot führt zu mehr toten frauen, die heimlich unsichere abbrüche vornehmen müssen. und andere länder, wie auch die österreichische regierung, wie wir seit gestern wissen, beginnen nun auch – auf leisen schritten –, diesen angriff auf die gesundheit von frauen zu stärken. im europäischen parlament sind wir deshalb solidarisch mit den vielen polinnen und polen gegen diese rückwärtsgewandte und menschenverachtende politik. frauenrechte sind menschenrechte, und jeden tag, tag für tag, gehören sie aufs neue verteidigt.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the european union was founded on christian values, the foremost of which is the life of every human being, especially the defenceless, his inalienable dignity, his inalienable and unquestionable right to protection. each tiny human being at the moment of conception has its own unique genetic code that determines everything: eye color, intelligence, talents and unique finger lines. this little man is often in the union today, has to clash with the civilization of death. so the ethical standards for protecting the phenomenon of human life cannot be challenged or distorted by any vote, any majority. what we make humanly legal is morally indefensible. st. john paul ii said, "a nation that kills its children is a nation without a future". how sad it must be today where you don't want to hear the laughter of children, where you don't want to see the joy of children, and where older people who can enrich us with their experience and warmth are killed in the name of a false sense of compassion. commissioner, what is europe? i thank the doctors who care about every life today, the lives of premature babies, the lives of all people. thank you to all polish doctors and others.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank you all for this debate. if i were to compress what the majority in this room said in five words, it’s: women’s rights are human rights. and we are certainly on the same page. i want to close this debate by remembering the first woman president of this parliament, simone veil, who envisioned a europe where women’s rights were not questioned, let alone curtailed. this is a vision that we still need to fulfil, and i pay homage to her and her legacy and hope that we can find inspiration in her work at the european level and as french health minister. i thank you.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, thursday, november 26, 2020. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the issue of anti-abortion law has recently heated up the debate in poland. the ruling of the so-called constitutional court, whose impartiality and legality of action are questioned, has caused widespread outrage and spontaneous protests throughout the country. the court's decision of 22 october leads to a near-total ban on abortion, which can be seen as an attack on the fundamental rights of all eu citizens. it also puts poland on the unholy podium of the countries with the most stringent anti-abortion laws in the community and, more importantly, it is contrary to the general opinion of polish society. this attack on the freedom of polish women is doubly outrageous when we realize that it was done for political reasons, in the midst of a pandemic that the polish government is completely unable to cope with. by provoking social opposition, the power-hungry court has put citizens in danger, giving them a deadly choice between freedom and health. in polish tradition, defending women is considered a noble act. when the polish authorities raise their hands against the poles, it is our duty to defend their dignity. therefore, i appeal, first of all, to the european commission we can help, for example, with a financial support mechanism for women who decide to decide on their own bodies and are forced to undergo the procedure outside poland. let us save the citizens of the european union from the hell that the fundamentalist government wants to cook for them!
in writing. an attack on polish women is an attack on all women in europe. polish women, whose government wanted to deny them the right to have an abortion, have a different understanding of what it means to have control over your body. it's a right that should belong to every woman. i support polish women in their fight for abortion rights and admire the unity of the people who are fighting against the authoritarianism of their government. it is unfair that in the 21st century, in the midst of modern europe, we have to return to debates about limiting this right. but it's important that we show as much public support as possible to the thousands of poles and young people who have taken to the streets for their rights. they have succeeded in delaying the implementation of the controversial new abortion regulation for once, but unfortunately it's not over yet. i hope that the polish government will however - and as soon as possible - realise that such political decisions, which are taking the country back to the past, have no place in the modern european union.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon gives legal force to the charter of fundamental rights. the charter has been accepted by all eu countries except the united kingdom and poland, which have reserved the limitation of its protection for their citizens by the provisions of protocol 7, known as the uk protocol. article 1 makes it clear that, for the avoidance of doubt, nothing in title iv of the charter creates rights which can be enforced by judicial means applicable to poland, except where poland has provided for such rights in its national law. article 2: where a provision of the charter relates to national law or practice, it shall apply to poland only to the extent that the rights and principles contained in that provision are recognised by polish law or practice. on the basis of these two articles, poland is sovereign in the matters raised in today's debate. we do not agree to impose on poles how they should act or think in matters where they have their inalienable rights. the constitution of the republic of poland protects every life, the life of the mother, but also the unborn. poles are a wise nation that can solve its own internal problems and does not need pressure from the eu institutions, because that is the only way to see this vote. today's resolution exceeds all democratic standards and its provisions are a call to violate polish and international law.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the pharmaceutical strategy for europe aims to address public health challenges by creating future-proof regulatory solutions and ensuring equal access to medicines for patients. on the one hand, technological and scientific developments contribute to innovative treatment, while on the other hand, the technology itself challenges the regulatory framework and leads to the creation of unintended barriers. we need to make a qualitative change here. we should strengthen access to medicines and ensure that they are equally available without excluding anyone. moreover, the current coronavirus pandemic has further exacerbated the problem of the lack of drug independence of our continent and the high sensitivity of the supply chain. as a co-rapporteur on the current eu4health programme, but also as a co-rapporteur on the report on the shortage of medicines already adopted, i am responsible for the partial shift of production of key substances back to our continent. consideration should be given to financial incentives at eu level to favour the production of active substances and other intermediates here in europe. only by diversifying our suppliers can we increase the safety of our continent's medicines. we also need to consider the appropriate policy for stockpiling medicines in the member states. the complementarity and synergy of the pharmaceutical strategy with the eu4health programme, the cancer plan, the report on drug shortages and the health package currently being presented by the commission will only be truly effective if it is based on respect for the division of competences in health policy. this is why we need to act horizontally at eu level, taking into account the proposals of member states that already have knowledge of the availability of critical medicines in their territory.
mr president, i would like to thank you. all people have the right to good health, quality health care, safe and effective medicines that everyone can afford. it is fundamental to the just welfare society and it must be fundamental to the whole of europe. the corona crisis has shown unequivocally that this is not the case. in the face of the enormous challenge that this pandemic has posed to our member states and our populations, the eu has not always functioned as well as it should and as one might expect. in several member states, people have suffered from a shortage of basic medicines, vital medical devices such as respirators, hand syringes, face masks. it is not worthy of the eu. europe and the member states must learn from these experiences. we must take a new approach to strengthening cooperation in the field of health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. it is therefore good that the commission is now taking this step with this pharmaceutical strategy, and we in the socialist group welcome the commission's proposal. we are particularly pleased with the review of eu legislation on medicines and measures to increase transparency in pricing. this is important. all people in europe should have equal access to high quality, affordable medicines, and we expect concrete tools from the commission here.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for putting forward this comprehensive pharmaceutical strategy. however, i lack a concrete plan to address the shortage of medicines in europe. your strategy only mentions that the problem of drug shortages needs to be mapped. unfortunately, it doesn't get any more specific than that. we'll have to wait until 2022 for new legislation. it's taking me too long! in the netherlands alone, we saw in 2019 that 1,500 resources were not available for a long time. every year, the number of shortages of medicines grows. a year ago you announced that you would be coming up with a pharmaceutical strategy. we in the european parliament have repeatedly indicated that we want to see a solution to the shortage of medicines. why does this strategy not provide that solution now? why do we not demand that certain medicines be produced in the european union, rather than just looking at the price of the medicines? as many as 80% of the pills we take in europe come from asia. can you make sure we have this discussion as soon as possible? because a lot of people need medication now and can't wait another two years.
mr president, commissioner, the strategy is welcome. the covid crisis has highlighted the problems that patients and healthcare professionals have long complained about: lack of access to medicines, high prices and lack of treatment. the commission is making the right points, but i regret that it does not get to the heart of the problem: our dependence on the pharmaceutical industry. and to rebalance this balance of power, several actions are necessary. first, the implementation of group purchases so that no country is disadvantaged. secondly, transparency in relation to the costs of research and development of a medicinal product. the same should apply to the granting of exclusivity conditions. thirdly, public research should be one of the pillars of the european union's action. why not fund university centres to develop centres of competence instead of industry? why not set up a european public centre for the production of active substances to prevent shortages of medicines? this strategy is an opportunity to rethink our approach to medicines and to strengthen the european union by treating medicines not as commercial goods but as basic necessities.
mr. chairman, please! this strategy is very much needed because the coronavirus epidemic has once again shown the unfortunate consequences of the european industrial policy. the eu has been imposing stringent environmental and climate standards for years, causing the industry to flee the eu. pharmaceuticals are also subject to market rules, which is why today 80% of active pharmaceutical ingredients and 40% of finished medicines sold in europe come from china and india. without the precursors being shipped to europe, we're not able to fill the gap. between 2000 and 2018, drug shortages in the european union increased by a factor of 20. the union has not made any breakthroughs in cancer treatment for years, and more than 95% of people with rare diseases seek help outside the european union. we can't find answers to drug-resistant strains of bacteria or a hushed-up epidemic of lyme disease. that is why we need to urgently address the long-standing neglect and, above all, to bring the production of medicines back to europe and to shorten supply chains.
mr. chairman, thank you for this important document, which we strongly supported in parliament, and yes, in parliament we talk about vaccines and about important things. i believe that today we can say that we are one step closer to better managing the system for responding to health crises in the future and i welcome the adoption of the strategy by the european commission. and we congressmen have pointed to the challenges facing our citizens and the pharmaceutical industry in this pandemic. from shortages and prices of medicines to the european union's dependence on third countries and insecure supply chains. the coronavirus pandemic has reminded us that people's health and lives are priceless. so we need to ensure that our citizens have access to an effective, proven, safe and, of course, most importantly, affordable medicine. the pharmaceutical industry should be our partner in dialogue because it is an indispensable actor in meeting the goals we set for protecting human health against cancer, promoting healthy ageing and investing in research and development. the european parliament called for the creation of a common european pharmacy in a resolution on drug shortages in september. i suggest we consider the guidelines and the timeframe for implementing this important proposal. we have successfully organised strategic reserves of protective equipment through resceu and the civil protection mechanism. and i believe that this model can also be used to figure out a way to create drug reserves. in addition, i urge you to make further efforts to ensure uniform price availability of medicines in all member states.
mr. chairman, please. i also thank the commissioner for presenting this very good and necessary strategy for medicines. the corona crisis has shown us and revealed some of the problems that we also knew about. but supply chains are difficult, especially those outside europe, and so we have to do something at european level to ensure that we can access and produce important and necessary medicines either closer to europe or in europe. i'm also glad that the patient is being put in the spotlight. it is absolutely crucial that we do this in our pharmaceutical strategy. that means that we have to make sure that there are cheap medicines, or at least available and cheaper than what we have today, and then we have to make sure that we develop medicines. there are more than 7,000 rare diseases, and we need to do more to make medicine available to these patients, so that they can live with their disease better. and so in conclusion, i would like to say that we still have a huge problem with antibiotic resistance, and that is why we need to make sure that our drug strategy also makes an effort to secure new business models that allow us to develop drugs in areas where we need them, even though there may not be as much business in it. and then there's no doubt that the whole data strategy can hopefully also help the pharmaceutical industry to provide better medicine, maybe with artificial intelligence and so on. so thank you for the strategy, and i look forward to working with you to make it happen.
i declare the first round of voting open. you can and will vote until 11 a.m. the results of this round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the commission statement on the eu pharmaceutical strategy (2020/2878 ((rsp)).
mr president, any pharmaceutical strategy must meet two fundamental requirements. the first requirement: the importance of the public sector, universities and public laboratories in the research and development of vaccines and new medicines, the need to challenge the hegemony of the pharmaceutical multinationals, to ensure the primacy of the public interest over business. covid has made particularly visible the perversity of the prominence given to multinationals in the acquisition of vaccines still in development. public money is used to finance research, to pay for the purchase of vaccines and, finally, to relieve companies of obligations relating to the conditions of supply of products and to alleviate the risks arising from their use. the second requirement is that we must consider national strategies to ensure that each country has sovereignty in this area, that we must recognize the right of each country to produce, and the need to produce, of course, within the framework of the necessary international cooperation in this area. this is particularly important in the case of countries such as portugal, which are very dependent in this area. the right to produce and the pharmaceutical industry cannot be an exclusive right of only a few countries.
mr president, the sustainability of the healthcare sector is more and more challenging. moreover, the covid-19 pandemic has revealed many inefficiencies in our health system and deepened the existing challenges such as shortages. i welcome the proposed eu pharma-strategy. there is a clear and strong signal from the commission to ensure equitable access to medicines in the eu, both for innovative and generics. access is uneven in several member states and sometimes within regions. i also welcome the clear reference to remove excess barriers to generic and biosimilar medicines that is a key milestone also for countries like romania, but not only. a strong strategy is needed for pharmaceuticals, first to address shortages at the level of manufacturing and supply chains, one that will boost the production as well. and secondly to address the lack of innovation and fuel innovation. with regard to rare diseases and cancers, i would like to echo some of my colleagues’ interventions: there are still too many diseases that have no cure and here, commissioner, we should ensure that the reopening of the orphan legislation will still support a robust incentives framework for research and innovation. as regards digitalisation, while i welcome the upcoming proposal on the health data space, i’m wondering if the commission is thinking about introducing digitalisation also at the level of regulatory medicines authorities. thank you so much and congratulations.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we welcome the assumption of a pharmaceutical strategy. the covid-19 crisis has clearly demonstrated that we need community mechanisms to provide europe with effective, safe and affordable medicines, to mention the covid vaccine secured by the union. the pharmaceutical strategy is part of the european union for health and will benefit from the eu4health european health programme. the european parliament has tripled the amount of money proposed by the countries in this programme. this is a priority for the european people. the pandemic is not the time for national, party-state games [noise disturbance] the union budget, measures that can literally save lives. we therefore need regulatory changes and eu support to break down economic barriers and accelerate the introduction of new antibiotics, drugs for rare diseases and cancer. in my region in poland, for example, the świętokrzyskie oncology centre is counting on this, implementing very expensive personalised therapy, the cost of which can be reduced sixfold, because today it costs about 400,000 euros. the union must regain its sovereignty over medicines. we need a strategic approach to drug safety, also reflected in national reimbursement programmes. monet emphasised that the union was developing not in spite of crises but because of them. today, 66% of eu citizens support increasing the union's competence in the area of health. let's use this to secure a european standard of care for all citizens.
i would like to congratulate the commission on the publication of the new european pharmaceutical strategy. the pandemic has raised many issues and raised many questions. one of them is the growing disparity between member states in the quality of healthcare. the new pharmaceutical strategy is a good foundation for the radical changes that lie ahead, but there are aspects that it has not sufficiently identified. for example, by 2050, the world's population will grow to 9 billion. it will be difficult to provide adequate health care if the health professions and their related disciplines and institutions do not work together, and preventive medicine will be extremely important. i think that strategy needs to play a much more important role in this aspect, and that it needs to be more actively involved in developing and promoting healthy lifestyle habits, rather than being focused solely on treating disease. the second aspect concerns the impact of climate change on quality of life and health. loss of biodiversity, air pollution, and global warming are adding to the number of new infectious diseases. ignoring the link between climate change and pandemics would be a dangerous mistake.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that i am not a big fan of widespread government regulation of the economy. in my opinion, markets are far more productive if they are competitive. however, when it comes to critical infrastructure markets, one has to admit that they cannot be left unsupervised. the european market for pharmaceutical products is one such market. the pandemic has proven that it needs more regulation and coordination so that patients receive the best possible access to medicines and medical treatments. for this reason, i welcome the new pharmaceutical strategy, which the commission adopted yesterday. i especially welcome proposals for actions aimed at increasing the accessibility of medicines for the treatment of childhood cancer or rare diseases. this has not been a priority for producers so far. i’m looking forward, and committed, to working with the commission and other actors on the implementation of the strategy in order to achieve higher standards of healthcare and to protect citizens’ well—being.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. europe and the world are fighting covid-19, and this fight has taught us all that we really don't stand a chance against global challenges like covid or other challenges and the new fight we're on the verge of. this is a fight for cancer patients. unfortunately, in the coming months, millions of patients with cancer that is too late to be diagnosed, often advanced, probably metastatic, and sometimes terminal, will be coming to european hospitals, because covid is delaying treatment, delaying diagnosis, delaying care. we must therefore make a strategic decision today, commissioner, to build a system of continuity of supply of cancer medicines. what we need to do today is build a strategic inventory of cancer drugs, critical cancer drugs, that we can use to help patients. the second challenge that we face today, after the covid experience, is to build a robust system to respond to critical and emergency situations. a system of information sharing between governments and joint response in the form of buying medicines and securing equipment must be built up as quickly as possible. these two challenges - the strategic stockpiling of medicines in europe and the emergency response system - are the biggest challenges facing us today, the commissioner and the whole of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. algeria is a country where, like other countries in the maghreb and sahel, young people between the ages of 18 and 30 make up more than 60% of the population. this largest country in africa, an important economic partner of the european union, it is worth mentioning here that about 11% of the gas used in europe comes from algeria, and today it suffers from serious turbulence, lack of rule of law and democracy, massive corruption, a manual economy and huge unemployment among the aforementioned young people. this triggered a wave of protests called hirak, which in 2019 led to the resignation of the current president, and as with the arab spring, social media, especially facebook, has been an ally of the young people. unfortunately, the scope of civil liberties in algeria has been shrinking in recent months. algerian authorities have used the pandemic and the accompanying suspension of protests to increase repression, especially against journalists and bloggers. this trend was symbolized by the sentencing of journalist and reporters without borders contributor khaled drareni to two years in prison on september 15. the harsh punishment has sparked protests from his algerian colleagues and a wave of condemnation from international institutions and the press. of course, these repressions obviously have to be condemned by the european parliament and we have to speak out in support of the persecuted journalists and oppositionists. we must also wish algeria and the algerians swift political and economic stability, for we must remember that algeria is not only our partner in economic relations, but must, i stress, must be our partner in the fight against barbaric islamic terrorism and its accompanying consequences, such as illegal migration. the cost to the states of north africa is too great, and unfortunately, the cost to europe is too great, for its reckless support of the so-called arab spring, which has brought destabilisation, chaos and a flood of islamic terrorism.
member of the commission. – mr president, since the fighting broke out in ethiopia’s tigray region, reports of a high number of casualties, of serious human rights and of serious international humanitarian law violations have been increasing. this is a major concern for the european union and we were saddened by the tragic loss of lives of ethiopian people as a result of this conflict. the danger of a major humanitarian crisis is imminent and an immediate de-escalation is needed. all parties should show restraint and reinforce their calls to avoid incitement to hatred and violence. as commissioner in charge of humanitarian affairs, i have been following closely the situation on the ground. i have been in touch with mark lowcock, the united nations under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs, with filippo grandi, the un high commissioner for refugees, with michelle bachelet, the un high commissioner for human rights, as well as with international non-governmental organisations. in the past few days we have already allocated an initial eur 4 million to accommodate the most urgent humanitarian needs of ethiopian refugees who fled the conflict to neighbouring sudan. sudan is already hosting a substantial number of refugees and internally displaced persons and it is facing a considerable challenge with any new influx of people in need. i will visit sudan next week to show solidarity with the sudanese government that supports the ethiopian refugees and to meet refugees themselves. as high representative borrell recalled at his meeting with deputy prime minister mekonnen of ethiopia on tuesday, the principles of international humanitarian law must be respected. in the conduct of hostilities, civilians and non-civilians have to be distinguished. targeting civilians should be avoided at all costs by all sides. when meeting the ethiopian deputy prime minister myself yesterday, i also recalled the obligation of any party in the conflict, without distinction, to protect civilians, and to ensure their safe and free movement. furthermore, i called for full and unrestricted access for humanitarian aid and humanitarian workers to all areas affected by fighting so that they are able to provide life-saving assistance. all partners of ethiopia and in particular its neighbours should contribute to a cessation of hostilities and to the resolution of political disputes through dialogue in the framework of the constitution of ethiopia. in that regard the initiative by the african union with the appointment of three high-level envoys is welcomed and supported by the european union. political solutions and the search for dialogue are the only viable option for the future of ethiopia. the conflict has further increased inter-ethnic tensions, with reports of ethnically targeted measures, ethnic profiling and discrimination, hate speech and atrocities occurring. jointly with high representative borrell we expressed our deep concerns regarding these allegations. it is imperative that human rights are respected and that where abuses have occurred, they are investigated and those responsible held accountable. in conclusion, in line with the messages passed to deputy prime minister mekonnen, we expect the ethiopian government to show restraint and to avoid further escalation, not to apply ethnically targeted violence or measures. this is a very sensitive issue for the european union. we hold the prime minister to his word that the government is making a distinction between the tigrayan people and the tigrayan people’s liberation front. however, we have reports about blanket measures on the basis of ethnicity. furthermore we expect the government to allow unimpeded humanitarian access and to take all necessary measures to protect civilians, to ensure free access for media, and finally, and very importantly, to look for a political solution, a dialogue, a cessation of hostilities without delay. we encourage them to work with the african union high-level envoys in this respect.
author. – mr president, raman bandarenka was born on 1 august 1989 in minsk. he graduated from the minsk academy of fine arts, worked as a store manager and conducted painting workshops for children. he lived in a block of flats on charviakova street. one evening, a group of masked men appeared and began to tear off the white-red-white ribbons, the symbol of the belarusian opposition. raman found out from the residents’ chats about this accident and wrote ‘i’m leaving, but he never returned home. he died in hospital as a result of having been beaten by unknown perpetrators. he died young. raman was only 31 years old and will never see belarus free and independent. he is the latest victim of lukashenko and his regime. this is not happening in some distant place. this is happening right now, right on our doorstep in the last european dictatorship. these are the real lives of real people. this is a real fight for freedom and dignity. this is another of the european parliament resolutions on belarus in thelast months with concrete calls for action. i have a feeling that there’s a lot of talk, but little walk, from the eu side, commissioner. let us not water it down, commissioner. zyvie belarus! (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my first speaker quoted the words of raman bandarenka, the last words he spoke to his neighbors on the social media. those are the words, i'm leaving. he left and unfortunately never returned to his apartment, murdered by lukashenka's torturers. this young new hero of the future free, democratic belarus is surely going down in history on its most beautiful cards. the situation that we have today with our neighbour, because poland, together with lithuania, is a country outside the european union, but we are neighbours of belarus. today our goal is to do everything possible to ensure that belarus joins the community of democratic, sovereign and independent states. the polish government, the government of prime minister mateusz morawiecki, has prepared a detailed plan for solidarity with belarus. it's a plan aimed primarily at young people. the aid to those who are protesting in the streets of minsk and other belarusian cities today must bear the fruits of what i have already said. belarus will be free, independent, democratic, and sovereign. [in conclusion, the mp said in belarusian, "long live belarus!"]
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, this discussion could be held every week. young people are dying every week, terror is growing, protests are not diminishing. belarus is fighting for its freedom and we must help belarus as soon as possible. there is no time for debate, it is time for action, and fast. we expect the council to make bold and swift decisions. personal sanctions not a dozen people, but several hundred, maybe even several thousand members of this terrorist organization, omon, should be on such lists. economic sanctions are not a time for debate, it's a time to go back to the sanctions of 2012. i also think that the european parliament has decisions to take. we passed a resolution in which the high-level mission was supported by 590 meps. mr. chairman, time to make a decision, time to start investigating the murders. we can do this as parliamentarians. it's time for an office in brussels for the democratic opposition. we have to work with them every day.
mr president, one thing we can do for the people of belarus right now is to bring in the european magnitsky act, a swift sanctions mechanism that should cover not only those involved in repression, but also their families and partners. maybe then they’ll get it. i’m aware that whatever we do will not bring back the life of raman bandarenka nor do i have illusions that the fascist regime will release the prisoner i have adopted, siarhei tsikhanouski, whose crime it was to hope to stand in the presidential election. but what we do and say might give hope to the people of belarus. we in poland remember the hopeless years of martial law in the 1980s but i am convinced that belarus will one day also be free and belarusian representatives will sit here with us in this parliament. žyvie belaruś.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. we are closer to european solidarity after the european council agreement on thursday. it's obviously a big success. in 2021, we will have €185 million more than the budget proposal. we will use this money for transport, humanitarian aid, digital europe and so on. that's good news. so i hope that all these activities will be continued as appropriate. i am concerned, however, that today a lawyer has appeared in the commission and has simply taken over all the findings of last thursday. it turns out that it is not known what was decided at the european council meeting and what the european commission can do. it was even said that if the european commission failed, the european parliament would dismiss it. let's not go that way. the three institutions of the european union must work together, not fight. we have to work together, we have to build this solidarity. the language used today, right after last week's success, is not good language. this is a bad sign, because the member states will again be afraid of being threatened. let us not go down that road, let us build european solidarity, let us rejoice in the agreement.
madam president! inspired by the votes that unfortunately fall from this place, i would like to begin my speech by expressing my special thanks and appreciation to the two prime ministers, viktor orban and mateusz morawiecki, who, despite such votes and even to give up the so-called unanimity, conducted these negotiations in such a way that an agreement was reached. the european union is founded on treaties, and the treaties state that each of the countries that make up the european union has the same value and dignity, whether it's malta - with all the respect and sympathy for this beautiful country - or germany or france. the european union cannot rely on the terror of political correctness of the european left alone. and as we enter the new year, i would like to remind you that in europe we count the years since the birth of jesus christ. europe will be christian or it will not be at all.
mr president, we’ve heard a lot about the rule of law and the values upon which the eu is founded in the past weeks and rightfully so, because those values are the foundation of our cooperation in the european union, and without a strong foundation that cooperation will never be sustainable in the future. and those founding values are therefore captured in our treaties, and they also explicitly include the rights of persons belonging to minorities. europe needs to live up to that promise, especially now when more than a million citizens of the european union have reminded us of this promise through a successful european citizens’ initiative: a great example of democratic participation and commitment. therefore i fully support this initiative – action at european level in support of and in addition to the member states’ policies, with respect for the division of competences, can really make a change in the lives of millions of citizens. so let’s show those citizens that we’ve heard them and let’s get to work for them.
mr. chairman, please! 'united in diversity' is the motto of the european union. that's a beautiful idea. it has many components, one of which is respect and support for ethnic, linguistic and cultural identity. the minority safepack will help to implement and protect communities that for various reasons, including political ones, do not have formal recognition from member states. and that's why i'm standing here: because it's a case of my nationality, silesian, and my first language, silesian. one of the eu's regional languages, spoken by several hundred thousand people. (speaker does not speak an official eu language) europe is strong in its diversity. let's never forget that and never stop fighting for it. we in silesia have been fighting for our language for many, many years. and we're going to win this fight, i guarantee it. thank you very much.
mr president, the advantages of transport by rail are so evident that promotion of rail as a mode of transport is not really needed. rail transport is safe, comfortable, easy and clean, and most people are well aware of this. lack of promotion of rail is not the problem. the d&t projects of the past show that the biggest obstructions were politics, rules and regulations. these obstructions are man-made and should be dealt with. less is more. we need fewer rules and less regulation; we need more action and results. that is why i would like to ask the european commission to reserve extra budget for a study on the best way to organise the building and maintenance of a european transport rail network. it is our duty to provide safe, clean and reliable ways of mobility for the future. this does not include night trains. night trains are a thing of the past. we need high-speed rail networks. all we need is the political will to organise it.
mr president, the european commission has declared 2021 the year of rail transport, but i think that the year of trains, of railways, of rail transport in general, cannot be limited to 365 days, it must be next year and the year after that. i say this as a descendant of railway workers and i know that this is one of the solutions both to the heavy traffic on our roads, to some of the accidents that happen, to the polluted air and here the institutions in brussels we have to be very frank with the people. so when we say we are promoting rail transport and it reduces funding for the connected europe programme, we have to say why. over the last 30 years, the ratio of freight traffic on rail and road has remained absolutely unchanged. intermodal transport must be encouraged and this must be done by means of a regulation which we adopt. the delay in reforming the sector is the sole responsibility of brussels. so funding has to be dignified. i hope that the mff will complete all the key rail corridors in central and eastern europe that are lagging behind in this respect.
mr president, commissioner vălean, this report on the european year of the railways insists that policies to support this sector are a very positive tool in the fight against climate change. if we are able to make european the national networks that have shaped the logic of investment and the use and management of infrastructure and trains, we will be taking a decisive step towards a decarbonised and sustainable mobility, as called for in the green pact. don't over-invent, just make up for lost time. we fulfil the assumptions set out in the ten-t, we advance in meeting the forecasts of the fourth railway package to end fragmentation, we stimulate the effort in innovation, digitalisation and integrated management that has made the railway industry a world leader. it is up to us to ensure that the railway can continue to offer quality, safety, punctuality and competitive prices to passengers and goods who need these types of incentives and offers to move towards more sustainable mobility habits.
mr president, for almost 40 years now, the eu has been choosing a special annual theme to raise awareness on a specific issue, to encourage public debate on it across the eu and to underline its political importance. 2021 has been designated the european year of rail, to stir the debate on the contribution of railways to the european green deal and the environment. i consider it to be a very apt choice. i can see from my region – silesia – how sustainable, innovative and safe a mode of transport rail is. in addition, more and more often, rail takes us to our destination faster than a car. the częstochowa-gliwice rail connection and the katowice-gliwice railway section are just two countless examples. we should invest further in developing railway connections in europe, without a doubt. next year will be a perfect moment to intensify discussion on this topic. let’s make public transport great again!
mr president, it’s good to speak from this podium, usually reserved for presidents, prime ministers, kings, sakharov prize winners and even the pope. smes represent 99% of all businesses in the eu and maintaining a broad base of smes is vitally important for the economic development, wealth and sustainability of any region in the eu. to this end, we must do everything in our power to create a business—friendly environment and boost smes’ competitiveness, a task made all the more difficult with the dual economic crisis of brexit and covid—19, but a task made all the more integral because of them. better access to finance is crucial for smes and we need to strengthen and improve this by removing barriers to obtaining finance and by simplifying procedures. in this regard, the european investment bank should pay particular attention to smes. digitalisation has the potential to offer huge benefits to smes, such as providing new opportunities to offer digital services or products, and expanding market access. here smes still need support. yes, access to funding, but also access to information, skills and technology. we need to address digital skills and smes, and we should consider the creation of an sme voucher programme, commissioner. lastly, we need to ensure that the green deal is an economic opportunity for smes. i believe it is imperative not to impose an undue regulatory burden on smes as we may shoot ourselves in the foot by dampening innovation and potentially even slowing down our transition to a low-carbon and more digital economy.
mr president, when we say jobs, jobs, jobs today, we have to be aware of who is creating these jobs. eighty percent of new jobs are created by small businesses, so supporting economic recovery, supporting jobs means supporting small businesses. today, small businesses are in a very difficult situation, with more than half of them facing existential difficulties. access to finance is key for them and the situation in the gastro sector and their entire supply chain is particularly difficult. these firms need an immediate solution based on financial assistance or at least a waiver of levy obligations. let us not allow this important part of our cultural heritage to disappear and be replaced by uniform transnational operations and fast food. access to finance, reduction of administrative burdens and completion of the common market are important for the future of small businesses. we must also not forget small businesses when allocating european resources for the digital and green transformation. supporting small businesses must become a daily part of our work.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the eu economy. let us remember that there are more than 25 million of them in the union, employing more than 100 million people. in poland, the sme sector represents over 90% of all employers, generates over 50% of gdp and employs nearly 7 million people. it's a powerful force. unfortunately, it doesn't have the same options as large corporations in dealing with the administrative and regulatory apparatus. the difficult times of the pandemic crisis have clearly shown this. in the new strategy for smes, the union must therefore ensure that the regulatory environment and the economic law are as friendly, reasonable, flexible and transparent as possible for smes. there just needs to be less regulation. i'm a big believer in one for one. let's introduce a regulation only after we've removed another one that regulates the same issue. economic activity cannot be stifled by bureaucracy.
in writing. the european union's smes are a vital part of our economic reality. employing almost 100 million people, they generate more than half of the eu's gdp. in the current context of the pandemic and the increasing competitiveness of asian companies, it is necessary to ensure that european companies can develop more efficiently by reducing excessive fiscal burdens and administrative regulations, so that they can focus more effectively on everyday challenges. small and medium-sized enterprises are by their very nature more vulnerable to economic crises. therefore, union legislation should ensure that they are given the conditions for fair competition, which is in itself necessary to naturally produce companies that have a chance of future success on the global market. smes will not be able to grow in the 21st century without the digital transformation that is happening right now and that affects all of us. we must do everything we can to ensure that it is planned wisely and implemented effectively, so that our companies can maintain their market position and achieve a leading position in this field.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. improving the quality and protection of water resources is a key issue for all the inhabitants of the old continent. water scarcity is increasingly affecting us europeans as well. union water policy should encourage member states to implement better water management practices, in particular as regards water pricing policies. information policy should raise public awareness of water conservation through the use of appropriate tools and encourage the consumption of safe tap water, which will reduce the consumption of water in environmentally harmful plastic bottles. at the same time, we need to consider whether the ambitious water directives, which mobilise member states to improve water quality in europe, should be modified and better adapted to a changing climate and new pollutants. ladies and gentlemen, water is called the fountain of life. we can't survive a week without it. let us keep it clean and protect its resources for our own and future generations.
madam president, first of all thanks to rapporteur christophe hansen for doing a great job on the recast of the drinking water directive. but i think we mainly have to thank our citizens who were at the core of the question of a european citizens’ initiative on the right to water, for universal access to water, and i think there we did make good steps despite, i have to say, the council not really being willing to improve access to water for vulnerable and marginalised groups, because it all had to stay optional. i think it’s thanks to parliament that we strengthened those provisions. i think it’s also a good deal if you look at the improvements on, for example, endocrine disrupters, microplastics, and how we are, for the first time, dealing with a group approach on pfas, so i think that is a good solution, but we also have to discuss the fitness check of the water framework directive. i think it’s very important that the commission is stating also here that the water framework directive is fit for purpose and that the commission is not intending a review, and i think that is something that also this parliament is asking for. however, still the conclusion is that half of our waters – and in some cases even less than half of our waters – are not in good condition and this means we need to improve on the implementation – and this is also a question for the commission. you said, commissioner, that you will continue, but can you be more precise on what the commission is going to do to increase the implementation, the pressure on member states, to implement the water framework directive? and also for the council. we know very well that the financing is lacking very much and that for the implementation of the water framework directive we need more finances, so how is the council presidency going to improve that discussion so that we can have that? last point: the member states are making too much use of the exemptions possible in the water framework directive. there are guidelines for that. is the commission, together with the council, intending to update those guideline documents in order to limit the possibility of exemptions, because that is very important as well?
madam president! water is the greatest treasure and resource on our planet, there's no doubt about that. every day, more than 2 billion people around the world in 43 countries struggle to access clean drinking water. there's a growing deficit. rapid population growth coupled with climate change is leading to local conflicts over water that could easily escalate into regional wars in the future. the fight over the euphrates between turkey, syria and iraq, or over the nile between sudan and egypt, are just a few examples of the regions closest to the european union. but the problem of water resources is not just an arab or an african problem; it is also our problem, the problem of the european union. that is why i am glad that this directive is the answer. my country also struggles with a shortage of clean drinking water, droughts and supply shortages, and it costs us about 2 billion zlotys. today's debate on amending the directive is therefore important, but with the new law should come additional funding for water-related and water-saving infrastructure projects. approximately 66% of water used in households is used for purposes other than consumption and personal hygiene. that's why we need a revolutionary approach to water in europe and new investments in its purification and containment. this great revolution can begin with any one of us.
madam president! water is life. water is a citizen's right. water is the responsibility of the state for its citizens in a member state, but water is also health. we've learned that and we're repeating it in this pandemic, when we're constantly being told to wash your hands. yes, all of this is important. the citizens' initiative is also important, as it is the reason why we are discussing the directive again. it is just that the citizens' initiative and the reflection on the old directive do not see what is needed, which is a revision. the revision of the green deal, the climate law and the multiannual financial framework. because we can say to the citizens: yes, we want you to have water, yes, we want you to have access, yes, we want you to have sewerage and sanitation. but we have to be responsible and in the process we have to show that there are means. because these are huge investments, and we cannot -- and i'm talking about the green deal -- lead not only to energy poverty, but water poverty. such concepts are already emerging in some member states. all these investments are causing water to become more expensive than society can accept. it's our responsibility. we have to remember that, we have to apply our reflections to the green deal and everything that's happened over the last few months, including the water reuse regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. water is a very valuable commodity, and water is going to become the most valuable commodity on this planet in the next few years. so we should be very sensitive and very careful about this precious commodity. but what surprises me is that when we are discussing in this house how we are going to regulate access to water and all sorts of things with water in europe, we have to know that for over four years we have not been able to provide hot water in our own home here. for over four years, there has been no hot water here or in the house in strasbourg. so maybe we shouldn't get involved in too many things, because access to drinking water is a national competence, and we know that things that can be better regulated at a lower level should be regulated there. water supply is regulated differently across europe, and this is a good thing in many areas. so we should not equate things that are not equal, and we should attack this precious asset with very sensitive and careful hands.
mr president, according to the european environment agency’s report published in 2018, agriculture is the main cause of groundwater’s failure to achieve a good chemical status in the eu, as it leads to diffuse pollution from nitrates and pesticides. additionally, the european nitrogen assessment states that the total cost of nitrogen pollution in europe – the majority of which can be linked to animal farming – ranges between eur 70 million and eur 320 million annually, yet so far there are no concrete plans how to tackle the issue of water pollution linked to the agriculture sector and in particular to animal farming. i would like to ask a question to the commission. how is the commission planning to address the problem of nitrogen emissions linked to animal farming, both in the future cap and related national strategic plans and in the implementation of the from farm to fork strategy?
a member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for a very interesting and inspiring debate. i wanted to assure you that not only the official text of the resolution, but also all the votes, comments and suggestions made during this debate will be carefully considered by the commission in the course of its work. this will be done in particular by my colleague, commissioner sinkevičius, who is directly responsible for water management and who was unable to be present at the debate today because of the need to attend the council meeting. i would like to say that the commission is doing and will continue to do everything in its power to implement properly the directive we have discussed today. many infringement procedures are ongoing and more will be initiated if necessary. a list of derogations will also be kept and updated. i would like to express my satisfaction and thank the house again for allowing me to take part in this debate as the commissioner responsible for agriculture, because many of the votes were on agriculture. i confirm that proper water management in agriculture is of great importance and that improving the situation in agriculture is an important part of the whole package of measures to improve water management. i would like to make sure that we do everything we can to include the issue of improving water management and water protection in the reform of the common agricultural policy, its green architecture, the field-to-table strategy, the protection of biodiversity, and in the structural dialogue we are already conducting with the member states on recommendations for their strategic plans. this debate and your votes encourage us, and me even more, to pay even more attention to these issues. i declare that this will happen. i have high hopes for the introduction of green architecture in the common agricultural policy and hope that it will contribute to a significant improvement in the quality of water in the european union. i thank you again for an interesting, really very inspiring debate and for the opportunity to present the commission's position.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much for this debate, because it has also shown that the institutions of the european union are sometimes moving together at different speeds and with different passions. we owe it to the citizens, also in the knowledge that - this has become clear in all the speeches - that water, clean water, is a human right and that it should be accessible to all people. of course, as a representative of the council, i must stress once again that responsibility for water, for clean water, is a central national competence, and in some member states certainly also a regional one. but one thing is clear: rivers and lakes do not stop at national borders. the european union's commitment to providing a secure framework is therefore of paramount importance, and meps can always count on cooperation and constructive cooperation with the council. the council has been asked a number of questions - and certainly some critical ones - about the situation. one of the big questions was: why has this not been implemented? and why did we tear up the schedules? firstly, i am also grateful to the commission, which, as the guardian of the treaties, must always ensure that what we have decided together as the european union is implemented in the member states. i also have the impression that the commission is fulfilling its responsibilities here. but why is it so difficult? it is also difficult because we are dealing with huge investments and the question of financing has been raised. and i want to emphasize the outstanding importance of the municipalities. i was a local politician for 12 years. we've invested millions in a very small town in the middle of germany to make the water cleaner through sewage treatment plants. even then, the european union had very, very strict rules. the question has been repeatedly debated at the municipal level: why is the directive supposedly implemented more strictly in germany than in other countries? and the commission, and not least the court of justice, obviously play a central role in this. but community engagement is very, very outstanding. and how better to fund it? we need to have a dialogue, also on the ground, on new sources of finance - public, but certainly also private - when it comes to the responsibility of the economy. i would also like to emphasize that we have successful funds at european level, in particular the european agricultural fund for rural development, but also the cohesion fund, which supports the member states, but also the regions and local authorities in order to help us better meet the common objective. and i would like to make a second point in conclusion, because i also feel that we are pulling together. it's that we make the goal of ensuring clean water everywhere a task for all policy areas. my reference to the special importance of agriculture - and the commissioner has just emphasized this - was explained in my opening statement: 33 percent of water use is related to agriculture. and we also know that there are two important instruments, in particular through cross compliance, but also through rural financing, that help us to achieve sustainable growth in agriculture. and when we talk about sustainability, of course, clean water and access to water are very central. and it was precisely in our presidency of the council that we once again made it clear - also through initiatives - that the aim must be to reduce the ecological and climatic footprint of the current agricultural system, including the food system, in the european union, because we know the limits of pollution and we know the shared responsibility, especially for clean water. i thank you for this debate, and i thank you for the opportunity to be part of it. and i hope that in the years to come we will be able to meet our common objective even more quickly and with even greater determination, because that is also our responsibility towards our citizens in all the member states of the european union. and above all as a global inspiration - some members have also made a strong point of this - that we too must show - as a region of prosperity, social stability and economic success with a strong industrial sector and still a strong agricultural sector - that clean water and access to clean water are a very important element of prosperity and security, not only in europe but in the whole world.
the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position and no amendments under articles 67 and 68 have been tabled on the report by mr hansen. the proposed act is therefore deemed to be adopted. the vote on the amendments to the motion for a resolution on the implementation of eu water legislation will take place tomorrow, wednesday 16 december 2020. the final vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the agreement on drinking water quality is an important achievement. in its new form, the directive is not only about water security, but also about access to it, which is a major issue, especially in the context of climate change. it introduces concrete solutions to reconcile and combine these two objectives. regulations on risk analysis, materials used, parameters of harmful substances take account of new realities and threats. the emphasis on providing drinking water and on ensuring access to it for disadvantaged groups is to be appreciated. however, if we look at the different solutions in the context of the second document on the implementation of eu water legislation under discussion today, we can ask whether we are not taking a step too far in the right direction: whether, in pushing for ideologically sound solutions, we are not ignoring the realities and costs - both immediate and long-term economic and social costs. ensuring access to safe drinking water is a priority, as is concern for the environment. however, its implementation must take account of the needs of the economy, especially agriculture, which will bear the costs of overly restrictive rules. the question is, how will the various regulations affect the functioning of agriculture and industry?
in writing. according to the european environment agency report (no 7/2018 entitled european waters assessment of status and pressures 2018), only 40% of all surface waters in europe are in good condition or have an adequate ecological potential, and only 38% are in a chemical equilibrium. i welcome the eu member states' intensive efforts to improve water quality and meet the high standards of eu water legislation. however, it should be stressed that the system of environmental performance indicators proposed by the european parliament should accurately reflect actual progress in improving surface water quality and provide a broader understanding of some definitions, taking into account the biodiversity and natural transformation of the ecosystem according to the one-out-all-out principle and its crucial importance, which unfortunately does not reflect these progresses. as regards the provisions on perfluorinated compounds, a sufficiently cautious approach should be taken to avoid excluding all compounds commonly used in many key industries. i also believe that, in order to reduce disparities in water quality across regions, eu funds should be used appropriately, not only for new investment but also for the maintenance of existing installations, in line with environmental objectives and with the objective of sustainable economic development financed in a manner adapted to the needs.
in writing. we are talking about a very important issue of water quality for human consumption, which affects every person. the proposed directive is another ec step, following the plastics directive, towards a health and safety environment. the issue of revising the directive was raised not only by technological progress but also by the first eu citizens' initiative 'right to water'. access to safe water is a fundamental human right and is also one of the united nations development goals. it is unacceptable that not everyone in europe has access to good quality water. the eu must therefore promote the provision of free, good quality water in public places, perhaps even in every locality. this is what the people of europe want, and this is what they have expressed in their citizens' initiative. the well-being of people must always be our priority, and safe drinking water is our main objective. eu water is of a high standard, but new pollutants, consumer protection and the need to keep up with environmental change need to be taken into account. it is therefore good that the directive has introduced 18 new management parameters. mandatory analysis and risk management are also important. we also need to be vigilant about microplastics, which are becoming the biggest threat to the quality and safety of drinking water. citizens must have full confidence in the quality of their water. we should remember that it is necessary to protect drinking water sources and thus reduce industrial pollution and human behaviour that is not in keeping with the environment.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by elsi katainen, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down transitional rules for support from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) in 2021, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 229/2013 and (eu) no 1308/2013 as regards the appropriations and their distribution in 2021 and amending regulations (eu) no 1305/2013, (eu) no 1306/2013 and (eu) no 1307/2013 as regards their appropriations and their applicability in 2021 (com ((0581) 2019 c9-0162/2019 2019/0425 (cod)) (a9-0101/2020). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a vote of major importance for farmers, agriculture and the security of supply in europe as a whole. we are voting on legislation that will spend about a third of eu funds over the next two years. we're also releasing eight billion euros of relief money, because the coronavirus is hitting the food chain right now, not next year. the outcome of the consultation is a sign that europeans value local food, security of supply and safe and high-quality food. i am proud that we are able, in exceptional circumstances, to reach a common solution on the content of the legislation, within the time-limit. we will continue for the next two years with the current rules of the agricultural policy and will ensure the continuity of the national subsidies which are important for farmers. at the same time, we will ensure that more is done on climate and environmental issues than ever before. we also reacted to the shock caused by the corona by easing state aid rules and the use of agricultural risk management mechanisms. the most important thing is that farmers will have certainty for the next two years and that the one-year transitional period proposed by the commission, which proved to be too short, will not be implemented. this will continue rural development programmes and ensure continuity for farmers. this will give farmers and the administration sufficient time to prepare for the changes brought about by the new programming period starting in 2023. the reform of the common agricultural policy will then come into force, which will bring about a major change in the rules and structures of the aid policy. i think it is important that the reform is completed with care, and now, in the context of this transitional period, there is enough time to do so. i would like to thank the negotiators from all the groups for their excellent cooperation in this challenging work, which has also been fraught with challenges along the way. the cooperation has been very smooth with everyone, and without a good spirit of cooperation we would not have achieved such a good result. i would also like to thank paolo de castro, the negotiator of the recovery section, and his team for allowing us to link the recovery funds to this legislation. i would also like to thank the council, led by croatia and germany, for their constructive cooperation and flexibility. i also thank the commission for its help in mediating the negotiations. only together can we bring the stability and legal certainty needed for the agricultural sector. ladies and gentlemen, this legislation will be a reality for every european in just over two weeks. by accepting the outcome of the negotiations, we will ensure that the support which is important to european farmers continues on the agreed timetable and that the operating environment in the whole agricultural sector is strengthened.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the co-legislators for their constructive attitude and effective cooperation during the legislative procedures concerning the cap transitional regulation. i’m happy to see that we are now reaching the finishing line. thank you very much to the rapporteur, ms katainen, to the shadow rapporteurs; thank you to the council, to the german presidency, for the very constructive dialogue and cooperation. the position which is about to be adopted today is key for providing certainty to farmers and other common agricultural policy beneficiaries in the years 2021 and 2022. i’m delighted to see that despite the difficulties caused by the covid-19 pandemic, we were all able to combine two processes – the transitional rules and the integration of the additional allocations proposed under the european union recovery instrument – into the rural development programmes. today this plenary will vote on the merged outcome. it is a great achievement that the combination of two procedures did not hamper the quick adoption of the transitional regulation. the transitional regulation will include key elements that were brought forward by the european parliament, such as the continuation of phasing out payments for areas with natural constraints which no longer qualify as such following the new elimination under regulation (eu) no 1305/2013; the possibility for member states to support more easily risk management measures; increasing technical assistance funding for certain smaller member states in order to prepare for the new common agricultural policy and the continuation of the transitional national aid and the finnish national aid. i’ve also pledged that the eu recovery instrument funds to be distributed under the rural development programmes will mostly be used for measures that ensure a recovery beneficial for the environment and climate and to help our farming and rural communities to be more resilient and recover from the effects of the pandemic. moreover, i am glad that all institutions managed to arrive at a satisfactory outcome on the funding of the support programmes for the outermost regions and the smaller aegean islands. the text presented for the vote is a balanced text that will allow farmers and citizens and businesses in rural areas to continue in 2021 and 2022 to benefit from income support, from tools for market stability and from support for investments, cooperation measures beneficial to the environment, as well as from the other structural measures. this will be key for the recovery of the european economy and rural areas.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. two years of transition are not good. it would have been better if we had succeeded in reforming the common agricultural policy and had started reforming it in a few days. but that is not the case, and i think that under the present circumstances this is a good regulation - a regulation which also gives farmers legal certainty, because they know that the european union's funding will continue to be guaranteed for the next few years. i am particularly pleased that the eur 7,5 billion from nextgenerationeu has been successfully incorporated into this regulation. i think it is particularly important that this money can be used in the next two years and not as originally planned by the commission until 2023. it would have made little sense to use covid funds from 2023 onwards. and that is why i think that overall it is a good regulation - a regulation that we can also agree to - and i would like to thank all those who were involved in the work very sincerely.
the difficult agreement reached by the european council last week finally gives us the chance to keep the commitments we made to our farmers, our producers and our rural areas. not only legal certainty and the possibility of better planning your business choices thanks to the two-year extension of the current agricultural policy, but also and above all an unprecedented injection of liquidity to cope with the devastating consequences of the pandemic. thanks to the european recovery facility, we are ready to unlock over €8 billion for rural development as early as january 2021. a package of support that will have to be made available as soon as possible by member states, so that it can really pave the way for economic recovery in the name of resilience, sustainability and digitalisation, and in line with the objectives outlined in the green deal. and it is thanks to the ambitious position supported by all the groups in this parliament's committee on agriculture that we have succeeded in preventing these funds from financing business as usual. at least 55% of the more than 8 billion will be allocated to young people, small farmers and, above all, to investments that promote the social and economic development of rural areas, pursuing objectives essential for an increasingly sustainable agriculture, such as the digitisation and modernisation of production tools, better safety conditions at work, short supply chains, renewable energy and the circular economy. but in order for the sector's recovery to be able to effectively balance environmental, social and economic sustainability, at least 37% of the funds will be allocated to measures with high environmental added value, such as organic farming, reducing agricultural greenhouse gas emissions, soil conservation, improving water management and animal welfare. once again, the european parliament has shown itself to be the driving force behind the legislative process, and for that, let me thank the entire negotiating team, the shadow rapporteurs who have worked in recent weeks to reach an agreement on the next generation eu for rural development. when the three institutions, commissioner, decide to work side by side with the same objective, fundamental results can be achieved, especially for a sector that, even in the most difficult times of the pandemic, has never backed down, continuing to guarantee the food that arrives every day on our tables.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing an important dossier today: the transitional rules for agriculture. i would like to thank all those who have worked hard to get this dossier adopted. i'd like to congratulate our renew reporter on a job well done. we followed the motto: old rules, fresh money. and i think we really need that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim for all of us was that our farmers would get the legal certainty for the next two years on time. i hope we can achieve that. i believe that the most important achievements are the extension of the mandate to two years, the multiannual commitments for the agricultural, environmental and bio-based measures, the transitional national aid and also the extension of the covid measures, to name a few. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same applies to the beekeeping sector. i think that's a good sign. despite adverse working conditions due to the covid pandemic, solid results were achieved. i am also pleased that we can make the unused funds from the second pillar available for another year in the area of aid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transitional arrangements are completed in time, which will allow us, as the cap negotiating team, to continue to work diligently and to take informed decisions. i believe that the national administrations also need this necessary time. we will send a clear signal to our farmers today that they can rely on the european union even in times of crisis.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european agriculture is a treasure which we must preserve not only for economic reasons but also for cultural reasons, because it has largely shaped our landscapes and our ways of life. in these very trying times we live in, the most important thing that people need is stability and security. i therefore approve the regulation, which lays down transitional provisions for the agricultural guarantee fund and the agricultural fund for rural development. i think that this regulation has the immense merit of extending for two years the aid on which farmers are entitled to rely. i am glad, along with my colleague, mrs maxette pirbakas, that we have succeeded in safeguarding the interests of our farmers overseas. this two-year transitional period will also allow member states sufficient time to develop their national strategic plans, which in my view is the most interesting innovation of the new cap. i'm more circumspect about the agricultural part of the stimulus package. i agree with several of its objectives, in particular those of promoting short circuits, financing the modernisation of agricultural machinery and helping young farmers to settle down. but i do not understand why at least 37% of the sums should be earmarked for environmental measures. it should not have been lost sight of the fact that the objective of the recovery plan was to promote economic recovery and not to ensure environmental protection, which is already the subject of the green deal. i also regret that the €8 billion in this plan is not enough to compensate for the decline in the cap budget. finally, i would like to denounce the double game played by the european union, which on the one hand helps european agriculture, but on the other hand betrays it by negotiating free trade agreements of which it is the adjustment variable.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, last week the european council reached an agreement for a new 2030 eu target for a net domestic reduction of at least 55% in greenhouse gas emissions. while it is not in line with the latest scientific knowledge and can hardly be seen as satisfying, it is still a challenge for the eu and a step towards climate neutrality. according to the communication on the from farm to fork strategy, agriculture is responsible for more than 10% of the eu’s ghg emissions, and nearly 70% of those come from the animal sector. there’s no doubt that, with the cap reform still under negotiation, a transitional regulation has to be put in place. however, we have to make sure that those two years are not wasted ones if it comes to the eu climate and environmental targets, including the ones regarding improvement of animal welfare. what is the commission planning to do in order to use that transitional period as the time to prepare for higher ambitions in the next cap?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. a regulation on transitional provisions for the common agricultural policy is necessary to ensure the continuation of that policy before the entry into force of the new common agricultural policy. while parliament's success is to extend the transition period to two years and to include the recovery instrument in the legislative text, the regulation, in my view, sets an overly ambitious environmental target, as it provides that as much as 37% of the post-crisis recovery funds are to be allocated to environmental objectives. moreover, at the last stage of the tripartite negotiations, the german presidency of the council added a recital to the text of that regulation relating to the provisions on the general system of cross-compliance for the protection of the union budget. reference to the conditionality system may in future lead to the payment of member states being made subject to additional criteria which do not result from the applicable law and are contrary to the treaties. the union is violating the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality in the case of farmers.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. today, it's up to us to take the next step in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. when we launched the life-saving crii and crii+ in april, we showed that cohesion policy had passed the test and provided health security for our loved ones and families. now, after several months of work, we have the react-eu instrument. this is €47.5 billion of additional cohesion policy funding for our countries, regions, health services, businesses and, above all, the people of europe. the slowdown in investment and economic activity across the european union has caused a major economic and social crisis. react-eu is an urgent response to counter this and get back on the path of development and economic growth. the european union has committed to supporting the implementation of the european recovery mechanism (erm) by providing financial support to the member states and the commission in the form of grants, loans and guarantees. this is why the tripartite negotiations were so crucial and have resulted in even better opportunities for its use, i.e. the eligibility period for expenditure extended until the end of 2023 and the level of investment advances increased to 11%. the react-eu instrument does not impose any obligation but allows for flexible decision-making in each country to maximise the recovery effect. all to ensure that support reaches where it is needed most. i am convinced that the €37.5 billion for 2021 for poland over €1.5 billion that we will launch from january, with a 100% level of investment funding, will effectively contribute to a rapid exit from the covid-19 crisis. ladies and gentlemen, by adopting react-eu today, we are standing together in solidarity to support development and investment, and to fight for the preservation of every job, both economic and social. all citizens of a united europe are waiting for this help.
madam president! we are finalising the legislative process for the react-eu regulation, which is the support for reconstruction for cohesion and the territories of europe. the fund, which is intended to complement cohesion policy programmes in the context of the current economic crisis, is to amount to eur 47.5 billion. the allocation of resources will be determined by the commission at a later stage by means of implementing acts and i hope that, as agreed by parliament and the council, it will provide maximum flexibility and decision-making to the member states. at this point i would like to emphasise that, contrary to the common opinion pushed by the media and some politicians of the union, poland has never been against the rule of law mechanism. however, in defence of european law and the interests of not only our own citizens, we do not accept any possibility of arbitrary interpretation and use of this mechanism. it may only be used in the event of unlawful expenditure of union funds and must be based on objective and measurable criteria which do not allow it to be politically instrumentalised. the european union is today, like socialism, fighting heroically against the problems it has created.
madam president, there is no doubt that the 47 billion euro react-eu fund will be able to help the economies of the european union member states, which are currently being tested by a pandemic crisis that has swept everything in its path and is leaving behind health and socioeconomic wreckage. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. and all sectors of the economy are affected, because small and mediumsized enterprises, farmers, the various sectors of the economy, even social groups, which are in danger of being marginalized once again, the unemployed, the vulnerable, single parents, families with many children, all of them are in a much more critical situation than anyone else. that is why we are calling on the european union not only to announce the 750 billion for the recovery fund, but also to make sure that this money is channelled through flexible procedures, away from the familiar bureaucratic procedures of the european union, away from those procedures which actually discourage citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these countries and these companies which have not received a single euro so far, these tourism companies and these sectors must be supported by the recovery fund, react-eu, before it is too late. the european citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises, social groups and the unemployed are already watching us today and expect us to provide them with solutions. we're already late. it is time for the european union. the european union must, with a strong voice and a force that will give perspective, vitality and a way out of the current social and economic crises, give the answers that we all expect and that we all expect from the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the current pandemic, which affects the whole planet, the population is facing a number of economic and social problems. the pandemic has particularly affected small and medium-sized enterprises across the european union, causing many smes to go bankrupt and some to be on the verge of survival. at the beginning of this health crisis, the closure of national borders led to a real economic blockade, affecting the movement of workers and increasing unemployment in the member states. the european union, however, reacted swiftly, showed responsibility and solidarity, and tried and succeeded in providing effective protection for all the citizens, workers and businesses affected. a number of programmes and financial assistance have been created to limit the negative effects of the pandemic. the react-eu programme was designed to rescue the european union member states whose economies and jobs have been most severely affected. this programme will seek to limit national differences in addressing the effects of the crisis, so as not to create regional gaps. unemployment across the european union is expected to rise to 8.6% in 2021 as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. the programme must therefore focus on avoiding the risk of a lost generation and creating new jobs, and of course strengthening existing ones. bold policies will be needed. react-eu has all the tools to provide member states with a set of effective responses to the current crisis, including by simplifying the procedures for spending european money.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all those that contributed to this very interesting debate. i would like to reply in these two minutes by underlining that in fact, the commission and cohesion policy reacted and gave the answer already in april with the support of this parliament and with the support of the council, and so cohesion policy once again demonstrated that it was there to act and to support when support is needed. flexibilities are already there in the coronavirus response investment initiative (crii), and so this is a continuation of this project and this programme until 2023. i would also like to underline that in fact, there was disagreement with going fast, and we share this concern. we have got to remind ourselves that after the european council’s conclusions last friday and this week’s plenary debate, i hope that the remaining procedures for the approval of the nextgenerationeu will go very fast so that the money reaches the citizens, the regions. on some comments that were made on which sectors, which regions we are proposing, it was approved by this parliament and by the presidency to concentrate efforts on countries and regions more in need of help. and so, what we are talking about is regions now that suffer the most and are less capable of helping themselves. i would like to finalise by thanking all those that had very complimentary words towards the commission. i think the commission did what it was supposed to do, and i would like to thank the incredible work done by the chair younous omarjee, by the rapporteurs andrey novakov, constanze krehl, agnes jongerius, and in those names i’m complimenting and thanking all the teams that in a very cooperative way and in a very convergent way were able to bridge differences. in fact, they improved, together with the presidency, the initial proposal from the commission and i thank you for that. so let’s go on working together. there is a lot to be done. this is just, as you mentioned, the first step to transforming the immediate support into a more prolonged and a more stable, more green, more balanced and more digital, recovery of europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. react-eu is the first programme of the cohesion package to be adopted. through the corona recovery fund, react-eu will provide €47.5 billion over the coming years to help europe's regions respond to the impact of the crisis: to save jobs or support the self-employed, to strengthen health systems, to support small and medium-sized enterprises, not least in the hard-hit sectors of tourism and culture. good news: all these projects can be supported retroactively from 1 february 2020. this will allow the regions to use eu funds to supplement their measures to deal with the coronavirus crisis, as if after the fact. importantly, it was in border regions that people felt the restrictions of the coronavirus most when the borders were closed again. so i am glad that we have highlighted these border regions. here, react-eu should help restore lost trust in the eu. i am also glad that we have been able to achieve a stronger link with the social fund and the youth employment initiative. we're making sure that react eu is investing heavily in the social space. the money from react eu can be used quickly and unbureaucratically so the programme lives up to its name: the eu is responding to the coronavirus crisis as people and regions rightly expect.
in writing. – the s&d group has always been at the forefront for a swift and meaningful eu reaction, showing that the european parliament is ready to step in and properly address the pandemic and its consequences for the benefit of our citizens. throughout negotiations, we have always focused on the social component of react-eu. additional resources need to go especially to youth employment, education and skills, social inclusion and health. and in doing so, we must make sure that no disadvantaged group is left behind. health, tourism and culture are also areas where special attention will be paid. we fought hard to keep a balance between regions – the ones most affected by the pandemic and the less developed ones – which are at the core of the cohesion policy. therefore, it’s time to promote new jobs, competitiveness, sustainable and inclusive growth for driving the recovery process. to achieve this, funding must reach our regions immediately and it is necessary to develop the knowledge how best to use these funds. i am confident that react-eu will provide the additional funding for the most important sectors to contribute to green, digital, and resilient crisis-repair measures through a variety of eu instruments and funds.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, before starting today’s debate, i would like to thank parliament for its continued support in what has been one of my main personal commitments since i took office, the adoption by the council of the european union global human rights sanctions regime. i think this is a landmark achievement. it’s a first, strong step forward. it is evident that human rights are at the union’s core and in our dna, and it signals the european union’s strong determination to stand united in their defence. we will surely have the opportunity to discuss it more in detail on a few occasions, but i would like to take this opportunity to thank you again for your support in getting this important initiative through and then i hope that the member states will be able to use it because, once you have a tool, you have to take it out of the toolbox and use it. now let us turn to the recent developments in the eastern partnership. the eastern partnership was established 11 years ago. since then, it has consolidated as a useful and relevant framework for the benefit of both the european union and our eastern neighbours. it has offered closer political associations and economic integration with the european union. it has also been key in supporting sustainable reform processes, including the rule of law, although i have to say that progress has not been linear and it is very different from one country to another. it has had a tangible impact on people’s lives. i think we should be proud of advancements in mobility, growing trade with the european union, and improvements in digital and energy cooperation. we have achieved a lot despite the challenges faced by our partners. the last year and especially these last months have been particularly difficult and have put all of us to the test. we will for a long time be facing the consequences of the pandemic, which has shifted our priorities. several of our partners have experienced conflicts, fighting and repression, unrest and popular demand for democratic values and reform. you know what i am talking about. in this time of challenges, the need for cooperation becomes stronger and the partnership with the eastern countries enables us to address these common challenges and provide a platform for dialogue and exchange of best practices. the eastern partnership forges an area of shared democracy, prosperity and stability with our neighbours in the east. it must remain at the top of the european union agenda. it’s in our interest. our partners have made demands. for them, the european union remains the most trusted foreign institution in the region, as our opinion polls show. strength and resilience is the main objective and core element of the future partnership policy as set out in the joint communication in march. we will work with our partners on five areas of resilience: economic, democratic, environmental, digital and societal. i think it’s key to empower civil society and independent media to increase accountability, to expose corruption and to enhance critical thinking. there is no hidden agenda behind this approach. we are only guided by the values we believe in – free, open societies based on human rights and the fundamental rights of citizens. our reflection in the future also encompasses how to make sure that the partnership remains strategic, ambitious, effective and flexible. the partnership is designed to offer flexibility to develop more advanced relations with those who wish to do so, but it also has to remain inclusive and not to leave anyone behind. we need to stress the great potential of the current bilateral agreements, notably the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine. in recent months, we have engaged in a comprehensive dialogue with partner countries, member states, civil society and a wide range of stakeholders on the future shape of the eastern partnership. i think there is a strong consensus that the framework has delivered, and they can be proud of many achievements, but many challenges remain. the implementation of practical and concrete activities will be the result of this debate and i will conclude after listening to all your observations and remarks. i think it is a very important debate. our eastern partnership is one of the most important things we have to deal with because our stability, security and even economic prosperity depend closely on how these countries are performing. so thank you for this opportunity. i am looking forward to listening to your remarks.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, high representative, it’s a really good moment to discuss this topic today, with the next eastern partnership summit planned to take place in spring next year. as the objective of this summit is to agree on new common objectives, i wish to particularly emphasise two aspects of utmost importance: violations of fundamental freedoms and human rights as well as conflict settlement. here we primarily speak about unacceptable events in belarus connected to the latest presidential elections. i’m very happy that tomorrow this house will present the sakharov prize to the democratic opposition of belarus. it’s important to maintain the eastern partnership as the framework to increase bilateral and multilateral cooperation and create positive spillover effects among the countries. at the same time, i believe we need a more determined approach towards violations of the joint commitments and the principles and values of this partnership. regarding the latest context in nagorno karabakh, we have to play a more active role in the post-conflict environment. the european union should not be excluded for settlements of conflicts in its neighbourhood. in the context of the ongoing discussions of so-called strategic autonomy, what we need is more strategic responsibility. the european union must take responsibility for the promise of security and prosperity in the common neighbourhood which constitutes the basis of the eastern partnership too.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the last few months in the eu’s eastern neighbourhood has seen some of the most serious political and military crises. belarus is in turmoil for the fifth month now. there is an intensifying crackdown on peaceful demonstrations, arrests and torture. in this situation, the eu must halt all cooperation with the government and redirect assistance to the opposition and civil society until new and legitimate elections take place in belarus. another sudden explosion of a fully-fledged military conflict in the nagorno-karabakh region took the eu by surprise. fortunately, a ceasefire has been brokered, but the eu’s role was very limited. whereas moldova, ukraine and georgia appear to be more stable, it is noteworthy that they went through a complex electoral season, and while the process appears to have been reasonably well managed in ukraine and moldova, the aftermath of the parliamentary elections in georgia is, of course, of serious concern. the political parties in georgia should resume dialogue with the aim of reaching an agreement, so that all members of parliament would work in the parliament and adopt electoral and judicial reforms in the interest of georgian citizens and eu-georgia relations. the aim of the eastern partnership is to work towards achieving political association and economic integration to promote well-being. we need to rethink our approach to conflict resolution, enhancing civil protection, promotion of international law principles and countering hybrid threats. in light of this year’s developments, the eastern partnership needs to be re-examined to ensure its efficiency in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the commission's geopolitical year is over, but unfortunately without success. we are not in the libyan conflict, we are not in the syrian conflict. in the gulf, progress has been made by israel and the united states, but not by the european union. so have we been more active towards our eastern partnership partners? i'm not either. we were not present in the armenian-azerbaijani conflict. there, russia and turkey took up the issue of restoring peace. moldova has seen positive changes, but not under the european union flag. in ukraine, they're increasingly counting on nato support, not the european union. belarus is fighting for democracy under its national flag, but not under the flags of the european union. the european union is not becoming a magnet. so will the eastern partnership continue to be an eternal waiting room, or will it evolve? are we offering sector cooperation? do we dare to finally raise the issue of membership? so are we going to multiply the terms of cooperation that even our members sometimes fail to meet?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. it's hard to take stock at the end of a pandemic year. the transformation of societies is not complete, and the challenges in domestic and foreign policy are enormous. the ceasefire between armenia and azerbaijan remains fragile. in georgia, it seems more than difficult to resolve ethno-political conflicts through the interests of russia and the inconsistent policy of the eu. in belarus, despite large and courageous demonstrations by the people, there is still no easing of tensions. the european neighbourhood policy is undoubtedly complex, but it is clear that our support for the democratic, social and economic development of these countries must not lead to confrontational developments. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the clear statements and plans of the newly elected president of the republic of moldova are encouraging. maia sandu has presented a comprehensive political and social programme with a consistent focus on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and democratisation. let us help it by setting an example in all 27 member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the history of the eastern partnership and especially for the peoples of the south caucasus, it is not inappropriate to recall the enormous suffering caused by political violence, dear high representative. our programmes have contributed to the well-being and growth of this society with the primary intention of stopping this spiral. but the present shows us that these advances are unfortunately reversible and that the only way to defend them and bring prosperity to society is obviously a peaceful way. the recent developments in nagorno-karabakh, the violent repression of lukashenka in belarus and the operational difficulty of the eu in the face of their deployment are a clear signal that the union needs to rethink the instruments of the eastern partnership programme. in nagorno-karabakh the conflict was frozen again by a truce useful to the hegemonic powers of the caucasus russia and turkey to consolidate their new influence, but it would be a harbinger of further scars and wounds between baku and yerevan. resolving this dispute, resolving the democratic transition in belarus is an important effort, it will require a europe that can best play its role as mediator and champion of dialogue and multilateralism. unanimity must be our will, not the working of our instruments.
madam president, dear colleagues, i never believed it could happen that, due to my parliamentary activities because i try to protect the rights of the hungarian minority living in ukraine, i have been included on a so-called death list of the myrotvorets website as an enemy of ukraine. however, it happened, and the problem is even more serious, as it is not just me who is attacked because of raising a voice for the protection of the hungarian community, but the community itself faces constant political pressure, attacks and intimidation. i often stress that there is a huge problem with the respect for fundamental minority rights in ukraine, especially how the hungarian community is treated. in november there were several cases of hate speech against the hungarians; then, armed commando units of the security service of ukraine delivered a coordinated attack against the office of the cultural alliance of hungarians and the home of its leader and a charity. the harsh actions were based on fabricated accusations to restrict the operation of these organisations and to intimidate the hungarian minority. honourable high representative, i would like to ask you to take concrete steps and call on ukraine to close down the myrotvorets website and to ensure the protection of the hungarians living in ukraine and persons who stand up for human and minority rights.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr borrell very much for the human rights sanction mechanism. finally, i should say. the stability of our neighbourhood is key for our security, so we need a strong eastern partnership. we all agree on that. but how do we get there, that’s the fundamental question. what the situation in nagorno karabakh and belarus have in common is the inability of the eu to have a meaningful influence. it’s not just that we are too slow or too divided. no, we just don’t have any political clout. geopolitical ambitions, yes, but power, no. and so we continue our financial support, yet at the same time we leave the fate of the region in the hands of putin. putin’s troops are in nagorno karabakh, his military advisers and media experts in belarus. and where are we? the eu needs to take a more proactive, direct and leading role. but most importantly, if we want our eastern neighbourhood policy to succeed, we need, mr borrell, to complement it with a new, more effective eu-russia strategy. time to make work of it.
madam president, the eastern partnership aims at bringing peace at our eastern borders but to countries which have neither the ability nor the will to adopt western values, and the eu does not have the power to impose values or political views. if you take on responsibilities without having the authority and power to act, you are heading for failure. the actions of the european union in the eastern partnership countries, especially the injection of funds, may in fact lead to instability, because it provokes people to fight among each other over funds. ten years of partnership has not led to stability at all and that’s terrible. money can be a solution but it often is a cause of problems. the 72 million people who live in the eastern partnership countries will receive eur 1 billion to soften the coronavirus crisis. this is almost eur 14 per person. will this really help, or will it create new problems? let’s stop this nonsense and start dealing with our neighbours in a mature and respectful manner. stop sending money for nothing, which only destabilises the countries and enhances corruption.
madam president, frankly speaking, i miss the eu’s geopolitical ambition, strong determination and full engagement in the eastern partnership. renewed military conflict over nagorno-karabakh, its devastating outcomes and the ceasefire agreement confirms the fact of a reduced eu geopolitical presence in the south caucasus. neither the european union nor its member states were a part in reaching the political solution. the mere fact that the conflict involved two participants of the eu’s eastern partnership initiative demonstrates the shortcomings of our foreign and security policy. we lacked the timely political initiative, necessary tools and strategic vision. election of the pro-european president maia sandu in moldova is a long-awaited event that returns hopes about implementation of most needed reforms. her promise to fight against corruption and free the state from oligarchic rule needs to be reinforced with eu support. moldova received a historic opportunity and it would be too disastrous not to seize it. awakening of the civil society in belarus, its desire to democratise the state and start the reform process places even higher expectations on the eu’s eastern partnership policy. let’s be vigorous and strong in supporting belarusian democratic opposition.
madam president, recent developments in eastern partnership countries call for a strategic european policy towards the region. we can see that the political scenes remain highly volatile. we must take into account the drafting of new objectives post 2020. the initiative that offered full cooperation to the eastern partnership countries has advantages. however, we must put our common security and the security of our citizens in these countries higher on our agenda. breaking a ceasefire in the brokered peace in nagorno-karabakh is one of these security concerns. i call on the european union to closely monitor the implementation of the peace agreement between armenia and azerbaijan. humanitarian assistance should reach those in need and citizens should be able to return peacefully to their homes. we also have to ensure the protection and preservation of cultural and religious heritage sites in nagorno-karabakh. since the ceasefire, both armenia and azerbaijan have accused each other of breaching the agreement. we must look for a means, in close cooperation with the co—chairs of the minsk group, to find a role for the european union to broker a permanent ceasefire in this troubled area.
madam president, we have always been committed to our neighbours in the east, but one thing must be very clear: our commitment is to the people, and wherever a dictator actively steals elections, throws peaceful demonstrators in jail and even tortures his own citizens, whether this is in belarus or azerbaijan, our relations should be with the people alone. tomorrow we are awarding the sakharov prize to the female-led democratic opposition of belarus, and it is with them that our relations must be. strong words are not enough. the belarusians have been protesting for four months now, and lukashenko is still there with the support of moscow. more than 32 000 people have been detained. there are more than 4 500 serious allegations of torture and several people who have been killed or disappeared. we can’t simply look away and allow this to continue. the people of belarus rightfully expect firm action. we have to seriously step up the sanctions to include all state companies and oligarchs, who are the lifeline of an illegitimate dictator, to hurt those who repress and torture peaceful demonstrators and finance lukashenko, and at the same time, of course, step up all technical, financial and political support to the belarusian people. we will not rest until all political prisoners are freed, perpetrators brought to justice, and free and fair elections are held. it is the right of the people of belarus and the whole eastern partnership to decide on their own future and direction, and we will always defend that right.
madam president! i am speaking of the eastern partnership as the member from the country which, more than 10 years ago, proposed this programme to the whole of the european union. as my predecessors have said, the picture in the partner countries is mixed. we have war, we have frozen conflicts, we have repression, we have corruption, but we also have the struggle for freedom, the growth of trade, and the triumph of democracy. the heat of the debate on the eastern partnership in this house shows that it has become a key element of our neighbourhood and foreign policy. mr high representative, i know how difficult it is to influence events in other countries, but i want to tell you that all these voices are voices of support and concern, and that the people of ukraine first, then belarus, and now moldova are showing their european aspirations, is a great victory for the eastern partnership. i hope that you will continue to do so and i hope that the member states will loyally support the policies that have been agreed.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, thank you all very much for your contributions, which i have appreciated, particularly the last one, that of mr sikorski, who has summarized the picture. certainly, problems are not lacking. we have wars, we have dictatorships, we have stolen elections, we have situations of deep instability, we have corruptions that we do not end or do not end - because they are the ones who have to do it - they do not end up eradicating. i am not saying that the situation is particularly positive - and you know that - but it would surely be worse without this association. listening to some of you, i think i have the impression that, for some, if you are not able to put troops on the ground, then your action is worth nothing. well, i'm sorry to tell you, in case you don't know, the european union is not going to put troops on the ground. we will not be like turkey; as you have said, there has been support or military intervention. are you suggesting i do the same? when you call for stronger, more decisive, more forceful action, what do you mean? no, we're not going to intervene militarily. they better know that and not ask the apple tree for pears. we can do what we can do and we are doing it. we are not a military alliance. we work in the fields of cooperation, diplomacy, support for civil society with our financial resources. we may be able and should take action using the instruments we have in the commercial and economic fields. but let me remind you that we invested a lot of money in this association. i'm not going to give you a recital here of all the figures. some of you have quoted them. ukraine, for example, is the country that receives the most aid from the european union. with covid-19 we have accelerated and increased our financial support. yes, i know there's been a war between azerbaijan and armenia. and what have we done to prevent it? the tasks of diplomacy and financial resources. we don't have any others. we don't have any others; please, put your feet on the ground. tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we shall have the agreements of the meetings of the association councils with armenia and azerbaijan. and we will naturally raise the problems that you have rightly raised here, the abuses that have been committed in this war. and we will continue to commit ourselves to supporting with the means at our disposal the peaceful resolution of conflicts, to continue to fight against bad government practices, respect for human rights, freedom, progress and everything that is in our objectives. they do not believe that we can solve the problems of these countries in ten years, which is the age of the eastern partnership. but we cannot underestimate what we have done either. we can't be that negative either. the situation would be much worse if the european union had not been an active and committed partner and financier of the political and economic transformations in these countries. our support for ukraine has been fundamental. and our approach to what has happened in belarus is fundamental to supporting the democrats in belarus. yes, i want to collect the complaints concerning the situation of the hungarian minority in ukraine, of course. disclosing personal data on this myrotvorets website is completely unacceptable and we have already asked for this content to be removed and we are in contact with our counterparts in this field. we have certainly been talking to the authorities in ukraine and hungary to resolve their disagreements quickly, constructively and with respect for minorities. we know and we intervene as much as we can to defend the situation of minorities and, in particular, the situation of the hungarian minority. ladies and gentlemen, your criticisms are very encouraging and i can assure you that i would like to have magic wands to solve the problems you raise. i don't have them. what i have are the financial and diplomatic resources of the union. we use them with all our energy and capacity. and i hope with your support, or rather, i am sure with your support. we have to keep pushing. this is no easy task. the situation in these countries, after the break-up of the soviet union, could hardly be imagined to be resolved in ten years. we must continue to give them our support, but we cannot pretend to act as others do. we reproach them for doing so, but we will not imitate them. we can't and we won't.
in writing. in ukraine today, systematic intimidation of transcarpathian hungarians is taking place: recently, armed commandos of the ukrainian national security, apparently on the basis of a trumped-up accusation of separatism, stormed transcarpathian hungarian organizations, including the institutions of the transcarpathian hungarian cultural association (kmksz), which provides ethnic representation of the hungarians, as well as the home of the association's president, lászló brenzovics. and over the weekend, our colleague in the european parliament, pardon me andrea , was added to the list of the extreme right-wing group mirotvorec, which lists "enemies of ukraine", and his life could be in danger. the list of violations is very long, these are only the latest episodes of a long-term anti-hungarian minority policy, which aims not only to prevent the activities of hungarian organizations in ukraine, but also to intimidate transcarpathian hungarians and their leaders. this level of intimidation of national minorities is unacceptable anywhere in the world, but it is far more serious when it takes place in an eastern partnership country that wants to move closer to nato and the european union. minority rights are part of human rights, as the european union is doing everywhere in the world, and should be done in ukraine, not just ignore serious violations for geopolitical reasons. the political pressure and intimidation against the hungarians in ukraine is an unacceptable method, which evokes bad memories and raises fears, especially in this part of europe, and therefore requires a firm position and the prospect of sanctions.
in writing. the european union's external policy towards the east, pursued within the framework of its neighbourhood policy, the eastern partnership, is designed to deepen political ties and economic integration with armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. today, its formula, which was developed in 2008-2009, needs to be updated. recent developments in the region, particularly in belarus and the south caucasus, present new challenges. at the same time, they demonstrate the need to maintain the strategic importance of the european neighbourhood policy, especially in the context of russia's aggressive policy in the region. it is worth recalling that when the eastern partnership programme was being set up, russia received a proposal for cooperation which it did not accept. but it is not only russia, but also a number of other forces that would like the eu not to deal with eastern europe. ̨.from a historical perspective, the programme is somewhat to be criticized, as it has not been very successful, perhaps because it has had too little money y. positives are association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine in this context, it is worth mentioning the new regional initiative, the lublin triangle, which aims to deepen cooperation between ukraine, poland and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the idea is for a political cooperation format between eu countries and non-eu countries belonging to the eastern partnership. it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission to be involved in the process of negotiating the agreement. english.
in writing. the eastern partnership programme, which envisages closer political cooperation and greater economic integration with the six partner countries of eastern europe and the caucasus, has been operational since 2009, thanks in part to the efforts of the polish government. at the same time, some partner countries have started to implement a process of internal and systemic reforms. ukraine has taken a clear pro-european direction, and the failure of then-president yanukovych to sign an association agreement with the eu led to numerous protests that led to the creation of euromaidan. a few months later, russian aggression led first to the annexation of crimea, and then - through regular support for separatists - to the outbreak of war in donbas. since august, thousands of belarusians have been participating in peaceful demonstrations in the wake of the rigged presidential elections in belarus, despite numerous forms of repression, in order to change the direction of their country towards democracy. on september 27, the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan, which had been frozen for several years, erupted again in nagorno-karabakh. these are just some of the challenges facing the partner countries. i believe that further eu engagement can be more effective and efficient, and that action aimed at cooperation and dialogue can bring better results. the commission should continue to support these countries in various areas, especially now, in the context of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! the fact that we are discussing vocational training today is important and crucial. it's crucial to getting the economy back on its feet. all the issues here are strategic. from having a dual vocational school, meaning that the employer is in the school and the school and the students are in the employer, to having not only vocational skills but also soft skills taught in school, so that the young person can adapt to the changing digital reality all the time and throughout their life. the 4.0 revolution is a fact. so i'm glad the commissioner is talking about digital here. yes, she's very important here. digital for students, digital for teachers, and digital for simulating all kinds of devices to make this learning practical. of course, there is a language of the trade, a foreign language of the trade, which will ensure that mobility becomes a reality and that there are no barriers.
mr. chairman, please! continuing education and training is not only an ambitious challenge, but also a necessary one. it is crucial for achieving social and economic objectives. 60 million adults in the european union have low qualifications, 128 million have a low level of education. this is why it is very important to increase the participation of adults in lifelong learning. this increases their chances of employment, of being properly present in the labour market. digital skills are becoming more and more important, but they're aging faster than we are. we have to update them, keep up with them, and that's not easy. we should answer the following questions. why are few people interested in lifelong learning? how do we support them financially? what is the territorial availability of training? what is the appeal of these forms? how can we increase the skills of our learners so that they can find a better place in the labour market?
madam president! everyone heard the shout that everybody had won. reason won, justice won. it was after the eu summit, but it was worse after that. well, last monday i heard from one of the lawyers that the only thing that counts is the rule of law regulation, that if the european commission does not implement this regulation, the european parliament can revoke it (it is blackmail after all!), that the conclusions of the european council are not binding. i hope, therefore, that the european council's decisions were not a theatre under the auspices of the german presidency. i ask whether the european commission will refrain from applying an illegal regulation until the court of justice of the european union has ruled. i ask whether the lawyers who once justified the fascist and communist regimes will now decide justice in the european union. we can't let that happen. the poles suffered a lot during the partitions, the first and second world wars and during the communist period. we have fought for the freedom of many nations and we still believe that the union makes sense as long as it is a union of justice and follows the path of free nations with free and equal nations with equal.
madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the european council! i wanted to speak today on behalf of the majority of polish society, because the name of my country, which has been invoked here many times in the wrong context, forces me to explain that the polish government has not recently represented the will of the majority of polish society. the polish public welcomes the conclusions and decisions that give us some hope for the coming year. i hope to defend the fundamental values that we are bound to, and to defend democracy, because the rule of law mechanism is a very important instrument, and the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the media is important for every citizen. the protection and mobilisation of eu funds do indeed offer hope. a clear majority, because over 80% of the polish public puts their hopes in a stronger, not a weaker, european union and in the integration process, which we should support. on behalf of the polish people, i would like to thank all the negotiators very warmly. thank you and i wish you success next year, because polish society is pro-european.
madam president, all those here from the eurosceptic side who have criticised this package are completely right. indeed, this is a huge step in european integration, a historic step in european integration – eur 750 billion in recovery funds paid with the eu’s own resources, financed by eurobonds, and that linked to the rule of law. but, let’s also be honest. there is one shadow cast over this and that is the way, naturally, ms von der leyen and the european council have to ‘molest’ european treaties and principles to get over this blackmail by hungary and poland. i have here this fantastic opinion from the legal service – four paragraphs, no mention of one article of the treaty, no mention of one court case, and saying exactly the opposite. the reality is that what the european council did is not a coup d’état, but nearly a coup d’état. i think that the european parliament anyway has to examine whether or not we go to court over this because there is one thing and i will conclude with that. you cannot save the rule of law in a member state if you in fact ruin the rule of law of the union itself. (applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have been telling yourselves all morning that the compromise on the rule of law will not change anything. you have forced treaties, you want to ignore a council agreement, now you want to force the court of justice to destabilize governments of sovereign nations that do not bow to the dictatorship of the politically correct. you have failed to do so, but you have delivered a more divided europe. you've reached a climate agreement, pursuing the ultra-environmentalist ideology. the recovery fund's green money will be late and the carbon border tax will be even later. but the timetable includes the plastic tax from 1 january and a number of other limits and burdens which will affect our european companies and make them less competitive. you have been babbling about turkey with the proposal of soft individual sanctions, while sultan erdogan is the king of the mediterranean, the caucasus and the middle east. you are full of talk about the rule of law and you have not the courage to withdraw turkey's status as a candidate country. this is not the europe we want.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for me, this package has three messages. on the one hand, the european union is delivering. eur 1 800 billion budget for investment in the fight against the crisis and in our common future. eur 750 billion will be newly raised on the capital market for the first time in this amount. the nextgenerationeu pact is making the european union greener, more digital, more social, more independent. the rule of law mechanism strengthens the purpose of the allocation of funds. reducing co2 emissions by 55% by 2030 is a contribution to achieving the eu's climate targets. these facts bear the signature of the european parliament. the second message is that the unanimity, nationalism, insincerity and duplicity of some of the leaders of the states and governments are destroying these facts in public opinion. they blackmail, they weaken, they block the future of europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the unanimity must fall. wherever we have european tasks, community law must be the basis, and we must make it clear: the european council is not a legislator and therefore cannot interpret legal texts. the closing statement is a diversion. we are the legislator with the council.
madam president! a very difficult compromise was reached. on the one hand, the launch of the budget and the programmes to mitigate the effects of the pandemic is so eagerly awaited by the citizens of the member states, on the other hand, the package includes a regulation on the conditionality mechanism that is incompatible with the treaties. member states must have the sovereign right to act within their competence in accordance with their own constitutional order. the court of justice should therefore confirm the reservations concerning the cross-compliance mechanism. it is high time that the european parliament respected the decisions and conclusions of the leaders of the member states and stopped putting political pressure on the european commission on regulations that are not compatible with the treaties. it is high time that the rule of law was respected by the eu institutions. the president made a commitment in agreement with the council, and therefore the courage to implement it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been ten months since the epp group, on the initiative of the italian delegation, began to push for a common european response to the pandemic. it was february 18, and few could have imagined the consequences of the health crisis. after initially timid reactions, the union has, however, been able to rediscover the spirit of solidarity that is at its root. the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund must give a shock to our economy. we have achieved important results: eur 1 840 billion for investment; the decision to move towards a shared debt with recovery bonds, the common fight against covid-19 mark the turning point between the europe of austerity and that of solidarity. citizens, families and businesses have been waiting for months for concrete answers. we have made important progress, but not enough. we must do more to avoid further imbalances and to ensure social justice. if we want a strong europe, we cannot have a budget worth just over 1% of our gdp. we must harmonize the system of own resources - i am thinking of the tax on plastics - we must avoid distortions in the internal market, and we must propose fair taxation instead. the giants of the web don't have to be legibus soluti. like robin hood, we must make the powerful chinese and americans pay more to make our citizens pay less. since we have also achieved a good result on the rule of law, the german presidency has done well and i would like to conclude, mr president, by recalling that the rule of law has been violated in europe, even with the complicity of some governments, i am thinking of the murders of ján kuciak and daphne caruana galizia, these must be two events that we absolutely cannot forget if we want to defend the rule of law in our union.
madam president, we have reasons to celebrate the many achievements in the mff and the recovery fund – mainly thanks to the parliament, i have to say, and our excellent negotiators. but i have to say that the council conclusions, with the complicity of the commission, are unacceptable because they are a violation of the constitutional order of the european union. we are on a very slippery slope here, and i think it’s been said by many colleagues. the commission is the custodian of the treaties and the commission accepting instructions from the council is a blatant violation of article 17.3 of the treaty. the eu treaty is a constitutional treaty, it’s not a political text that is up for negotiation. as to the rule of law regulation, that is a law passed by both legislators. it must be applied in full, including the date of entry into force. that is not optional. the commission has no discretion to delay application, or apply only partially, or only after a court ruling. that’s simply not at the discretion of the commission. president von der leyen, we voted a year and a half ago to give our confidence to the commission, doing so expecting that it would operate as the custodian of the treaties, so i count on you to apply the law from 1 january. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conditionality mechanism to protect our financial resources, but ultimately to protect our rule of law, is a historic step and it is a huge political success for this parliament. without us, this conditionality mechanism would not exist. i really count on the commission to apply it directly, and i believe that it will be so. i would ask the council to consider whether we are going to look at these developments for as long, to watch them for as long and to let them go on as they have been going on for so long. but i want to say clearly today: it's a great step, and it's a right step. i expect the ecj to make a quick ruling, like brexit, so we can put this whole thing into effect immediately. but i would add that the commission must be able to trace how funds are used, in what way they are used, where there are problems, where people may not have the protection of the rule of law, where decisions are taken unilaterally, where money is misused, where people cannot find a neutral administration, cannot find independent judges, cannot find legal redress, etc. in these cases, we need to finally get into the digital age and get out of the stagecoach age. we need a digital monitoring and reporting system and an appropriate it system or a digital means of tracing funds for the commission, so that we can finally know who is abusing, who is cheating, so that we can also use artificial intelligence and so that we can also know who are the real beneficiaries, who is actually receiving the funds, what concentrations are taking place, where there is any abuse. we know that there are billions of dollars that are being misused in some of these countries. i ask for advice to go within and finally get away from the stagecoach age. they are still opposed to the digital system or to digitisation as such. this is completely anachronistic. i ask that the council finally approve our proposals accordingly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. well, that went well. on 16 december, 15 days before the end of the current multiannual financial framework, we will adopt the new one. but what a guy! i have watched with some despair as one presidency of the council has thrown this hot potato to the next without us having made any substantial progress. the gaps between the member states and between them and the european institutions were wide. but now we have a mff full of firsts: for the first time debt is being raised, the own resources base is being extended, the first financial compromise of the council has been overturned by this parliament, and all this with a german presidency in which the social democrats are setting the tone. or can anyone here imagine that a wolfgang schäuble would have acted like that? i can't do that. i can't. so, a heartfelt thank you to olaf scholz and also to you personally, dear michael roth. i have one more thing to say to you, madame von der leyen: this house expects - you have heard this several times this morning - that you will immediately apply the rule of law mechanism. finally, you are responsible for the implementation of the budget and also for its security. in the spring the commission will be asked to be relieved of its responsibility for the management of the budget. let's hope your department is as safe as it is.
madam president, last may, the president of the commission said that sooner or later our scientists will find a vaccine against the coronavirus, but that there is no vaccine against climate change. is there a vaccine against the diseases of authoritarianism and populism? i don't know, but i am convinced that democracy and the rule of law are as vital as the air we breathe. because there is also a democratic emergency within our union. we must therefore implement the rule of law regulation without delay. let us be proud of this major breakthrough for which we all fought hard for months - all of us except mr bellamy, if i understand correctly. you have made it very clear this morning, mrs von der leyen: it is your duty to implement european law without referral, without suspension, without any other guidelines than that of protecting the freedoms of the 447 million european citizens. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us stop with the veto threats. this is one more reason to start the conference on the future of europe as soon as possible.
madam president, mr president of the council, madam president of the commission, we are really facing a unique moment in the history of the european union when we were able to launch a fund in which there is a common debt and at the same time have a mechanism for monitoring the rule of law. but now, with the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework, mrs von der leyen, it is very important to ensure that the funds are well spent. its commissioner, elisa ferreira, said this week in the portuguese press that despite the massive support of portuguese state funds over the last 25 years, in which the socialists were in government for 18 of them, portugal is a backward country. now this is the last chance for many countries to stop being backward countries and we need to control how governments will spend the money: if you're going to spend it on digital transition, if you're going to spend it on climate transition. it's critical that we know that. and then it is also very important, mr president-in-office, that we, together with the commission, pay close attention to the question of the rule of law, because there are many leaders who, despite their love for the rule of law, are more concerned with the funds that come in than with the respect for values, and it is essential that we have the economic support, the financial support, but that it is not at the expense of those who are the principles and the pillars of an increasingly integrated union. that is what we have achieved with this next generation eu, which is indeed a huge progress, but which can only be a progress if, instead of being a way of financing national budgets, it is a way of integrating into policies, but also into values, all the peoples of europe, all the member states.
i think it is our moral obligation, mr president, to end 2020 with optimism and thus to welcome the agreement in the council, even though i share the scepticism of some of my colleagues on a number of issues relating to the rule of law. but let us assume that we have laid the foundations for recovery and for strong democracies in the european union. i also welcome the agreement on the 55%, on the climate. i think that is important, even though this parliament has voted 60% and that should immediately mean that we are keeping the bar high. i also want to make the link between the recovery fund and our climate ambitions, because recovery is not just about fixing our economy. we agreed before the pandemic that we needed a very different economy and a very different society, and this recovery fund should be the guarantee of that. my last words are for the new generation. because we all missed last year. many people have had a hard time, but we have not paid enough attention to the young people in our society. let's commit to them this perspective and make sure that that democracy and that new society will be climate resilient, that we have really agreed this for them in this european union.
madam president, over the years i have heard many times the words that europe is at a crossroads. finally, in a year when we have a member state leaving the union and a historic agreement where europe is raising debt together and we have rule of law conditionality for the eu budget and the recovery and resilience facility, i think this statement rings true. yes, we are at a crossroads, but it is a road we are crossing together. the house has stood firm in a legally—binding mechanism that ties eu money to respect of the rule of law in member states. this is born from a simple and irrefutable logic. member states that want eu money must stick to the basic values of democracy and the union. in a community of values, adherence to them in order to reap benefits should not be controversial. in total up to eur 1.8 trillion will be spent by 2027 to make european economies more sustainable and digital, thanks to the eur 750 billion recovery fund. i think great credit is due to the german presidency, and particularly angela merkel. at an epp group meeting some months ago, when the frugal four or five were in full voice, i remember saying to her that if she couldn’t get it over the line, no one could. well, she has, but she is probably too modest and mature to look for kudos. also, i am sick of listening to prime ministers and ministers around europe saying that they are allocating x millions for this and y millions for that without giving credit to the european union, where the money is coming from. i would ask ursula von der leyen and the commission to ensure that doesn’t happen in the next seven years. they might also give credit to the european parliament for the eur 16 billion extra we got for european programmes. don’t hold your breath though.
madam president! when orbán and kaczyński were fighting the windmills, people lost their jobs, feared for their health and financial security, got sick and died. it's a pity that we lost so much time by obstructing the two governments of poland and hungary, who defend the interests of the party and not the people. but we have come together against this absurd blackmail, and we have shown that the rule of law is the non-negotiable foundation of our community, that no country is above the law. through our unity and solidarity, we have created a mechanism that obliges everyone without exception to observe it. the grotesque fiction of cervantes' novel became reality at a certain point. don quixote and his loyal squire sancho pansa set out for a battle that was doomed to fail. fortunately, party egoism lost, and fortunately, the european community won. thank you for that.
madam president, they say that the most important is always the last european summit. the latter is doubly true. i am very pleased with the agreement on the european budget and in particular the recovery fund, because we know that we can only overcome the current crisis by joining forces in europe. the summit agreement means there's plenty of money, and it's all about the right investment. since jobs must always be the priority, we must always think of those who create them the most, namely small businesses. the summit conclusions clearly set a date of 1 january 2021 when european funds will be tied to respect for the rule of law. this is very good news for all those who are fighting for transparency and against the misuse of european funds. at the same time, i would like to stress that cultural and family legislation remains the responsibility of the member states and will always have to remain so. no sanctions or cuts can be imposed for such legislation. ladies and gentlemen, this summit has been a major milestone in the fight against the pandemic, for economic recovery and for climate protection. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this, in particular mrs ursula von der leyen and mrs angela merkel.
president of the commission. – madam president, i want to reinforce my message to the honourable members on the conditionality mechanism. indeed, the regulation will apply from 1 january 2021 onwards. no breach will go uncovered, no case will be lost. we will start the monitoring immediately and we will use all the additional instruments too, to defend the rule of law. monika hohlmeier has said it, and very rightly so: we need to digitalise. we have additional instruments now on top of the other ones. this is against corruption, against fraud, to find out and to dismantle the end beneficiary. this is important, that’s where the music plays. those who breach the rule of law will be held accountable. you can count on me and i know that i can count on you. in sum, allow me to thank you for this very rich debate at the end of this momentous year for europe. it brings back to me so many memories of the debates we have had this year. i remember coming to this house in the early months of the coronavirus crisis. we all know the picture often looked bleak. the numbers of infections were rising constantly. there was a feeling of control being lost, division between member states. we remember, in the spring, the doubts about the european union. well today we should take a moment to reflect on how far we have come. of course we still have work to do, of course we still have challenges and yes, we do have to focus on every detail to make sure that we get it right. whether it’s on the economy, the recovery, climate health, vaccination, brexit – all these topics are there. but we should also pause very briefly and look at the big picture, look at how far we have travelled together. thanks to our collective work, europe is moving forward faster than it has in decades. i want to pay tribute to this house for its ambition, for its dedication – you could feel it today, all day long again – and its real european leadership. this year we have shown that europe is not only united in diversity, but it is united in adversity too. it is always easier to tear things down, but instead we chose to build something new and stronger. in the face of an unprecedented crisis, europe stepped up with a massive recovery plan worth eur 1.8 trillion, next generation eu, the european green deal with ambitious goals and building our digital decade. this is history in the making, and it is still a big moment here, with a vote that is history in the making. 2020 will be a year to forget certainly, for so many, and for so many reasons, but it will also be a year to remember for the european union – the year we came together and moved forward together. the beginning of next generation eu, the beginning of europe raising capital on the market to reform and invest together, the beginning of shaping our european future after the pandemic. having said that, with pride and with confidence i say long live europe! (applause)
president of the european council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the broad support for the overall compromise proposed today. as many of you have said, the beginning of 2020 was marked by a crisis unprecedented in many decades. but it is true, it must be admitted, that in the first days, the first weeks, europe behaved rather in a dispersed way, on the basis of rather national reflexes. very quickly, however, because of the common will of the european parliament and the council, with the support of the commission, it was possible to ensure that supply chains were secured. the member states have been able to take measures to limit the spread of the virus. and then, most importantly, we managed to mobilize an international conference in a matter of weeks so that, very quickly, more than 16 billion euros were committed to support research and probably to enable, in just a few months, probably less than a year, whereas it usually takes eight to ten years, to develop a vaccine to deal with a disease that, a year ago, was largely unknown to scientists around the world. in 2020, we also faced the challenge of economic recovery and the necessary transformation. in july, thanks to proposals from member states, the european parliament and a proposal from the commission, unprecedented decisions were taken. never in its history has the european union had the budgetary firepower at its disposal as it has today, with €1.8 trillion that can be mobilised. not just any way, not to do anything, because we have clear ideas about the visionary role that is ours internationally and about this climate ambition that was anchored in the month of december 2019, with our ambition to achieve climate neutrality before 2050. and then, a few days ago, there was the decision to step up our efforts to 2030, which gives credibility to this ambition and reinforces the position of the european union as a global leader in the field of climate change. this european green deal is more than a prosperity project, it is also a social project to mobilise all european actors, citizens, young people, businesses, small, medium and large, governments, municipalities... to be together, to come together, to join hands, to roll up our sleeves to move forward, strong for this goal, which is so important. and it is true that in the coming months we will also be very active in ensuring that the values which have been the foundation of the european project since its inception, the dignity of every human being, are anchored. this dignity is based on the rule of law, it is based on non-discrimination, it is based on respect for fundamental freedoms, it is based on the guarantees of fairness when we are faced with differences or questions. that is what i want to stress today and that is probably one of the key elements of this decision taken at the european council: not a hair of the legal text of the conditionality mechanism has been affected by the decision. so, of course, i want to say solemnly and forcefully that the european council fully respects the division of responsibilities provided for in the treaties. in this context we also assume our political role because this assembly, which brings together not only the commission but also the 27 heads of state or government, has the responsibility of giving political guidelines. and when we face difficulties, as we do today, it is also our duty to take decisions to ensure that we can get the european union on the budgetary path, the values path and the climate path. believe me, after a year of modest but exciting experience of working in cooperation, also with parliament, my wish is to remain throughout 2021 committed to full and complete cooperation with all legitimate democratic institutions and, of course, also with the european parliament to move europe forward in the right direction. i conclude without triumphalism: we know the many challenges that still lie ahead of us - covid-19, climate, digital agenda, social transition - and the implications for our fellow citizens that are also linked to these topics. but i believe more than ever that, compared to a few months ago, compared to this covid-19 threat that has jostled us, that has shaken us, the european union is standing. the european union wants to be a quiet force, determined to act. the european union is on the move and wants to be up to speed.
i have received, pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions*. the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that, with regard to the honor report. gardiazabal rubial and of the honor. sarvamaa, no proposal to reject the council's position and no amendment was tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the rules of procedure. the proposed act is therefore approved. the votes of the recommendations of the honorary. olbrycht and honor. marques, of the report of the honor. gonzález pons and the motion for a resolution on the mff, conditionality linked to respect for the rule of law and own resources will be held today. the following table is added: see the minutes. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the use of eu taxpayers' money in the member states must be strictly targeted. the use of funds should be conditional on respect for the rule of law. contracts must be fair and transparent, and the investigation and prosecution must be independent. the repayment of the european union's single loan can be achieved by increasing member states' contributions to the community budget, by cutting budgetary expenditure in the aftermath of the crisis, by using additional own resources or by using a combination of all three options. i consider that additional own resources are necessary even without the obligation to repay the joint loan. i believe that the introduction of certain taxes, such as the introduction of a carbon levy, is necessary for the european union as a whole and for the member states individually, but it can only be effective as a common tax.
in writing. – the discussion we are having today is about three topics. first, we are not only speaking about the multiannual financial framework, which can be described as the roadmap for european social, green and pro-growth policies for the years. second, it is not only about the rule of law conditionality which i have supported relentlessly for a very long time not only in speeches and interviews, but also in my work on various files, sometime resulting in strong criticism of my words and efforts. yet the eu cannot be an atm that one uses but is surprised if it does not want to work if one does not stick to the instructions. third, a crucial point is that in front of our eyes we see the european union becoming a true fiscal entity, with its own resources and a debt that might give a great stimulus for our economies after the covid-19 crisis. these three main topics – socially friendly growth, the rule of law and unity should be the pillars of what we need to fight for in this house. a small victory happened during the last summit. still, many more fights are to come. long live europe!
in writing. we are meeting in parliament today to discuss the conclusions of the european union summit of 10 and 11 december, but also the very important issues that are closely linked to the conclusions of that summit: the multiannual financial framework, the rule of law conditionality and own resources in the common budget. it is extremely disturbing that once again in this room, instead of constructive discussion, we hear a grudge, especially against two independent and free nations. instead of building on the compromise reached by the states in the council and using this agreement to tackle the challenges facing the whole union at the end of 2020, the council's findings of last week are openly questioned or the commission is even blackmailed, threatened with dismissal if it does not implement the rule of law regulation. the leftist groups in this house falsely accuse poland of breaking the rule of law, while they themselves do not respect the provisions of the treaties that are the foundation of the eu. i repeat: the eu is founded on treaties, and the treaties state that each of the countries that make up the eu has the same value and the same dignity. so there can be no place for the terror of leftist correctness, which is being tried at all costs to impose on poland. agreement, agreement and compromise are the basis for the relief and remedial action that eu citizens are looking forward to more than idle ideological disputes over time.
in writing. hungary has won, the polish-hungarian cooperation has won, and all of europe has won. thanks to an agreement reached at the european council summit last week and the european parliament's decision to confirm the framework budget, hungary has protected the eu funds that are due to hungarians. the agreement also confirmed that no political conditions can be attached to the allocation and use of funds to hungarians under eu treaties. with the agreement, we have defended hungary's sovereignty. the right to decide for themselves on all matters within their national competence. there can be no ideological or political issue in which anyone can impose his will on us. we can choose our own destiny. in immigration, in who we want to live with, or even in family law. with the agreement, hungary has also protected the honor of hungarians, because it is impossible to accuse without any basis on any new legal norm. the political accusation of the left must not be allowed to return to the eu institutions. the hungarian left, during the budget negotiations, has been working with all its energy to harm hungary. he worked to take it away, to reduce subsidies, to gain political advantage for himself at the expense of hungary before the 2022 hungarian parliamentary elections. the attempt of the hungarian left was unsuccessful. by strengthening the agreement, central europe has gained a decisive influence in shaping important solutions.
in writing. the attempt to impose on poland and hungary, and in practice on all eu non-power countries, a system for assessing their rule of law in the absence of any specific criteria, leads to the conclusion that these will be discretionary criteria, each time adapted to the interests of the core eu powers: germany and france. by agreeing to this, these powers can punish governments that go against their will by withdrawing eu funds. it was an instrument to incite the public opinion of the countries thus punished against their governments with the intention of overthrowing them. today such actions are directed against two states, but in the future they may also be directed against greece, spain, italy and others. in principle, a regulation introducing a rule of law clause changes the european union's structure extra-treatyally, and this cannot be allowed.
in writing. it is good that poland and hungary have stopped using open blackmail against partners in the union and withdrawn their vetoes on the multiannual budget for 2021-2027 and the reconstruction fund. this was the only fair way out of the crisis, in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation between the member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2007-08 and that the council should adopt a regulation on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2007-08. unfortunately, the conclusions of the european council go far beyond its mandate under the treaties. i consider that the attempt to interfere with the independence of the european commission by requiring it not to propose measures under the budgetary conditionality mechanism until a possible ruling by the court of justice of the european union (since eu law will not be applied until then) and to narrow the scope of the regulation in question of the european parliament and the council clearly infringe the principle of institutional balance. the legal text cannot be changed by conclusions of the european council or by a unilateral declaration by the commission. however, concerns remain that some of the commitments resulting from the european council conclusions will not affect the commission's application of the regulation in a full and effective manner. we should do everything we can to ensure that the commission does not abdicate its role as guardian of the treaties. in this context, it should be recalled that the commission is subject to the political control of parliament, which appoints it and can ultimately dismiss it.
in writing. last week we reached a compromise, bringing to an end the difficult negotiations on the eu budget for the next seven years. this agreement not only gives europeans a guarantee of further economic and economic development of europe, but also an additional €750 billion for post-covid-19 recovery under the next generation eu. the conclusions of the last european council also respect the law of the treaties in the spirit of the sovereignty of the eu member states. the right to decide for ourselves what the future of our countries should be, without being subjected to unjust mechanisms based on discretionary and political criteria. i would like to stress that poland is not and has never been against the efficient and effective use of the eu budget, free from fraud and irregularities, as reflected in the conclusions adopted. i therefore believe that the european parliament and the european commission should fully respect the agreements between the heads of state and government by suspending the application of the cross-compliance regulation until the court of justice of the european union has taken a position and the european commission has developed guidelines in agreement with the member states. i believe this is a huge step towards further building not only a europe that is strong and economically competitive, but also a europe of equality and mutual respect.
in writing. the long negotiations on the eu's financial framework for 2021-2027 have reached an overall compromise. a solution was found to move forward with the adoption of the framework starting next year, despite the manipulative behaviour of poland and hungary, which hampered the adoption and implementation of financial measures. the overall amount of the mff was set at eur 1074.3 billion, with repayment of the budget at eur 1464.3 billion. the focus of the first years of the mfis will be on addressing the health crisis resulting from the covid-19 pandemic and improving the economic situation of member states. it should be noted that the crisis funding will not be provided at the expense of subsequent years. the political compromise covers not only the financial framework but also the future own resources system and the new eu's nextgenerationeu funding. health, agriculture, climate, innovation, social issues and education remain at the heart of funding, and the external dimension of the eu's neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument and the solidarity and emergency reserve have been increased.
in writing. – one notes with satisfaction the conclusion of the mff negotiations. we now have a seven—year budgetary framework for the eu. an extra recovery investment programme will enable member states to counter the coronavirus recession. a rule—of—law procedure prevents the allocation of eu funds for purposes that contradict the union’s fundamental values. however, the underlying realities must also be highlighted. these are that: eu decision—making structures are not delivering timely responses to crisis situations; masked by the recovery programme, targets initially set by the european commission and the european parliament as resources needed to carry out the eu’s programme have by far not been reached; the european council and the european parliament diverge totally on how to seek solutions to union challenges, such as on own resources; the european parliament is fuelling the perception that it wants more taxation on citizens – does this improve its political standing?; there has been little real progress in designing rule—of—law evaluative processes that minimise politicisation. rather than a conference on the future of europe, we need an intergovernmental conference to first identify the priorities by which to unlock the most important institutional issues.
in writing. let us clarify two things. first, the european council has no legislative powers. therefore, no political declaration, statement or promise made by the commission has legal force, is a source of law or can be considered as an interpretation of law. the interpretation of the law is the exclusive responsibility of the european court of justice. secondly, the european council, the european commission and the parliament must always exercise particular care and diligence in their public statements on human rights and the rule of law. unfortunately, last week's council position undermined the eu authorities' years of work to strengthen the community's legal system to ensure that member states' governments respect the union's values. the signal that the conditionality mechanism could be frozen until the ecj's ruling was received as a capitulation to the governments of poland and hungary. the council is well aware that such a decision, assuming it was legally binding at all, would delay by as much as two or three years the protection of the rights of eu citizens and the ability of community governments to enforce eu values effectively. the council's view is particularly relevant and poignant in a situation where the governments of poland and hungary have not only not reversed previous decisions targeting judicial freedom, the independence of civil society or the dignity of lgbt+ people, but are taking further political and legal decisions that constitute or may constitute significant violations of our values.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in many countries of the european union, including my country, poland, vaccinations against covid-19 are due to start as early as january. on the one hand, member states will face logistical challenges, and on the other hand, the european commission, through the actions of the implementing agencies, should ensure the safety, quality and effectiveness of the vaccine. i agree that we can accelerate the development, approval and distribution of vaccines, but the standards of quality, safety and efficacy must remain at the highest level. i wanted to ask how the european commission intends to support member states in organising and facilitating the logistics of the supporting infrastructure for the cold chain, cold transport and vaccine storage facilities. in order to combat the spread of misinformation, does the commission intend to launch a campaign on the benefits and importance of vaccination in building public trust immediately before the announcement of national coronavirus vaccination plans?
ladies and gentlemen! every day europe mourns the deaths of thousands. in each of our countries, we are mourning hundreds of new deaths every day, and we are all waiting for this vaccine to come like a light in a tunnel, but in reality, this vaccine is just the first step, because the real effects of covid-19 will be seen all over europe in the coming months. and in the coming months, we're going to see an increasing number of deaths from delayed cancer detection, delayed screening, lack of access. health systems in europe have stalled, and we must face that challenge today. the union's priorities are changing dramatically and we are facing global health challenges. we need to build a european health union, a common mechanism for rapid response to crises, to buy medicines and vaccines, to build procedures, to tackle the real problems that are ahead of us. covid-19 has exposed the fact that without close cooperation and joint action poland, europe and the world are helpless. the sooner we realize we have to work together, the safer we'll survive.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are talking about the security of our citizens, the security of europe, and on the other side we have criminals, and they are the most dangerous criminals: terrorism, human trafficking, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, child pornography. and on this scale, on one side, we have democratic states, and on the other side, we have ruthless criminals. can democratic states be defenseless? well, obviously the answer must be no. they can't be defenseless. they must find the strength and determination to fight the most dangerous crime. where do we see the danger? unfortunately, this threat is also present in our countries, because a few weeks ago we talked about the practice of some countries selling citizenship to even the most dangerous criminals. we have human trafficking, a trafficking that today is more profitable than the arms trade or the drug trade. what's the matter? member states, through various types of non-governmental organisations, also support these criminals. we can win this fight if we coordinate, if we work together. the police cannot be limited by political correctness, even in the fight against islamic terrorism. europe cannot be left defenceless. we will win this war on the condition that we are as ruthless and as determined as the most dangerous criminals.
we shall now proceed to the second round of voting for today. we will vote on the items as set out in the agenda. i would remind you that the voting will be open from 8 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same method as in previous rounds of voting. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i therefore declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the sitting will therefore be adjourned at 9.25 p.m. and will resume at 8.45 a.m. tomorrow with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
chair of the committee on legal affairs. – madam president, pursuant to rule 59(4) i request that the matter be referred back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
the request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal and the first vote of the day will be opened at 9.45 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the question to be answered orally to the commission by lídia pereira, marek paweł baltin, fredrick federley, simona baldassarren, pär holmgren, alexandr vondra and petros kokkalis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the eu strategy for adapting to climate change (o000075/2020 - b9-0029/20) (2020/2532 (((rsp)). members are informed that, again, no requested speeches will be given and no blue card questions will be accepted. this is a round of speeches by the political groups. i would also point out that the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states. i give the floor to the rapporteur, mrs lidia pereira, for five minutes.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is good to see you again. honourable members, the last five years were the hottest on record, with more frequent heatwaves, droughts and wildfires across europe. temporary drops in greenhouse gas emissions like those caused by the 2008 financial crisis and the current economic disruptions due to the covid—19 pandemic have little effect on the evolution of the planetary climate, and emissions can bounce back quickly. the special report on global warming of 1.5° celsius issued by the intergovernmental panel on climate change demonstrates that even in a best case scenario of sustained emission limitations, there will be large stress on agri—food systems, infrastructure, ecosystems and human health. the union was an early actor on adaptation, with the adoption in 2013 of a strategy on adaptation to climate change. this aimed to enhance the preparedness and capacity of all governance levels to respond to the impacts of climate change and make europe more climate resilient. the new strategy will draw on its evaluation that was finalised in 2018 and, of course, will also take account of the european green deal ambitions. efforts to measure resilience to climate change need to continue and to be upgraded and linked to a more ambitious monitoring and evaluation system. the 2013 strategy relied on the scoreboard to assess preparedness. the revised strategy could use a dashboard to assess resilience and subsequently monitor its strength over time, with regular progress reports on specific targets. at the same time, strengthening effective monitoring and evaluation tools for adaptation policies and measures in partner countries will continue to be of central interest for the union’s international action and support. the commission’s proposal for a european climate law provides a framework for progress in pursuit of the global adaptation goal established in article 7 of the paris agreement. the adaptation strategy will be designed to support the achievement of the objectives of the proposal. the governance will include a citizens’ dimension through the recently—launched climate pact. the revised strategy will be accompanied by an impact assessment and will draw on the latest available research results. adaptation action in general, and the strategy in particular, will benefit from the increased climate—related spending target in the next union seven—year budget, while the european investment bank has committed in its recently—adopted climate roadmap to support its implementation. stakeholders will be empowered to tackle climate impacts like desertification and land degradation. climate change adaptation and disaster risk management will be a key priority for the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund in the 2021—2027 period, with a place—based approach to improving the resilience of eu regions and cities. today, the speed of adaptation actions varies across the union, with all member states having adopted national adaptation strategies or plans. in the eu member states, most vulnerability assessments are being made, and adaptations identified, in respect of agriculture, health, biodiversity, forestry, energy, oceans and seas. the european environment agency concludes that even if the union and some countries have started to monitor the implementation of adaptation activities, it’s not possible to determine with any certainty whether decisive progress in increased resilience at union level has been achieved by 2020. while building resilience and adapting to the impacts of climate change is a challenge for all regions of the world, it’s the poorest and most vulnerable who are least able to adapt, both with the union and globally, for example because of limited resources, protracted crises or violence. globally, the union and its member states remain the largest contributor of international public climate finance for adaptation purposes to developing countries, in particular least—developed countries and small island developing states. the union and its member states are committed to scaling up their financial assistance in the future. water resources, forests and agricultural crops fulfil many critical productive and regulation functions upon which our societies depend, such as clean drinking water, carbon sequestration, abundant food, wood and forest products, outdoor recreation opportunities and habitat. ensuring water, forests and agriculture can withstand a changing climate is critical to reaching essential goals, including preserving ecosystem services and not least the carbon sequestration potential of forests. the commission will take this issue up in all fora, including for cities in the global covenant of mayors. this issue is essential and the commission welcomes parliament’s early engagement and clear signal for ambition. we look forward to the upcoming parliamentary resolution on the new strategy and to engaging in fruitful discussion on implementation once the commission adopts the new strategy. but may i say that we also have to take care that the issue of implementation is properly addressed in the different sectoral legislation. the reports i have received so far are not very promising, at this stage at least.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. the draft resolution on a climate change adaptation strategy for the european union is a very important document for the future of the people of the european union. i'm glad that this huge change called the green deal, led by mr. timmermans, has started, which is why, in addition to these actions that are supposed to minimize climate change, i decided to take care of adaptation to the effects of ongoing climate change that we feel every day. this is a real problem that all of humanity must face. the decisions we make now will be crucial to preventing the effects of climate change. the resolution touches on a number of important issues. i ask the commission to address them. the most important proposals include the development of urban strategies that will include the use of the potential of all urban infrastructure, such as urban gardens, green roofs and sidewalks. i know we're all aware of how much climate change will affect our lives and our environment. i am particularly interested in cities because today more than two thirds of europe's population live in urban areas, or more than 350 million people, and this figure is growing. an increase in air temperature of more than 1.5 degrees celsius can cause the ground temperature to rise to more than 60 degrees. that's why it's so important to green these areas, whether it's rooftops, roads, or even glass buildings. i am sure that at this very moment in europe there are investment projects being co-financed by the european union, and i would therefore ask you to tell me whether these projects have taken account of the effects of climate change at the design stage. if not, i would urge you and my colleagues to pay particular attention to this, as urban infrastructure can make a significant contribution to reducing the overall vulnerability of the union to climate change. to make a positive change, we must take into account many important environmental aspects. the investment plans of all member states and all areas that involve climate action, including research and development, must take account of our strategy. the development of appropriate rapid response plans for climate disasters such as heat waves, floods or droughts should not be forgotten. i'd like to address a number of the false allegations that i've been seeing on social media. they suggest that since there is abundant rainfall, resulting in floods and droughts, there is no drought or warming. ladies and gentlemen! if you ask a farmer if heavy rains irrigate crops, he will tell you that heavy rains do not provide enough water for the crops, because the water simply flows off the ground, often destroying the crops. i would therefore also like to draw particular attention to agriculture, which also faces many challenges in adapting to climate change. i would also like to call on all european local authorities to follow the example of european cities that have adopted local legislation to meet the european union's climate targets. achieving climate neutrality in terms of greenhouse gas emissions requires the active participation of both the government and local authorities, as well as all sectors of the economy and society as a whole. this will enable local authorities to be active partners for the industrial and construction sectors and, through the implementation of projects at local level, to actively support the implementation of the eu climate strategy. mother earth is responding to human activity, so all of us - regardless of the profession we represent - need to be aware of the seriousness of the problem and work together to prevent climate change.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. for climate, people and nature to be effective, at least three conditions must be met. first, education and civic awareness, second, consistent law, and third, money. and let me focus on the law of cohesion. strategy is important, and we appreciate you bringing it up. but we see what happens with the climate law, with article 4, which says that the strategy must be adopted by january 31. yes, until january 31st, but climate law is only in the early stages of discussion in the trilateral talks. all indications are that this will continue for many months. at the same time, climate law and the strategy for adaptation to climate change also imply changes in at least three regulations: the esf, lulucf or ets. and we don't see any work that's supposed to be there. and let me remind you that climate law clearly says that by the end of june 2021, every regulation must be reviewed and adapted to climate law. this is very important, because if we adopt laws that are different and don't see each other, there will be legal chaos, and that really doesn't help. at the same time, there is simply no money in the general budget, the multiannual financial framework and the budget for the reconstruction of europe for a climate change adaptation strategy and for biodiversity.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the adoption of the regulation we are discussing now, on the european public prosecutor's office, has made it necessary for the european commission to update the legal acts and to adapt the relevant provisions of the european union governing the area of combating fraud, both in terms of expenditure and revenue of the budget of the european union. it was crucial to ensure that the new legal framework of olaf ensured the ability to fulfil its statutory obligations without overlapping with the european public prosecutor's office, as well as the implementation of the areas vis-à-vis the european public prosecutor's offices of the member states and the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the new arrangements would enable olaf to conduct its investigations in a more efficient and coherent manner and thus contribute to the effective protection of the budget throughout the union. but there are some doubts here. the first is the possibility of encroaching on the competences of the member states, the second is the possibility of duplication, of duplication of powers between olaf and the european public prosecutor's office, and of national investigations. the role of the eppo is still unclear, and the possibility of extending the powers of both bodies in the future, for example through commission implementing acts, remains unclear.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate mr złotowski for the preparation of such a comprehensive report, in which he has rightly highlighted all aspects of the work of the committee on petitions and the challenges for the future. the committee on petitions is one of the few bodies that has direct contact with citizens. its efficient and effective functioning is therefore crucial for the image of the european parliament and for building trust in the european institutions. in the past year, we have not only managed to deal with a large number of petitions, but also to bring about legislative and political action in cooperation with our partners. the committee on petitions, listening to the voice of the citizens, carefully examines all their expectations in this respect. environmental and health issues were particularly important last year. preventing pollution, reducing waste and preventing diseases linked to harmful substances in food, soil, air and drinking water are key issues for europeans. another important issue is respecting the rights of persons with disabilities and creating conditions for their full access to inclusive education, counselling, employment, civil rights and cultural goods. the committee on petitions is an advocate for the full implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and an effective european disability strategy for the years ahead. i hope that, if the pandemic situation allows, we will be hosting the fifth european parliament of people with disabilities next year. i would like to thank the european commission for its cooperation and ask that in future the responses to petitioners be prepared as soon as possible and, more importantly, that they not be generic but respond precisely to complaints and questions. i would like to support the rapporteur's recommendations for greater involvement of the services responsible for communication in the promotion and information campaign. finally, i would like to thank the whole house (words not heard) and the various political groups for their tireless work and commitment. thank you so much! a healthy and merry christmas!
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven draft resolutions on iran, in particular the case of 2012 sakharov prize laureate nasrin sotoudeh (2020/2914 ((rsp))*._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
madam president, iran claims to be an islamic republic. yet, as this resolution makes clear, it is also one of the world’s most repressive regimes. i therefore have a question for the mullahs in tehran. if you represent a god that is good, powerful and merciful, then why do you need to repress, torture and murder your people to this extent? no. your regime is blasphemous and an abomination to every decent muslim, every person of faith and every person of conscience. you have brought your country to such desperate straits that you are now signing agreements with china to give away your energy sector and your critical infrastructure. they will not complain about your human rights abuses, but i’m not sure allah will be pleased that you are becoming vessels to a godless communist regime. however, if you want better relations and the easing of sanctions with us, stop this repression now! what you’re doing to your own people is inhumane. and one last thing. i have a request to the diplomats from our nation states and from our european external action service. next time you meet with mr zarif, who is a smiling ribbentrop, just remember what kind of nasty regime he represents.
madam president, it is already the third resolution of this parliament addressing the gross human rights violations in iran. there is no change or improvement in the situation. the mullahs’ regime continues the fight against its own society and remains the main threat to the iranian people. today we mourn iranian journalist ruhollah zam, who was executed on saturday. we worry that the iranian-swedish academic ahmadreza djalali might be the next, and express concerns over the deteriorating health of imprisoned sakharov prize laureate nasrin sotoudeh. we deplore the oppressive actions of the iranian regime, which is nothing more but weak in its incapacity to face critical political competition and embrace differences in opinion of people. we have to insist on a full and impartial un—led investigation of the 1988 massacre of thousands of political prisoners in iran and secure accountability by prosecuting perpetrators.
madam president, fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and assembly must always be respected. i strongly condemn the steadily deteriorating human rights situation in iran, including for persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities suffering from systematic political and social discrimination. we deplore iran’s abuse of the criminal justice system to repress peaceful activities that promote and defend human rights. i call on the iranian authorities to live up to their international obligations. in this context i welcome the adoption of the magnitsky act by the council as an important eu instrument to sanction violators of human rights. while maintaining the joint comprehensive plan of action and eu-iran high-level political dialogue, the eu, and especially the high representative, should continue raising human rights concerns with the iranian authorities in bilateral and multilateral fora.
madam president, yesterday we gave the sakharov prize to a woman, and to all those women who are opposing an authoritarian regime. i grew up in a communist regime and remember when i had the right to vote for the first time. now i’m standing here in the parliament, as a woman, as a member of parliament, looking at you, as a commissioner, a woman, and the president, who is a woman, and all these women who are fighting for the freedom of somebody when we still don’t know whether she is alive or dead or if she’s ill. she was the winner of our sakharov prize in 2012 and we are still negotiating and we are still talking to the regime that is holding this woman, scared, alone, forgotten by all of us. i feel ashamed. i feel ashamed as a woman and i feel ashamed as somebody who is looking at all of you, divided by ideology: who are we going to judge and condemn? which regime, and who, are we going to talk to? there is no negotiation with the people who are holding women in prison. as women, they have the courage to defend and to defend against all those who are oppressing people, who are oppressing minorities and who are oppressing all those who have different beliefs to their beliefs. please let us fight for this woman. let us fight for this man who is was waiting for his death sentence. let’s use our instruments. maybe we don’t have heavy weapons, but we have a new act that puts sanctions on all these regimes. let’s use them in a proper way without discrimination and without division. let’s use them and let’s make everybody not lose hope.
madam president! firstly, it is a very good practice for us to monitor what happens to the people who have been awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament. it is also positive in the context of this year's laureate, the belarusian opposition, which will still need this support, although i hope as soon as possible. and to return to iran, the regime is indeed moving forward, and that is why we must support all the efforts of the european institutions in the fight against this regime, in the fight for freedom of speech. we have received the devastating news of another execution for upholding basic values and principles in iran. i therefore call on the high representative of the union to step up all efforts to put pressure on the iranian regime and to defend these most important principles and core values. and, of course, we must do everything we can to get nasrin sotoudeh out of prison as soon as possible. this is a major task for the eu institutions.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president! the united kingdom left the european community, but it didn't leave europe. the united kingdom remains our neighbour, our ally and our economic partner. the establishment of a new relationship between the european union and the united kingdom is important not only because of the need for ongoing negotiations, but above all because of the need to maintain the unity of the west in an era of growing geopolitical challenges. the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom must take into account the very strong economic ties, shared values and convergence of objectives in many areas. at the same time, they must ensure an appropriate balance of rights and obligations and take into account the political sensitivities of each party. strong economic links mean that greater ambition is needed, not only in terms of access to each other's markets but also in terms of ensuring a level playing field. the future agreement should ensure that new border control procedures are minimised while maintaining high security standards. this is particularly the case for agri-food commodities, which are particularly sensitive to border delays and regulatory issues. we need new solutions in transport: the vast majority of road transport in the european union and the united kingdom is operated by eu carriers. the agreement should provide for very ambitious solutions in this area, unprecedented in eu trade agreements. i would like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the economic dimension, cooperation in the field of internal security and justice must also be an important pillar of cooperation. the uk has left the european union, but the common threats remain. the exchange of data for the purpose of fighting crime, judicial cooperation in criminal matters, simplified extradition procedures and, finally, cooperation within europol all these elements should comprise a new partnership. threats such as fanatical islamic terrorism, human trafficking, drug trafficking, arms trafficking are still very real. brexit does not change anything here, and our cooperation to ensure the safety of our citizens remains our top priority. there is another foundation that binds the united kingdom and the european union community. this foundation is based on values drawn from greek philosophy, roman law, the old and new testaments. one of these pillars is christianity. as christmas approaches, the celebration of the birth of jesus christ, all the best to all, including those who live in britain today, including over 700,000 of my fellow poles. - i'm not going to the party.
madam president! as the former president of the european council, donald tusk, said, the choice we face is either a hard brexit or no brexit. and it was his. today we are faced with either a hard brexit or an ultra-hard brexit. millions of europeans and britons and businesses still don't know what the deal will look like or if there will be a deal on january 1st. it's gonna take a million forms to fill out just to keep things pretty much the same. so i still don't understand what good is going to come of brexit. i would like to thank and congratulate the european commission, including our chief negotiator, for the professional and effective conduct of these negotiations, and in particular for agreeing that all european union citizens will be treated equally by the british. i want to make our compatriots aware that thanks to the support of the european union, we will not be discriminated against. and finally, i would like to say to our british friends that if we were negotiating with any other country and 12 days before the end of the transition period we didn't know what the outcome was, we would have ended those negotiations long ago. let this be the best proof of our friendship to great britain. madam president, i would like to wish everyone in this room and everyone in front of you a merry christmas and a happy new year.
