madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the violence with which the fires have struck australia can only leave us with a feeling of horror and dismay. in addition to the dozens of human losses we deplore, there is the loss of wildlife and biodiversity. that adds up to thousands of destroyed homes and an endless area of burned land. the terror and tragedy that australians are experiencing awakens in us feelings of desolation and solidarity. in portugal, unfortunately, we are well aware of this problem and have also suffered large losses in human and wildlife in recent years. extreme weather events are increasing in frequency and their destruction is irreparable. politics is about action. here in europe, we are making progress in the fight against climate change. we have taken on the ambition of a carbon neutral continent. the first in the world! the fires that have ravaged australia, california, portugal are warnings we cannot ignore. young europeans are aware of the urgency of respecting the planet. we need every country, every parliament, every citizen committed to this change. our full solidarity with the australian people.
madam president, commissioner, i think you have heard that we have a consensus in this parliament on this measure. we're all concerned about her being late. it is an important measure for consumers, as roaming has been in the past, and we need measures in the european union that touch people's lives. at a time when the two biggest challenges we face are the digital and environmental transitions, and we have already spoken about this here today, we cannot wait any longer for this initiative from the commission which so clearly serves consumers and the environment. so whether it is a measure implemented through regulation or standardization, or even both, to give the necessary flexibility for innovation, what cannot happen, commissioner, as you have heard here today, is that we wait another ten years for a universal charger, blocked by one company with the possible complicity of the others.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, it is not normal that we are so few. i want to start by saying this. in any case, thank you, commissioner, for what you have presented here today. we're really hopeful that we can work the fight against the wage gap in a meaningful way. this is affecting a lot of women, given the 16% gap we have. we must not forget that this has other consequences: the 35% pension gap, which is a direct consequence of the wage gap we have. and so, i think that what he said there are two things that are very important to me. firstly, we have had a specific strategy of our own, a specific action plan to combat the wage gap, which has worked little. i believe that, as part of the review of the strategy, it must be updated, with clear indicators, in order to be able to deal with the phenomenon. and then, of course, we are very anxiously awaiting the new directive on pay transparency, which you have already presented. i like the content of what you have mentioned: the fact that it is mandatory to carry out audits, that employees can know and employees can know the gender pay scales. i think it is very important also that we have a system of sanctions and protection for victims of the large pay gap in that piece of legislation. i am convinced, however, that you can count on this parliament. i think we can learn a lot from the experience of iceland, which has managed to reduce the wage gap to virtually zero with these measures. and finally, what i would recommend, or think we should do together, is to start working on an alliance in the council. i do not want this legislative text to end up like other proposals in the past, for example, blocked. and for that we need to build alliances in the council, and i take this opportunity to tell you that there is an excellent new minister for equality in the government of spain, irene montero, who i am sure will help you a lot to get this all going.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. indeed, the pay gap between women and men in the european union is still high, at about 16% on average. i'm lucky to be from poland, where the pay gap is currently at 7% and decreasing. as for female unemployment, poland has reduced it from 18% to 5%. but when you look at the global gender pay gap, there's really a lot to do. there are many reasons for the gender pay gap, but i believe that one of the main ones is women's responsibility to take care of their families. they raise children, often caring for elderly, sick parents. women are therefore more likely to work part-time and in less profitable sectors. so we need to think about how we can make the women who are fulfilling their role as mothers and caregivers of their sick parents pay the same wage. i want to emphasize one more thing, and that is that there is unfortunately a feminization of poverty. ladies earn less and have much lower pensions than men.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. inequalities can only be tackled by addressing their root causes through concrete measures such as raising workers' incomes in general and guaranteeing equal pay for men and women, promoting collective bargaining, firmly combating precariousness and regulating working hours. in addition, there is a need to provide protection for mothers, to create public networks of care for children and the elderly, and to require concrete measures to equip public services with the necessary financial, technical and human resources to intervene effectively in preventing and combating discrimination and breaches of the law. finally, we must defend the existence of a public, universal and solidarity-based social security system as the only guarantee of the right to a decent retirement pension and a less unequal future.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for her presentation and, above all, to tell you exactly what legislative initiatives the european commission intends to put into practice. and we trust her mandate because it is not enough to have a commissioner responsible for equal opportunities: it is essential that she has power within the commission on the one hand and the ability to influence the other members of the college on the other. but we expect a global strategy, and above all we expect that this global strategy will include several dimensions, that it will include all dimensions. and i would like to remind you here that if it is a fact that there is a 16 percent pay gap between men and women, that gap, that gap, has a huge impact on the future of women, because it has a huge impact on pensions.
mr president, on this cold night of debate some 700 000 people in europe will be sleeping on the streets or in shelters. it's a drama that's been escalating over the last decade. with the exception of finland, the problem has been worsening in all member states. i know that this problem requires a multifaceted response: housing is needed, of course, first and foremost, but a response is also needed in the social field, in the health field, in the psychological field. all of this has to be an integrated response, but the response is urgent. it is urgent and must be linked to other programmes that exist or are being promised by the present european commission: the child guarantee, the youth guarantee, the disability strategy, the action plan against poverty. but it is time to act, and europe needs an action plan to tackle this problem, an action plan with clear and ambitious targets, articulated with the member states, the regions and the municipalities. we cannot accept the idea of a european union in which there are people who have no right to have a home and who therefore live in the deepest social exclusion. we are counting on you, commissioner, to reverse this.
mr president, housing programmes have first produced results because they treat the homeless as citizens, responding to the housing problem and then working from there to solve other problems of poverty and social exclusion. in portugal, particularly in lisbon, a first housing-first programme is being implemented without a single support from the european union, and so, since the european commission likes the idea of housing-first, it was interesting to see if they intend to do anything about it, if they will have funding lines, or if at least the european commission, which has fought so hard for the liberalisation of the financial system and rental markets, for austerity policies that have taken away the purchasing power of european citizens and for the restriction of public investment policies a little bit across europe, has something to do, something to present, to support these programmes, or at least to stop undermining them.
mr president, in september 2018 the ‘housing first’ principle was introduced in ireland, and it has been successful in reducing the number of rough sleepers – those we visibly see on the streets of dublin, our capital city – not completely, but certainly it has had an impact. but it is a particular model, and it needs to be modified for every country. i’ve seen it work in the midlands of ireland where, for example, a derelict building was converted for 10 individuals who needed that extra support, and they have that and they are secure. but of course this debate – and commissioner, you’ve opened it out to be a much wider debate than just housing first because in my own country after the housing crisis we have now a real crisis still for some families who are living in emergency accommodation, and while we have built social housing – 10 000 last year – we still have significant numbers who need housing. so i think it’s useful to hear there are problems across europe, and it would be helpful to know that we would find common solutions. we equally need affordability. we need people with skills to build housing, so commissioner, if you can, with new energy i suppose, bring europe together on this housing crisis, i think it would be very helpful. but i would say that outside the parliament in brussels it is quite awful to see the number of homeless people who sleep in all sorts of weather, as it is here in strasbourg, as was referenced by a colleague.
mr president, commissioner, it is estimated that there are some 700 000 homeless people and 11 million families living in vulnerable and serious housing conditions in europe. and this number continues to rise, which shows that we live in a deeply unequal society. but for homeless people, there are real solutions, and we can see this through the finnish example with the housing first programme. this programme ensures primary access to adequate housing, but does not focus exclusively on: the commission's proposal is to extend the scope of the directive to social policies and to ensure coordinated action in the field of health and access to employment opportunities. it is also of key importance to mention that the eradication of extreme poverty is one of the priorities of agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals. we have therefore 10 years to ensure that this objective is achieved. and in portugal, also by the hand of the pan party, the national implementation of the housing first programme has begun. they're small steps, but they're important. but, commissioner, the challenge is not just for member states, and the commission must urgently move forward with a strategy to ensure that by 2030 no citizen is vulnerable to falling into the poverty trap.
mr president, in recent years the number of homeless people in the european union has increased. it is a complex issue, but it is not unrelated to the social degradation in this territory, the deregulation of labour, the liberalisation of the housing or energy markets or the privatisation of public services. the explosion in house prices in several member states has not been accompanied by rising incomes, with some tenants spending 40% or more of their household income on housing while many others live without adequate housing. the right to housing must be guaranteed as enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic. the debate on housing and the inclusion of homeless people is not possible without a public policy on housing that regulates markets, promotes public services, and ensures emergency social responses. it is not possible without the creation of conditions that guarantee the right to work with decent rights and wages as the core of a comprehensive policy of inclusion and development.
mr president, australia is devastated by the bushfires which have already destroyed an area of over 107 000 square kilometres, killed 28 people and incinerated over 1 million animals. but the growth of these extreme weather events had already been predicted by the scientific community. nothing that would deter the australian government from acting. worse, the current government publicly denies the impacts of climate change and actively promotes an economic and trade policy based on highly polluting sectors, such as the coal industry and the livestock sector. and it is against this backdrop that the european union continues to negotiate a trade agreement with australia to boost international trade and to lower tax barriers between economic blocs. as if ceta, which gives economic and political support to canada, which exploits oil from tar sands, and the agreement with the mercosur countries, which actively destroy the amazon, were not enough, europe is now moving towards another disastrous transnational climate agreement. the european commission and this parliament must put an end to this political and economic insanity of creating trade agreements at any price. it's time to stop. we're still on time.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the polish prime minister, and i apologize to the croatian prime minister, for including the adoption of the multiannual financial framework among his priorities. and it is with great satisfaction that i have heard that statement, just as it is with great satisfaction that i have heard the importance of maintaining the value of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy in the multiannual financial framework. we have a proposal on the table from the european commission, a proposal which the european commission is reinforcing by saying that 7.5 billion fresh money will be allocated to the just energy transition fund. but we also have the nego boxes presented by the finnish presidency. so my question to the prime minister is exactly what is your... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, we agree with the european commission's statements that the energy transition fund must be fair and that the green new deal must be social. but this is not possible if social and environmental objectives have to compete for a financial package that has been cut and if we continue to work on this double-dealing financial trick which consists of moving the same money back and forth, announcing new priorities, new acronyms, new funds, new propaganda, but making the new money available only to the militaristic and security obsession. nor by the trick of announcing 100 billion euros, money that will not be invested by the european union and that the european union does not know if others will invest. nor can we say that the green new deal will be social if we exclude from the just transition fund and all these policies regions of cohesion and regions that are on the front line of the consequences of climate change.
madam president, vice-presidents, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the european commission on presenting these three documents together in a comprehensive strategy. climate change creates economic and social inequalities and the european union must recognise this and act to combat these inequalities. we await their legislative initiatives. the regions of the union are in different states in terms of co2 emissions. member states and regions have been investing unevenly in the energy transition. portugal, for example, is well placed today in renewable energy because it has prioritized this ambition and has invested significantly here. all regions need to continue to be supported in the energy transition by promoting the modernisation of their economies and the re-skilling of people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of the green deal are to have a more developed and healthier europe, to halt the loss of biodiversity and pollution, and to reverse our management of goods and waste with a circular economy while promoting competitiveness and growth. let us not doubt that this transition is both an environmental necessity and an economic opportunity. the european sustainable investment plan is the investment pillar to deliver on this ambition, putting about 25% of the entire community budget at the service of this change. public and private contributions, the definition of sustainable investments and the promotion of links between investors and new ideas and technologies are part of a strategy to position europe as a global leader in a sustainable and growing economy. i think it is essential that we make a firm commitment to renewable energy, particularly solar energy, that this commission considers hydrogen as a serious possibility for decarbonisation and mobility and that it works to solve once and for all the problem of energy connections between the iberian peninsula and the rest of europe.
the history of europe and the world is marked by changes in the development model that have generated wealth and employment, but have also resulted in the disappearance of millions of jobs, social exclusion and marginalisation. over the past decades, the expansion and improvement of the european social model has been essential to mitigate the negative impacts of these structural changes on people's lives. for the first time in history, the drama of climate change makes the next shift in the development model - from a fossil fuel-based economy to a decarbonized, sustainable economy - an inevitable and scheduled shift. the european union therefore has a duty to create mechanisms that minimise the negative impact that environmental and climate change will have on the regions and sectors most dependent on carbon-intensive activities. the just transition fund, the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the european pillar of social rights are an important triad in ensuring that the european union of the future is a social and sustainable union, capable of breaking the old cycle which, with each new leap in the development model, created winners and losers.
madam president, the beginning of this year in the middle east was marked by the unilateral and irresponsible action of the united states which resulted in the extrajudicial execution of general soleimani. a monumental mistake in line with the denunciation of the nuclear deal with iran. we could ask why and for what, but that is not the most urgent. the apparently accidental shooting down of the ukrainian plane by iran and the incidents in iraq have led to increased tensions in the region. it is now up to the european union to make an effort to promote dialogue to defuse tensions and defend human rights, by demanding that iran stop the repression against those protesting in its streets for reforms. the delicacy and geopolitical relevance of the moment do not allow for hesitation. i therefore welcome the decision taken last friday to strengthen the mandate of the high representative and to try to save the nuclear agreement with iran. this was an agreement that took too long to put into practice and is fundamental to the region and the world. the european union must be united and determined to defend it.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, there has been a whole range of views, all very interesting but very different. if i had to describe to anyone the position of parliament after listening to you, i would not be able to do so because it is black and white, and there are very different views on a crisis which is very dangerous for all of us, you all agreed. first of all, i wanted to tell you that nobody has abandoned the iran nuclear deal. nobody has abandoned it. it is not i who believe that the jcpoa is essential for our security and must be kept; it is the foreign affairs council and it is also the three ministers of the e3 who share this view. i know that there is a certain contradiction between the letter i received signed by the foreign minister of the united kingdom and the prime minister of the united kingdom saying something which looks quite different from the letter i have read, but what counts for me is the letter, which is an official document which has to follow my action. the british minister says that the action they are proposing is not to abandon the deal and replace the obama deal with the trump deal. it says that they want to keep the deal alive and what they want is to use this mechanism, this process, in order to have leverage with respect to iran. no, no one has abandoned the deal. the international atomic energy agency continues to monitor and inspect iran's nuclear activities, and let's not forget that the jcpoa is embodied in a united nations security council resolution. it's not something that we europeans wrote one night here together. it took 10 years to reach this deal and it was approved by a united nations resolution, which nobody has canceled. it is still alive. so don't blame me and say, "mr. borrell, you have to change your mind". i'm coming here to explain not my mind that too but mainly what the foreign affairs council, after a long debate, has decided and what the letter from the three ministers says. we are certainly strongly committed to defending iraq's sovereignty, its territorial integrity and the importance of iraqi ownership of the country's internal political reform process. when my colleagues in the foreign affairs council give me a mandate to do whatever i can, to use all the tools of diplomacy and to talk with everybody everybody means, i say it again, everybody in order to look for a regional political solution, i understand that it is an invitation to keep in touch with the iraqi government. well, for the time being, the iraqi government is a caretaker government, but immediately afterwards - this meeting was on friday - i kept in touch with the iraqi government, even if it is a caretaker government, and on monday, the vice minister for foreign affairs of iraq was here having political consultations with the secretary general of the european external action service, and we agreed that we have to do more. someone asked me who can do more and how. well, just by developing the association agreement that we signed, which was ratified and entered into force in 2018, just doing that is a lot of things. it is a lot of work and a lot of possibilities. we have a mission there and we can reinforce that mission. this association agreement opens the door to a lot of relationships on trade, economics and security, and certainly we have to decide what we are going to do from the point of view of the foreign, defence and security policy with the mission that we have there. the soundest thing would be to reinforce it in order to help the iraqi government to avoid the country falling apart in any way because, after listening to all of you, i understand that all of you are completely aware of the very dramatic consequences that could come for our security if we have a crisis in iraq similar to the one we have been witnessing in syria. that is why in the coming days and weeks i will be engaged in diplomatic consultation with the iraqis and will offer our support and our help in order to continue the reform process in this country and avoid losing all the process and progress that has been made in recent years. we can have a lot of discussions about what the future will be, but for the time being one thing is clear: iran is not a nuclear power today thanks to the jcpoa and i don't see how we can build an alternative agreement. i really don't see it. everybody talks about this deal. some of you have been curious enough to have a look at it. it is a book like this, thick like this, full of technicalities, which it took 10 years to agree on. i really don't believe that it's going to be easy to build another agreement with the same complexity, dealing, in a much more complex and conflicted environment, with the current situation. so that's why i have to insist that for us europeans - and i'm speaking on behalf of the foreign affairs council - we have to do whatever we can in order to make this deal survive, and for that we clearly have to push and influence the iranians in order to fulfill all their commitments. but let me tell you one thing that i think i already told you at the beginning. the americans withdrew unilaterally from this deal and the iranians have respected their obligation for 14 months without any kind of setbacks. now they certainly have said that they don't feel bound by the constraints of this agreement, but it's one thing not to feel bound and another to go over to the other side. there only the international atomic energy agency can tell us how much and when it has happened. that's why you have to rely on the reports from this agency that, until now, has been a wise testimony of what's happening there. more engagement with iraq and try to deal with all parts of the nuclear deal in order to keep it alive. i can certainly also talk about the ukrainian plane. i can talk and try to answer all the many interesting issues that you have raised during your interventions, but unfortunately it would take too long. let me just say thank you for your contributions. i am sure we will continue to have to deal with this issue in this parliament.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the situation in iran has deteriorated seriously and civilian casualties are increasing. the downing of a ukrainian passenger plane is horrifying and makes it clear that everything that happens in the middle east directly affects europe. the eu must be clearly more active in the middle east in de-escalating tensions and finding solutions. it is important to find a solution to the nuclear deal with iran and it is important that the eu has a clearer vision of its middle east policy. this should certainly be one of the most important tasks of the eusr.
what has recently happened in iran and iraq is another step in the escalation of tension, provocation and aggression by the us and israel in the middle east, aimed at imposing the hegemony of us imperialism throughout the region. the action taken by the united states which led to the death of general soleimani and representatives of political movements in iraq and lebanon constitutes an unequivocal act of war, the consequences of which could lead to a conflict of unforeseeable proportions. strangely or not, this act of war has not been condemned by the member states or the eu itself. we reject the strategy of destabilisation of the region promoted by the united states and its allies. it is essential to comply with international law and respect for the sovereignty of peoples by condemning this aggression and the escalation of provocation in the middle east. it is essential to end the military occupation of iraq. it is essential to defend peace and reject war.
madam president, the presentation of this report is not the mere fulfillment of some bureaucratic ritual, it is the result of deep reflection and hard work of concertation and dialogue that requires a practical translation into the lives of thousands of people. i would therefore like to pay special tribute to the rapporteur, mrs isabel wiseler-lima, and to the shadow rapporteur for our political group, mr andrea cozzolino. i have a lot to say, but for the sake of time i shall limit myself to the following points in the report which we shall be voting on tomorrow. the importance given to civil society at a time when its space for action is increasingly being reduced; the emphasis on the importance of promoting freedom of expression and democracy at a time of great challenges; the reference to the need to strengthen the fight against impunity; the mention of the need to protect indigenous peoples who are increasingly exposed to all kinds of threats; the emphasis given to the forcibly displaced in a year when more than 70 million people were displaced; the importance given to gender equality. in the field of human rights, it is far more what unites us than what divides us. let us make this the driving force of the work we have to do in the european parliament.
the continuing deterioration of the political situation in libya and the consequent escalation of violence demand the utmost attention from the european union. the recent decision by the turkish national assembly to authorize military deployments to libya is further destabilizing the country and aggravating a conflict whose humanitarian situation has already reached dramatic proportions. in the face of this situation, the european union must play its role as a mediator in the peace process and promote dialogue as the only way to reach a political solution. the immediate evacuation and closure of libyan detention camps, places of shameful torture and slavery, and the guarantee of legal and safe routes out of the country are also required. in this regard, i consider it imperative that all international partners fully respect the arms embargo declared by the un and support the efforts of the un special representative and the berlin process as the only way to a peaceful, stable and secure libya.
madam president, we first of all greet the venezuelan deputies who are here, who are defenders of democracy in their country, supporters of president guaidó, interim president of venezuela and president of the national assembly, democratically elected, against the forces of mr maduro, the dictator, of military groups who tried to kill democracy again in this country of latin america. i therefore believe that europe should have the strength to react and not worry, as has often happened, and think that everything can be solved with humanitarian aid. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. this parliament has had the determination to recognize first of all guaidó as interim president of the bolivarian republic of venezuela; it will do so again by voting a document of great importance, which reiterates the illegality and reiterates everything negative that mr maduro is doing against his people, destroying democracy and stifling freedom. ecco perché io credo che sia giusto infliggere sanzioni nei confronti di tutti i responsabili del regime e queste sanzioni devono essere applicate a tutti coloro che hanno violato i diritti umani (that is why i believe that it is right to impose sanctions against all those responsible for the regime and that these sanctions should be applied to all those who have violated human rights). even from an economic point of view they have to be hit by the families who have benefited, the families of maduro's accomplices. i think it is important that the european commission, the high representative and all of us finally have the courage to take a firm, decisive and definitive stand against mr maduro and the venezuelan dictatorship. we cannot give up having courage!
madam president, the events of the past 5th in venezuela, preventing the democratically elected representatives of the people from entering the premises of the national assembly and exercising their functions freely, represent the crossing of a red line which can never be tolerated. events such as these only serve to exacerbate the polarization of venezuelan society and hinder efforts to promote a political solution, and thereby prolong the crisis and the suffering of the venezuelan people, along with the severe effects of a humanitarian crisis that has left 90% of its population living below poverty levels. since the beginning of this term alone, there have been three debates in this parliament on venezuela. in the last two years the situation in that country has been discussed in plenary eight times and this will be the seventh resolution on venezuela to be voted on in this period. we must move from words to deeds! the venezuelan people are tired and can't take it anymore. i therefore strongly support your determination, commissioner, to impose sanctions directly linked to those who promote the violation of democratic rules and the violation of human rights in venezuela, and at the same time to work together within the dialogue group to promote democratic, free and fair elections, under international supervision, to give the people back their voice. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr. high representative, we ended 2019 with a debate on venezuela and we started 2020 with another debate on another crisis. imagine seeing our president of the european parliament being blocked by the police outside this building, watching him try to climb a fence to get into this room. it sounds absurd, but that's what happened in venezuela last week with the president of the assembly, juan guaidó. unfortunately, such events are no longer surprising in venezuela. it is becoming increasingly clear that maduro has no intention of giving up power or negotiating a true democratic transition. democracy will only come when pressure forces the regime to negotiate the terms of its exit. i will therefore not tire of insisting that the european union must continue to put pressure on the regime with targeted sanctions and extend them to the families of those sanctioned, while supporting a peaceful dialogue.
madam president, we have already lost count of the debates on venezuela in this parliament. with each new debate, the creative frenzy increases and the lie grows louder. while feeding the puppet show they sponsored and the bloody coup attempt they tried to legitimize a year ago, they omit the escalation of sanctions already existing in the united states, but also by the european union against the bolivarian republic of venezuela which are choking its economy, with the terrible consequences for the venezuelan people that result from it, but also for the foreign communities residing there, such as the expressive portuguese community. but above all they are trying to hide, without success, the response they did not expect from a people who will not sell out, the firm resistance of a people who continue to assert their sovereignty, to reject the manoeuvres of external interference, but above all to defend unequivocally the right to build freely the future of a country that will no longer be colonized. and it is to the people of venezuela who are resisting that we express our solidarity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right that we should: no to the distortions of history. but no to distortions of the present. people wonder what this very expensive europe has changed since world war ii to the present day, 2020. and the answer is nothing, nothing has changed: in the second world war there were wars with missiles, with tanks, and there were conflicts between the european member states. in 2020, there are economic wars, trade wars and conflicts between european states. there are continuous conflicts today, there were continuous conflicts before. we see this in the dramatic scenario in libya: italy's position on the one hand, france's position on the other, and the non-existent europe that looks away from the war in libya. if avoiding wars for europe and the european project is to look the other way, it is certainly not the right way. the food labelling dispute, the daylight saving time dispute. but finally the illustrious president sassoli has arrived, and he will remove the conflicts of the member states by removing the flags of the founding countries of this europe from the benches of this parliament. i want to remind the president who 's paying for this cart: the european union is the people of europe and the countries of europe.
i have to say, madam president, i have a question on the agenda: would it be permissible in parliament to call a speaker a nutcase who says that nothing has changed between the second world war and today?
there are no blue-card speeches in this debate. was this a speech on the order of business, or was this a blue card? i'm afraid this is where it ends.
madam president, the right-wing strategy is clear. by mobilizing the majority in the european parliament, it is trying to promote anti-communism by rewriting history, spreading the most reactionary views and falsifications. but history cannot be rewritten, nor can the truth be changed. there is no lie here that can conceal the collusion of the big german monopolies with hitler or the conniving responsibilities of the big capitalist powers, such as the united kingdom or france, which paved the way for the outbreak of the second world war. there is no lie here that will erase the decisive and decisive role of the communists and the soviet union in the defeat of nazi-fascism, with the immense human and material costs to the soviet union that no other country has borne. a smokescreen that escapes the debate on how the policies of the european union promote regressions of a civilizational dimension, attacking social and labour rights, national sovereignty and democracy, and which are, as in the past, at the origin of the resurgence of extreme right-wing and fascist forces.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we support the resolution which parliament is going to vote on and which the econ committee has brought to this debate. unfortunately, it seems that what the european commission has brought us has been a disappointment. this is the usual practice, and has been the practice in successive european commissions. in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, the then president of the european commission said that the influence of the financial industry on european policies had to be rebalanced with the influence of citizens. the president of the european commission who made this beautiful statement was called durão barroso and, as we all know, he ended up at goldman sachs. and this problem, which is an endemic problem in multiple european institutions, becomes infinitely more serious every time we discuss the financial system and its regulators in european committees, in various regulators, in the european parliament. the decisions taken by the european banking authority in the farkas case are, as has already been said, a bad joke. the restrictions that are imposed on you not to contact people who work at the authority, even if this restriction could be monitored and cannot, obviously does not prevent you from passing on your phone book to your new colleagues. it is ridiculous and would be laughable if this were not such a serious matter, the restriction not to use the information that has accumulated in eight years in the european banking authority in its new functions, which are lobbying functions, in which the european banking authority is a central regulator. mr. farkas will be paid to use that information. the salary he'll be receiving is the price of that information. and what the european commission has come here to tell us is that the principle of regulator independence basically means that the democratic institutions that european citizens elected can do nothing, which means that important regulators like the european banking authority can be fully captured by the economic sectors that they aim to regulate. it should also be stressed that this decision we are discussing is taken by a president of the european banking authority who himself comes from a position of lobbying at santander, and so this story, this novella in the european banking authority, already has many episodes. and although this is a serious matter, i cannot help but smile when the right to work is invoked. what we're discussing is the right to go directly from a regulator to a lobby position. the right to work? if european workers were as protected by european institutions as this man is being protected, who went from being a regulator to a lobbyist, europe would be much better off.
the european union is also calling for the release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody, and for the release of all political prisoners. the case of the journalists and their driver arrested in late 2019 is just one more in a long list of cases of serious human rights violations committed in this country. the united nations, through its secretary-general and the human rights council, has raised serious concerns about the human rights situation in general and respect for freedom of expression in particular: assassinations, torture, arbitrary detention and other forms of inhuman treatment are mentioned by the united nations, all in a climate of widespread impunity. the cases of violation of freedom of expression which we are discussing today are a reflection of this widespread repression and should be strongly condemned. we therefore call for the release of the four journalists arrested at the end of the year - christine kamikazi, agnès ndirubusa, térence mpozenzi, egide harerimana and their driver, adolphe masabarikiza - and for the conditions to be created for free and democratic elections next may.
mr president, commissioner, since december 2019 to date more than six thousand people have been infected with the corona virus and more than a hundred have died due to its effects. even though we know the outbreak is most intense in china, the virus has already reached the united states of america, canada, australia and even here in europe. in this respect we must not forget that china is the main source of imports for the european union, and we in the eu follow the recommendations of the world health organisation, thus achieving high food safety and quality standards. china, by contrast, does not hold itself to the same standards. however, it still enjoys privileged trade openness from the european union. in exchange for this openness of ours it seems that we have now received a deadly virus, which is not only affecting the chinese but much of the world. china's irresponsibility in terms of food safety and hygiene must be strongly questioned by this european union.
mr president, commissioner, the coronavirus epidemic is not a cause for panic, but it is a cause for concern and for concerted action. over 100 people have died, there are cases diagnosed in 18 different countries. we all know that the epidemic started in china, which is where it's most concerning, and we all know that taiwan is also a very important hub in that geographical area of east asia. that is why, from my point of view, it is very worrying to hear that taiwanese experts are not included in the high-level expert meeting convened by the world health organization. geopolitical considerations cannot be more relevant than the protection of public health and the health of all the world's citizens, and i would like to know what the european institutions, and in particular the european commission, think they are doing to ensure that taiwan is actively involved in combating this epidemic, which is also essential for us europeans.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet in the european union. over 80% of the world's biodiversity is in their care, as are the vast majority of forests. although there are only 370 million people who identify as members of indigenous peoples, they account for almost a quarter of the planet, and are therefore the first to suffer the effects of extreme climate change and the struggle for resources. from asia to the amazon, from the arctic to oceania, indigenous communities fight to defend their heritage and their history, and when they do, they are constantly the victims of attacks, occupation, militarization of territories, intimidation, violence and torture that so often lead to death actions dictated by the ravages of extractive industries, deforestation, mining, agribusiness, with total impunity and so often by the actions of the states themselves. at a recent gathering of indigenous peoples in the amazon, sakharov prize finalist chief raoni metuktire stated that in brazil, threats to these communities and environmentalists have escalated dramatically. the policies advocated by the bolsonaro government for indigenous territories represent genocide, ethnocide and ecocide, and i emphasize these words. indigenous peoples are among the most vulnerable people in the world. they make up only 5% of the population, but they represent 15% of the people living in poverty. we have heard many speeches, we have seen many talks, but we must move from political recognition to action. and so i ask you, commissioner, knowing that many of these problems arise from the struggle for the exploitation of land and resources, how do you see the responsibility of predatory european companies and how do you see the implementation of the european mechanism to ban the import of products and raw materials taken from indigenous territories without authorisation and in violation of the right to consultation?
madam president, systematic and institutional discrimination against indigenous people is alive and well, and it’s not confined to one continent or one field, it’s across the board: health, employment, social protection, on top of historic injustices that they have faced from dispossession of their lands, territories and resources. so when we look at the challenges, whether it’s the amazon rainforest lost to flames or the catastrophe of the fires in australia, indigenous people offer the world innovative solutions, solving some of the biggest challenges. according to the united nations, the world has an estimated 370 million indigenous people. they make up about one third of the world’s 900 million people in rural areas who are classified as extremely poor. yet indigenous voices continue to be marginalised. in the mainstream media and in politics, their struggle for equal rights remains unheard. indigenous women, in particular, suffer from multiple discrimination, both as women and based on their indigenous status. the commission really needs to ensure that these rights are upheld and that they have a seat at the decision-making table.
madam president, phrases such as 'increasingly the indian is a human being like us' or 'dream of a bolivia free of indigenous satanic rituals' by jair bolsonaro in brazil and jeanine áñez in bolivia are representative of the way capitalism views indigenous peoples, the native populations of invaded, occupied and exploited territories from north to south america and from the pacific islands to australia. the trail of centuries of occupation is death and dispossession. these peoples are still generally regarded as sub-human, an obstacle to capitalist territorial and cultural colonization in its quest to appropriate and exploit natural resources, even if this means continually trampling on national legislation, un resolutions and thousands of human lives. the european union, by its support for coups d'état or free trade agreements, is complicit in the murder, the occupation of territorial reserves, the loss of cultural heritage and the daily violation of the rights of indigenous peoples.
madam president, i listened with interest to the commissioner's speech. it's good that he wants to focus his attention on the issue of underage refugee children, the tragedy is huge, colleagues have described it. the new commission can certainly do a lot of work here, but i would urge you, commissioner, to discuss the functioning of bilateral aid in the council debate. i am from the czech republic, as my colleague mrs. šojdrová has already mentioned. in the czech republic, due to pressure from civil society, but also due to the huge contribution of ms. šojdra, whom i want to thank here, the government finally decided to take in the children of refugees from greece, but the whole process took many weeks and finally came to a halt, ended in shame, ended in an embarrassing situation where it is now unclear whether the czech government finally refused to take in the children or was a mistake due to the administrative burden of the greek authorities. so here too, the role of the commission and the council is to make bilateral relations work better, to avoid looking for obstacles, but rather to help.
madam president, the situation described by doctors without borders of several thousand children in refugee camps on the greek islands is appalling. these are children who struggle for food in overcrowded fields, sleep in the mud, suffer from severe psychological problems, stop eating, drinking and sleeping. many self-injury, suicide attempts, and some even succeed in ending their life. these children and adolescents have fled hunger and war, especially from afghanistan, syria, iraq and somalia, countries devastated by military aggression in which the european union and its powers bear a great deal of responsibility. the same european union which wants to be seen as a champion of human rights hypocritically coexists with a situation which it has created. the overcrowding of these camps is not independent of the increasingly selective, restrictive and inhumane migration policies promoted by the european union. the european union therefore has a double responsibility: what is required is an end to destabilisation, interference and aggression against third countries and scrupulous compliance with international law on migration.
madam president, four years ago, at cop 22, the portuguese prime minister, dr antónio costa, committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. it even said that one of its priorities was to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. but contrary to what was announced, the portuguese government is today moving forward with the construction of a commercial airport at montijo. it is thus moving forward without the support of civil society, without an environmental impact assessment, without considering the impacts on the reservoirs of the tagus estuary, without studies of tourist capacity and without studying the complementary option of beja airport. in fact, the best justification given by the government for rejecting the already built and paid for beja airport is that it is and i quote too far away. we assume that it is far from the capital, but, dear friends, neither is this true nor is portugal just lisbon.
madam president, there is at the moment in portugal a strategy of attacking the national health service by attacking health workers and a systematic lack of investment in resources and infrastructure. the door has been opened wide for the privatization of health care, making it a highly lucrative business for economic groups. this offensive is in line with the european union's impositions and constraints, which do not serve the country. the country recommendations under the european semester insist on cuts in health spending when what is urgently needed is more investment to meet the needs of north-south populations in the various health and health units, in their central or local response. a free, high-quality, public national health service, as enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic, is what the country needs. this requires putting the interests of the country ahead of the interests of the european union.
mr president, one has to start by saying that our key priorities were taken on board by the european commission. this is overall a good document – a job well done by you, mr vice-president. make no mistake: this is indeed an important debate and an important document. but all words that could bring the european project forward have already been written or said. now we must act. we must act to be at the forefront of decarbonisation and we must guarantee that no one is left behind. we can’t win the decarbonisation war with an army of unemployed people, and the transition we will not be just or effective if it does not stretch over our frontiers. we must be more solid. we do need an economy that works for the people, and we need to complete economic and monetary union. but for all of this to be of any relevance, we need to put our money where our mouth is. no more time for beautiful words. we need to find the money and we need to agree on a bold multiannual financial framework (mff).
mr president, the commission's programme for better regulation, i must say to you, commissioner, is a little bit more of the same. in any case, apart from the feeds for the future platform, it does not bring us any great news. my question is: how does the commission intend to use technology, artificial intelligence, of which it speaks so much, to improve its own services, to modernise its own structure, for example in the area of community funds, to facilitate and speed up access, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises, without losing control and evaluation? here too, artificial intelligence and new technologies can help to bring european institutions closer to the citizens.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking vice-president šefčovič for presenting this commission work programme to us in the necessary detail so that this parliament can understand exactly what the european commission's ambition is for this first year. we regret that there is no longer a multiannual dimension to the commission's mandate, but we have an idea of what the commission intends to launch this year. i have two minor points of detail, because time does not permit me to do more. the first concerns the challenge facing the commission to create the conditions for citizens to believe more in the european project. and so the question of democracy is a very important question and interinstitutional cooperation. a second point has to do with the financing of these policies. in other words, we, the european institutions, can only be credible if, in fact, the citizens understand that the political proposals we make also have the necessary and sufficient financial ambition to implement these policies. and we would like the european commission to be parliament's ally in this negotiation.
mr president, despite the green and social propaganda that your programmes reproduce, the objectives remain focused on the deepening of policies of impoverishment of peoples, of suffocation of development and assault on the sovereignty of states, of policies of interference and aggression against third countries. they promote a so-called ecological pact, ignoring the failure of the growth strategies that preceded this policy and basing themselves on the same neoliberal premises, on market mechanisms, without questioning the predatory exploitation of resources that leads to the ecological imbalances we face. a social pillar that whitewashes exploitation policies and attacks social rights and public services, these policies being promoted by the european union with a leveling down. the european commission has criticised portugal for raising the minimum wage or for its indefinite contracts in the context of the european semester, a tool for the single currency, which it also intends to deepen by imposing more constraints on the member states. from here we will continue to denounce to the portuguese people the cat they want to sell for a hare and the harmful consequences for the country.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s a pleasure to respond to the very emotional interventions of our honourable members – especially from spain – on the disaster caused by storm gloria in front of a full house because i think that this disaster clearly gives us another example that climate change can no longer be ignored because it has become a real climate emergency. therefore, i absolutely agree with ms montserrat, who said that we must act quickly, with flexibility and the necessary speed. i would like to assure you, mr president and honourable members, that the new commission has geared its political objective and the work programme to meet this challenge head—on in the years to come. i would also like to underline that i very well understand the point made by ms maestre martín de almagro that, if it comes to the size and the scope of such a disaster imposed on the local economy, we fully understand the dramatic consequences. i would like to thank mr gonzález pons for making a very plastic picture – how not one, not two, but a series of financial disasters can really devastate the whole region. at this point, i would like to reassure all of you that the commission is committed to helping spain and other member states if they are affected by natural disasters in every way possible. the only thing i would like to make clear here, as well, is that we all have to act much more swiftly because you know that the rules which have been approved by you require that first the application comes as quickly as possible so we can act very quickly in the commission and mobilise the necessary funds. i want to reassure you that we would not delay it by one day: once we get the application, we act very quickly but, unfortunately, the mobilisation takes time because it needs approval of the european parliament and also the council. therefore, we just mobilised the advance payments for the dana (depresión aislada en niveles altos) disaster and we are waiting for the application which will be presented by spanish authorities for the gloria disaster. at the same time, i would also like to highlight the fact that the solidarity fund is not the instrument that we have at our disposal. the cap and structural funds could be used to alleviate the pressures caused by such a natural disaster. maybe in the future, it would be one topic to debate: what can we do together to make sure that the solidarity fund could be mobilised much faster? and what other instruments can we use to help the people in such distress caused by the disasters, which unfortunately, we’ll probably see more often because of the climate emergency?
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the situation in spain is an emergency and to an emergency we must respond urgently! the problem is not only in spain! over two million citizens in europe are exposed to coastal flooding. solidarity is needed in natural disasters, but prevention is also needed. in addition to the civil protection mechanism, we need to have an alert system that works in all member states and can be used by all citizens. that is why i propose that in the commission's programme you review the way the measures, the protection units work and increase prevention measures throughout the eu.
in writing. once again, an extreme weather event in europe has highlighted our immense vulnerability to natural phenomena. the balance sheet of the number of people killed, injured and the material damage should make us ashamed as a society and should make us take action. in portugal too, in the districts of castelo branco, guarda, viseu and coimbra, the storm glória left a trail of destruction, with people injured, houses destroyed, numerous trees uprooted, cars crushed and roads blocked. we want to send our solidarity to all those affected in portugal and spain. we ask that the european union should be able to mobilise the solidarity fund without delay to compensate in some way for the losses suffered. we also call for, apart from the loud announcements that the eu has already made us accustomed to not following up, that, given the certainty that these climatic phenomena will be more frequent, emergency response strategies be set up, with adequate means and on the basis of strategic civil protection plans defined in each member state.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 30 january 2020.
good evening colleagues. i beg your forgiveness for a slightly late start to the session. the president, as many colleagues, is delayed and makes his apologies to colleagues. many of us had some flight issues. my flight tried to land twice in basel and failed, but it did land in strasbourg, which is why i am here. so that was a happy relief for me, but obviously i know other colleagues have had difficult journeys. and bear with me, because i have literally just received the files and i will do my very best. *** i want to make an announcement please. on the occasion of the day of remembrance which is commemorated today, i would like to honour the memory of the italian victims and all the victims of the foibe massacres and the exodus of istrians, rijekans and dalmatians from their land during and after the second world war. the defence of democracy and tolerance and our daily commitment to european values are the best tribute to all those who are victims of these tragedies. the transition from opposing power blocs to a union for peace shows how important it is to continue working together for a europe that puts values and respect for all its citizens in first place. dear colleagues, we will stand for a moment in silence. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
following the new composition of parliament and the numerical composition of the permanent committees adopted on 15 january 2020, i have received from the political groups and from the non-attached members the appointments for parliament’s committees, in accordance with rule 209. the lists of the members appointed to parliament’s committees are published on parliament’s website and will be annexed to the minutes. ***
thank you for that information, ms aubry. we will pass it on to the president and ask him to take note. there is another point of order, from ms pereira.
madam president, i invoke rule 196 of the rules of procedure to draw the attention of this parliament, at a time when an official visit to el salvador by the delegation for relations with the countries of central america is being prepared, to the fact that yesterday, on orders from the president of that country, military and police forces invaded the congress, in violation of the constitution of the republic of el salvador and seeking to intimidate and blackmail that parliament, undermining the democratic rule of law and peace. we hereby express our solidarity with the democratic forces in el salvador, which denounce this unacceptable situation and demand that the european union and its institutions do not contribute to whitewashing this act of authoritarianism with a coup-like character.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, i should like to begin by thanking you for your proposal and for the opportunity to have this debate here. the rules of the stability and growth pact show weaknesses. by 2020, the public investment rate is forecast to be below pre-crisis levels in almost half of the member states. public investment is an essential condition for supporting sustainable growth. long-term sustainability may be compromised. in this ongoing review it is important to: first, ensure the promotion of countercyclical policies; second, strike a balance between a less complex and simple framework, and at the same time, a framework that is as flexible as necessary and sufficient; third, exploit the flexibility of the budgetary rules, in particular towards greener investment, and understand whether this is sufficient to make the necessary change to the euro area budgetary strategy; fourth, promote greater transparency with indicators and methodologies that ensure more democracy and greater ownership and accountability by member states.
madam president, this is a core debate for the future of europe and of the eurozone in particular. we have managed to stabilise the economic and budgetary situation in europe as a whole, but i would say that the current economic governance has had a limited and not always positive role in this achievement. we need the margin for long—term growth through investment, particularly green investment. we need a framework that is more concerned about the sustainability of growth, not just short—term budgetary indicators. we need much more flexibility at times of difficulties and particularly countercyclical and not pro-cyclical rules. and we need true macroeconomic equilibrium for all, not just for some. otherwise, we risk prolonged stagnation in europe and, one day, we will be condemned to be exporting to mars, if some countries insist in not correcting their huge surpluses. tough challenges we have, but the very critical one is ahead of us. let’s embrace it, commissioner.
madam president, the enlargement policy of the european union is one of its most important tools and a cornerstone in promoting democracy, the rule of law, peace and prosperity. this proposal for a revision of the enlargement methodology represents a new moment after the october debacle, reinforcing the political dynamic of the accession process and introducing greater predictability into it by focusing on the definition of clear objectives, which ensure the taking of decisions based on merit, a fundamental step towards greater confidence. the strengthening of the preponderance of institutional reform, respect for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in the whole of the accession files is in line with the concerns always expressed by the socialist and democratic group and we therefore welcome the importance given to this issue in the whole of this proposal. but i cannot help but note the timidity with which the commissioner has addressed this subject at this meeting, unlike at other meetings. i also stress the importance of involving the member states more directly and i hope that a mechanism will be set up to provide increased incentives for the accession countries to adopt the policies of the european union, in order to ensure the economic and political convergence which is essential for successful integration. as rapporteur for albania, i cannot but emphasize strongly that we will not accept that this reform can be used to make the accession processes under way more difficult, delay or prevent them, especially with albania and macedonia, with which parliament, the commission and the council have a commitment ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, machine learning still has a hard time doing things that we consider easy. for example, a neural network whose goal was to distinguish between dogs and wolves learned to distinguish them, not by what normally distinguishes these two animals, but only by their environment. so images with grass were classified as dogs and those with snow as wolves. this example may seem innocuous, but it's based on the same learning mechanisms that are implemented in digital platforms that make automated decisions. they are the ones who recommend certain products or services to us, make some more visible and hide others. these mechanisms, of course, can also be used for collective benefits, including to improve our public services, if we have some caution, ethical caution, regulatory caution, and governance caution. the resolution calls for greater transparency in the algorithms that feed this learning, so as to give consumers confidence in their choices and, above all, confidence when they interact with automated systems, knowing, for example, whether they are talking to a chatbot or a human behind the system. we also draw attention to the impact that these systems can have on product safety, as the commissioner has already mentioned, and on the rules on liability in the event of defects. and finally, we stress the need for the data, the databases used to train these algorithms, the crucial point, as you mentioned, to be of the right quality and to be auditable, with clear governance rules to ensure, as far as technically possible, the removal of any bias. mr president, commissioner, when it comes to the time for a walk in the woods, we should rely on the system that warns us: don't worry, it is a dog and not a wolf that is approaching.
mr president, in 2005 a service called 'business at the hour' was set up in portugal. it allowed a company to open in an average of forty-five minutes and thirty-six seconds, whereas before it took fifty-five days. better regulation does not mean less regulation, nor does it mean less protection for consumers, workers or the environment. it means using technology and even artificial intelligence to eliminate unnecessary procedures, making life easier for citizens and businesses. this push for simpler regulation to comply with is especially relevant for small and medium-sized enterprises. large companies have and can fund compliance departments. small businesses cannot allocate resources to these tasks without damaging their business. leaving behind the small businesses, mired in bureaucracy, is also leaving behind a lot of economic initiative and job creation in the european union.
mr president micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are not only the backbone of the european economy, but also the basis for its growth. these companies are currently facing enormous challenges, such as bureaucracy and regulations. it is therefore essential that we do everything within the internal market to ensure that only reasonable expectations are set for them and that where possible their lives are made easier. we know that the union is facing serious competitiveness problems. the 2019 global competitiveness index also finds that east asia is currently the most competitive region, with singapore leading the way. companies from these countries - our sme competitors - do not have to comply with a number of regulations, so they have a better starting point. another challenge - and this has been discussed here - is to keep pace with third countries that are at the forefront of digitisation and technological innovation. it requires know-how and resources. officer, our discussion has shown that we agree on the goal, and now we're very interested in the details, the implementation. can we expect the commission to examine all legislative proposals in advance in terms of their impact on competitiveness and smes and to report to parliament on this? because smes are disproportionately affected by the costs of any change in the rules. so i ask you to get to work and introduce the sme filter, because that's how we can ensure that they, the smes, have a better chance and that our economy succeeds.
mr president, small and mediumsized enterprises are often mentioned in the european commission's speeches, almost always for the purpose of justifying legislation, whether it is regulation or deregulation, which in fact serves interests quite different from those of smes, the overwhelming majority of which are very much oriented towards national markets. that is why they are the first to suffocate when the national internal market suffocates and the first to suffer from the monopoly domination of key sectors of the economy that results from the liberalizations decided by the european union or from the financial domination of private banking that will be accentuated by the banking union. it is also in the interests of smes that public control over strategic sectors of the economy must be restored, by directing them towards economic development rather than the predatory profits of the large economic and financial groups, and by breaking with the constraints imposed by the european union, ranging from liberalisation to the stability pact, to name just a few.
mr president, we are currently working on the new research and development programme, horizon europe. this programme will train our young people and equip them with skills for a wide range of professional and research fields. we expect these skills to be passed on by the education system. member states should therefore take advantage of the european union's research and innovation instruments to equip students and teachers with skills that are adapted to the real needs of the world of work. i recently had the opportunity to meet with companies linked to research and innovation in madeira - an outermost region - who said that the needs of today are not the same as those of the past. i therefore hope that horizon europe will be used and strengthened by the member states to bring about a real curricular transformation and to translate this into pioneering and excellent research.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the free trade agreement between the european union and vietnam is not only economically advantageous but has already influenced the adoption of a new labour code in vietnam. the recognition of the right to collective bargaining, together with the right to freedom of association, is due to our action. however, i cannot help but point out that we should have been more ambitious in the timeframe for ratifying the ilo convention on the abolition of forced labour and in taking measures to comply with the paris agreement. climate change knows no borders, and we have little time for the many things that need to be done. the agreement is a good example of how our trade policy can be used to promote european principles and values. we have lost the united kingdom, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, but we are still a trading power and we cannot therefore take any steps backwards in the exercise of our capacity to promote human rights, to recognise social and labour rights and, not least, to protect the environment and biodiversity.
mr president, congratulations to mavrides on his report, thank you mrs lagarde. we all know that we need significant progress on banking union and capital markets. to date, progress has been slow and very limited. the third pillar of the banking union is far from complete. a stronger role for the euro requires, first and foremost, political will. economic and monetary union must be completed as a budgetary instrument capable of responding to external shocks and with safe assets. the ecb needs to play a key role in this debate, just as it needs to play a key role in combating climate change. the ecb has to work with the other european institutions and with its peers to strengthen the role of the euro as a reserve currency, in particular in the international fora where it is present.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, these are european sanctions. but, according to european rules, the implementation of these sanctions and the monitoring of them are the responsibility of the member states. that is also a european norm. or is it not? to change it would require changing the treaty. you know - or should know very well - that these kinds of travel restrictions are decisions of the council and therefore do not come under the control of european law, they are not union law. it may surprise a normal citizen, a citizen who is not an expert on these issues, but it should not surprise you. why are you surprised? it is the council's decision and as such it is not union law. and therefore the commission has no role in monitoring its application and cannot initiate an infringement procedure. you are meps. you guys should know that, right? does that surprise you? it surprises them. well, you're gonna have to study a little more, because i shouldn't surprise you. you know very well that a council decision is not union law, and that the european commission cannot therefore intervene or initiate an infringement procedure. and also, in accordance with our rules, we have said that it is the member states who have to monitor its implementation. so this is a european standard which has to be applied by a member state and whose application has to be controlled at member state level. where is the logical flaw in my argument? because if i don't have a logical flaw, you do.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
this parliament has once again promoted a debate on venezuela, a country constantly attacked by the most reactionary right wing which does not accept the struggle of a people who are standing up. this time, the hatred that moves them has led them to bring spanish politics into this parliament, continuing to feed the most anti-democratic and meddling sentiments, insisting on not recognizing a government successively supported by the popular vote and insisting on supporting a puppet of trump, who has lost all credibility even with the venezuelan opposition. they continue to defend sanctions which mainly affect the venezuelan people and immigrant communities in venezuela, such as the portuguese community. we express our solidarity with the venezuelan people who are resisting and not selling out, despite the sanctions and all the external attacks.
madam president, over three hundred and seventy dead and nearly six hundred thousand displaced in the last two months. these are the overwhelming figures of reality in northwestern syria, the scene of a devastating humanitarian catastrophe in a country ravaged by nine years of conflict that has exposed survivors to atrocious suffering. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities. the displaced populations are currently living without shelter and basic goods. it is imperative to continue providing humanitarian assistance to the population while efforts are being made towards a sustainable settlement in accordance with un security council resolution 2254. the eu's newly elected president, mr borrell, has called for the creation of humanitarian corridors and the necessary security conditions for the teams to assist the people. i wonder what response they got to this appeal.
madam president, this debate comes at a time when the syrian arab army and its allies are making rapid advances in the provinces of aleppo and idlib, regaining control of areas occupied by terrorist organisations. but what this debate is seeking here in strasbourg is in line with what is happening on the ground, with the entry of a turkish military convoy into idlib and the israeli missile attack, and is nothing more than giving protection to terrorists, ensuring control over syrian natural resources, questioning the legitimacy of the syrian authorities and the integrity of its territory and occupying this geostrategically crucial region. the interests of imperialism are contrary to the defence of human rights and international law and are expressed, as in this parliament, in a completely hypocritical manner. the resolution of this conflict requires an end to the destabilisation and external aggression against the syrian arab republic, the defence of its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and respect for international law and the charter of the united nations.
madam president, madam commissioner, africa is today the youngest continent in the world. as with us, digital technologies spark curiosity and create opportunity. opportunities to find new solutions to old problems. to fight female genital mutilation, through an app like the young women in kenya here showed. for financial inclusion, through virtual currency, with mobile phones, like mpesa, in kenya and mozambique. to reduce the gender imbalance in technology, with the miss geek africa contest or tech needs girls in ghana. the focus on the digital economy, the prevention of the risks it entails, investment in training, the empowerment of young people and women in stem are therefore as fundamental in africa as in the european union. this strategy should therefore promote and strengthen our partnerships, also in the area of the digital transition. we must look at africa as a partner, with needs, challenges and opportunities that are the same as ours.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate today, we condemn violence and hate speech based on race, ethnicity, religion and anti-semitic propaganda. that makes sense, because such things have no place among us. but now is the time for each of us to ask ourselves an important question - after we address our constituents and ask them to have a civilized attitude to these issues, are we setting a good example with our behavior? at the last mini-session in brussels, a greek colleague of ours in the chamber, in the temple of democracy, took the liberty of tearing up the flag of the republic of turkey. i'm asking if this is an example of respect and good behavior or an act of hate. we have the right to treat the national symbols of not only turkey but any other country in this way. that is why, colleagues, i think that before we ask our voters to prevent anti-semitism, racism and hatred, we ourselves must set a personal example of european and civilized behaviour by our actions.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! literally a dozen days ago, we celebrated in poland and in europe the anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz camp. it would seem that these tragic events of world war ii will remain for all of us a painful lesson of history that everyone will remember. unfortunately, no one can say that today, at the beginning of 2020, our continent is free from the disease of anti-semitism, racism and xenophobia that led to the tragic events of just a few decades ago. today, we enjoy the single market and freedom of travel, but we must not forget that the european union was created primarily to preserve peace and prevent new conflicts. therefore, it is our duty to protect fundamental rights, including the idea of just, peaceful and tolerant societies. the european commission, parliament and the governments of the member states must continue to work together to eliminate all manifestations of racism, xenophobia and discrimination in our societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am taking the floor in this debate because anti-semitism, racism and hate speech are not the concern of one minority or another, or of one community or another. this is a common european and global problem that threatens our core values. but how can we deal with it when it is authorized in the european union itself? i give the example of my native country, the republic of bulgaria, where the extreme nationalist valeri simeonov was elected deputy speaker of the bulgarian parliament, with the support of the political forces belonging to the european people's party and the party of european socialists. and this is a man who was pushing elderly women on the border with the republic of turkey, who came to vote or just to see their relatives. his motive is that they're ethnically different. fellas, let's not be silent, it's never too late for evil to catch up with us. raise your voice, be a man of dignity and respect the rights and freedoms of all citizens.
mr president, anti-semitism is on the rise in europe. in france, for example, the 2019 report of the ministry of the interior reports a 74% increase in anti-semitic acts in one year. according to a survey in january 2020, 34% of jews living in france feel threatened. this disturbing phenomenon must be combated. but to combat it better, we must first realize that there are three sources of anti-semitism today. first, there is the anti-semitism of the far right, which is the oldest, but it remains. then there is, and this is more recent, far-left anti-semitism, which is a hateful drift of anti-zionist ideology. finally, there is an islamist anti-semitism which has arisen in most of the states of western europe as a result of uncontrolled immigration. the latter seems to me to be the most dangerous of the three. we've let it flourish for too long without doing anything about it. we must now put an end to this shameful tolerance and fight it without weakness.
mr president, the rise of anti-semitism and the consequent increase in feelings of insecurity among european jews is a great defeat for modern europe. and while mainstream european politicians are routinely telling the story of protecting vulnerable groups, at the same time, a large part of the jewish community is thinking about emigration. this is a real example of european hypocrisy, and unfortunately it is not the only one. some social groups today have become more equal than others. and while lamenting the fate of those who are far more dependent on state aid, more prosperous communities, like the jewish community, are being completely ignored. the rise of anti-semitism is also a defeat of european integration and integration-migration policy that allows imported extremism to flourish on european soil. this has to be stopped while there's still time.
madam president, we have a great heritage of struggle and solidarity with all those who have been or are victims of racism, xenophobia or fascism. we reject any historical revisionism of the terror of nazism. we will not allow the fight against anti-semitism to be used to criminalise the actions and opinions of all those who condemn the israeli regime's illegalities and crimes against the palestinian people. we will not allow anyone who opposes israel's criminal policy to be accused of anti-semitism, as long as economic cooperation and european union agreements with the israeli state continue. freedom and justice are defended by condemning the policy of israel which, with the complicity of the trump administration and the european union, flouts international law, un resolutions and international agreements and disrespects human rights. we don't confuse assailants with assaulted people. it is the palestinian people who are being attacked by a zionist regime which, in its racist and far-right action, disrespects the history of its own people.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic states, and the european union has also expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic states. this price difference between the various countries has increased the illegal trade in dogs and cats in the european union. this black market thus encourages illegal breeders to transport these animals to countries where they are more profitable to sell. but this sick and illegal system of altering the ages and falsifying the vaccination records of these animals is only possible because there is no community register of certified breeders. in addition to this community omission there are the deplorable and illegal conditions under which these animals are transported within the community. and to stop this illegal trade the european union has to create legislation that obliges member states to ensure official records of all pets, but not only. this system will only be effective if national databases can be cross-referenced at a supranational level within the european union. the conclusion for us is clear: any national law without a european registration system will fail.
madam president, madam secretary of state, commissioners, the purpose of the multiannual financial framework is to reconcile political priorities with expenditure, that is to say, to mobilise the resources needed for political commitments, for commitments to citizens. we know the expectations of the citizens of the european union. we were elected to fulfill them. and the institutional cycle that has just begun faces a fundamental challenge: regaining the citizens' trust in the european union. in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework we are faced with an exercise in which each member state must get out of its national selfishness. but it is possible, as we have almost always shown throughout the history of the european union, to reconcile national interests with european interests. an opportunity to make sure that the political priorities we advocate and hear systematically repeated in the political discourse of all, or almost all, of europe's political leaders are not empty words but reflect a genuine political will. just a few examples. we want to promote investment, economic growth and job creation: we have the investeu programme. we want to promote cohesion and combat inequalities: we have cohesion policy. we want to generate innovation and promote the digital transition: we have horizon europe and digital europe. we want to promote cooperation between the different education systems in each member state and the mobility of young people: we have the erasmus programme. we want to combat climate change: we have cohesion policy, the cap and the just transition mechanism. and i could go on! but for all this we need adequate funding. the direct contribution of the member states is not sufficient. we need to compensate and increase the financing of the european union from its own resources without penalising the citizens. finally, we do not want an institutional crisis. we are only prepared to give our consent, as we have been saying, if we have a budget that is commensurate with the political priorities and if we have a political agreement on own resources.
blue-card question. – madam president, i say to mr omarjee: in my country, in portugal, we did turn the page of austerity, we did bring hope to our country and also to many europeans that it was possible to turn the page of austerity. and as you say in this new budget, it is about a new hope for europe. it is about us delivering on the promises that we made to the europeans that we will have a europe of more ambition, and also the modernisation, but defending the policies in which we believe, millions of europeans.... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the commission and the council have come here today to announce cuts in cohesion and agriculture, to deceive the citizens about the new green deal and to blackmail parliament with the spectre of an institutional crisis. there's no new money for the new green deal. what there are are cuts, proposals for cuts, in the policies that could implement it and a budgetary cheat that is counting the old money twice. there's still money, yes, for the old brown pact and fossil fuel funding. and there is new money, yes, but for the militarization of europe, that is, for the german and french arms industries. if there is an institutional crisis, it will be because the commission and the council do not want to put european union money where they put their speeches, because they talk about social and environmental objectives, but that is not where they really want to invest.
madam president, we follow the general direction of the report as regards the protection of the rights of european citizens in the united kingdom, but as surely all members are aware, the implementation of what has been agreed with the united kingdom is facing a number of problems in the daily lives of european citizens living, sometimes for decades, in the united kingdom in accessing basic services, entering into employment contracts or leasing contracts. and so we have drawn up an oral amendment which enshrines the automatic status of regularisation of the situation of these citizens and ensures the delivery of a physical document which can prove the residence status of these citizens. the amendment is as follows: calls for the automatic granting of permanent residence visas to all eu citizens living in the uk by 31 january 2020. it stresses the need for these visas to include a physical document proving their residence status. these two sentences would be added to article 50 of the resolution.
madam president, when the law creating the railways in belgium was passed in 1834, a member of parliament warned of the fear that farmers would be expropriated of their land, that coachmen would lose their jobs, and even of the rumors that milk would be delivered in butter. it seems, therefore, that the digital transition will not be worse than the industrial revolution. but maybe it's more demanding. first, the change it causes is much faster and knows no borders. secondly, it is much more demanding in changing the competence. thirdly, it occurs in societies that are, fortunately, much more socially aware. and fourth, it's not limited to the factory, it touches all of our lives, professional and personal. it thus requires leaving no one behind, democratizing knowledge and ensuring a balanced distribution of financial and leisure benefits. this must be done in close collaboration between social policy, commissioner, and digital policy. like a piece composed by four hands with the harmony of a mozart sonata.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner dalli, you have us on your side when it comes to making real progress on equality in europe. i would like to say to the speaker before me that women are not weaker, but they are weakened by systems, by rules, by traditions. they're getting weaker, we're not getting weaker. but this weakening comes from outside. if we now look at the strategy which is now, hopefully, coming back to europe after five years of abstinence, we have very clear demands: we want a new, independent, ambitious strategy. we want a strategy with a clear plan of action. we want to see clear progress. we do not want to see any retreat, and above all we do not want to see any attacks on women's rights. we want to put equal opportunities at the centre and end all forms of discrimination. and we want it - as the commissioner has also stressed - in all policy areas, not just in the policy areas that are assigned to us. we want it in foreign trade, in tax policy, in digital policy, in environmental policy, in the budget, in research, in agriculture and so on and so forth. gender mainstreaming affects all policy areas, so we want to be seen and taken into account in all policy areas. i do not want to speak on the main issues of preventing and combating violence against women, i do not want to speak on the main issues of reconciling family and work, or the labour market, or sexual rights. i would like to focus on a very different subject. the issue i want to focus on is the link between equality and democracy. and here, commissioner, we are at a very, very important point. we demand that there be a study that analyzes the effects of nationalist policies on the equality movements. we demand that the status of women's rights in all member states be continuously and repeatedly examined. and above all, we demand that there be annual progress reports. equality has something to do with the rule of law, and if equality is violated, the member state must put it on its bank statement.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. equality is a core value of the european union, and the new strategy for gender equality should be both ambitious and realistic. so what should its shape be? we have many challenges, such as the fight against the wage and pension gap, and the feminization of poverty in a broad sense. i would like us to propose legislation that empowers women to combine work and child rearing, that we support them in motherhood and that we value the unpaid work women do in the home. we also need to address violence against women, including cyber-violence, pornography and human trafficking. sadly, even young girls in the european union are being subjected to forced marriage and female genital mutilation. i would also like to point out, commissioner, that the new strategy does not fall within the competence of the member states. let parliament respect its motto 'united in diversity'.
i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and that it has been able to take part in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and that it is not only the council but also the commission which has been involved in the negotiations. the defence and promotion of universal, quality public services, such as housing and justice, and free access to health and education, is also central to equality. the protection of maternity, with 100% paid leave, and protection in the event of illness are essential if the strategy is to be nothing more than a roll of good intentions and to achieve a true balance between personal, family and professional life. at the same time, states must ensure that mechanisms and instruments are in place to combat all forms of violence, whether in the family, the workplace or otherwise.
(start of the speech with the microphone off) ... the strategy you will be presenting, i hope it has concrete measures, has objectives and has the means, has the resources to be implemented, otherwise it will be another nice text that will remain in the archives of the european commission. we need a strategy that fights problems, that wins battles that should no longer be on our agenda, like domestic violence, and a strategy that looks to the future and fights, for example, inequality in participation in technological professions, which is very imbalanced at the moment. we also need this strategy to be present in all european commission policies, to discriminate against companies that have good equality policies in public procurement or in access to funds, and to be included in international partnership agreements. count us in if your strategy is ambitious. you can count on our support. count on our criticism too and our contribution.
mr president, gender equality is a matter of power and power has never been given, it has always been won. let me be clear: this is not about doing a favour to women. gender equality is about human rights and is in the interest of all: men and women. wise words from the secretary-general of the united nations. i quote a man who has always been a militant for this cause, not just now in the position he occupies. what priorities should we bring to the united nations 25 years after beijing? first, the fight for women who have no rights, who have no right to study, who have no right to marry, who have no right to their sex life, who have no right to their professional life. those are the ones that are always at the forefront of our priorities. secondly, the priority of combating violence, including the new violence that occurs via the internet and that, once again, affects mainly women and girls. and then the other inequalities: the ones that will be inequalities in the future if we don't prevent them now, like the ones that relate to the imbalance in the tech professions. i think we have a lot of work to do. with the whole world, we'll be stronger together.
the luanda leaks scandal certainly has a lot of national responsibilities, including in my own country, where for many years the economic and political elite saw no problem in isabel dos santos's business and collaborated with them. and it also has national problems in other jurisdictions like malta, which has actively collaborated with the whole money laundering cycle that has been going on. now, there is a responsibility also for the european institutions to realize that if there are national jurisdictions that are facilitating money laundering, tax evasion, financial crime, then the rest of the members of the european union, and the european union as a whole, have to stop that from happening. and there is a risk that the multiplication of these scandals will end up with no accountability and no consequences for all those who collaborate in money laundering, whether they are states, whether they are the financial consultancy firms that the european commission hires to work for european institutions and who are also involved in these operations that they know are illegal, and in the financial institutions of the european union. if none of this has consequences, if at the end of this process the only person to be held responsible is rui pinto, who is the person who made these documents public, then the only lesson that citizens will take from the european union's actions is that in these scandals there are consequences only for those who have not committed crimes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, money laundering is a crime with many faces. it has legitimized fortunes and investments, opened the door to corporate contamination and economic addiction. however, money laundering does not lose its criminal origin. the fight against corruption is more than an economic or supervisory imperative; it is a matter of the rule of law and, not infrequently, of the defence of human rights. we need firm and decisive answers. today there are potential infringement proceedings by member states for failure to transpose the 5th anti-money laundering directive. it lacks determination and it lacks solidity, because each of the 27 has its own approach, as the commissioner rightly said in her opening statement. it is in the room that lies the wide-open door to crime. the commission will present its action plan at the end of march. it is up to this parliament to respond with even greater determination and firmness, even if this means that directives have to be converted into regulations, and even if this means that we have to strengthen european supervision and the european central bank when national regulators continue to fail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revelations of the luanda leaks, which also involve operators from some member states, confirm that the fight against money laundering must remain one of the priorities of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. and money laundering is one of the sources of terrorism funding. it is therefore necessary to strengthen european anti-money laundering legislation and to harmonise national legislation. the implementation of the anti-money laundering directives, including the criminal law directive, must be monitored. it is also necessary to give the judicial and investigative authorities full access to the information collected by the fius and to provide the law enforcement authorities with effective administrative control powers and with appropriate specialisation, as is the case in my country, italy, with the guardia di finanza. and all this is also in order to recover the proceeds of such serious crimes, which we know today only happens to the extent of 1%.
mr president, luanda leaks is a scandal that reflects the way in which the financial, economic and fiscal system promotes genuine red-carpet money laundering, corruption and influence peddling. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in seven years, this visa regime has not only depressed housing prices, making them unbearable for most citizens, but it has also been an economic failure, creating only 213 jobs and 16 businesses. but the evidence linking visas to the entry of dubious capital is so clear that this parliament itself has already recommended the end of the gold visas in all the member states, a recommendation which portugal has made and is making with a heavy eye. but luanda leaks also brings up the issue of protecting whistleblowers and ensuring that the political system does not interfere in investigative journalism. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of whistleblowers, including the implementation of the 2019 whistleblower protection directive, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new whistleblower protection legislation.
mr president, with this timely debate we go back to a recurrent concern of this parliament. these practices harm the european society because relevant parts of our resources are directed to criminal activities. the scope of innovation in financial transactions is enormous. digital transactions grow every day and become more and more sophisticated. we have to recognise that regulation in actual practices by the authorities have been insufficient. we need coherent regimes of supervision and on the actual definition of illegal practices. we need much more cooperation between the different authorities in member states. we need to consider an additional role for the european authorities. we need compliance to step up in the institutions, even through the enforcement of public authorities. for all this to happen, we probably have to step up the legislative and regulatory process at european level, considering seriously the possibility of approving a european regulation. finally, we need people to trust the banks, financial institutions, public authorities. therefore, this battle is far from won. let’s keep fighting the good fight.
mr president, we cannot ignore the terrible situation of immigrant refugees in various parts of the world, but especially at the doorstep of the european union, as i recently witnessed at the border between croatia, a member state of the union, and bosnia-herzegovina. there i had the opportunity to witness and hear the most dramatic accounts of the violent, degrading and inhumane treatment by the croatian police in the expulsion of people who are only seeking a chance at a decent life, a search that often results in their death. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in bosnia, we were able to contact numerous migrants and refugees. among these i would highlight the unaccompanied young people who live, like others, in conditions to which no one should be subjected, much less at this age. several of them hoping to be reunited with relatives living in europe. all this in the face of the european failure to take solidarity measures to help these people out of the limbo in which they find themselves. i therefore ask whether the new migration plan which is being announced provides for the establishment of legal channels, notably through humanitarian visas, but also for study, work and family reunification. our restlessness cannot be equated with silence or inaction. (the president agreed to answer a blue card question in accordance with rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. protecting borders does not mean violating international law, violating human rights. and if croatia wants to protect its borders without violating international law, without violating human rights, why has it not yet implemented a mechanism to monitor everything that is happening there? and it is necessary that parliament now approves an inquiry to establish the whole truth.
the european union is committed to the protection of the union's financial interests and the rule of law, and to the protection of its citizens and the security of its citizens. croatia advocates, i will repeat once again, an efficient and humane management of migration and migration routes. my country has the longest external border of the european union and despite the different situation in our neighbourhood, croatia's borders are open and will remain so. there will be no wire, there will be no barricade. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize that the procedures at the croatian borders are carried out in full compliance with croatian and european laws and, i repeat, with international standards and rules. croatia is confronted on a daily basis with people who do not want to stay in our country, their goal is western europe. we must be aware of the fact that the problem of migration is not a problem of one country but of the whole union. i'll conclude, our political views don't have to be the same, colleagues, but they do have to be the same human ones. so we want legal migration and humanity above all.
madam president, the right to asylum is not a choice, but a duty. a duty linked to international conventions on the status of refugees, the fundamental principle of which is non-refoulement and to which the member states are parties, including croatia. but it is also article 2 of the treaty on european union, which states that the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality. border management must therefore be carried out in accordance with the treaty and international commitments. however, in order to limit the flow of migration, the european union and the member states have not respected this legal framework and have furthermore outsourced migration management through bilateral agreements with countries that often do not meet the sufficient material, but also legal, conditions to ensure the protection of migrants. all the reports and the witnesses tell us that the conditions are not being met. so a simple question: do you think that the member states today are respecting the convention on the status of refugees? if not, what do you want to do to make them so? and finally, do you think that dealing with and outsourcing migration to turkey, bosnia, libya, mauritania, morocco or others structurally solves the migration problem, with the guarantee of respect for our international commitments?
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european commission for the efforts it is making in favour of refugees and migrants. but we have reached a tipping point. in my view, the dublin rules must be changed to ensure that refugees and migrants are treated more humanely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i realize that this is politically difficult, because many countries and many governments are in a state of shock after the crisis of 2015-2016, but it's the only way to have a positive outcome. there is also a proposal by the greek prime minister for 4,000 unaccompanied minors who are trapped in greece, so that we can share them with the european union. there's a first responder, but it could be better.
madam president, the same european union which proclaims itself to be the great defender of human rights is fuelling one of the greatest humanitarian crises of our time, as the un has already acknowledged. the various criteria, selective, restrictive and inhuman, are created to choose some and abandon others, forcing them to remain in authentic concentration camps, overcrowded, in inhuman, deplorable and degrading conditions. the european union is continuing its efforts to consolidate the concept of an eu fortress by promoting the externalisation of its borders, even in the light of decadent and criminal agreements such as the agreement with turkey or libya, a country destroyed by direct intervention by the european union and its powers, among other so-called 'partnerships', by imposing its migration policies on third countries, including by making aid conditional on the development and implementation of restrictions on migratory flows. we reiterate that destabilisation, interference and aggression against third countries must be stopped and that international law on migration must be strictly observed.
madam president, we want to build a safe internet for our children. partnership with isps, content creators, social media operators is needed to come up with a set of good practices, recommendations and concrete solutions to make the internet a safer place and thus avoid potential incidents. a recent study in my country, romania, shows that one in three children between the ages of nine and 16 have been harassed online, and the reported cases of cyberbullying are multiplying, unfortunately. worse, nearly half of those harassed did nothing, believing that things would work out for themselves. perhaps that's why, statistically, adults sometimes post personal information about their children online, believing that the online world is a safe space. as the european commission representative said, we need to support digital education, involve the relevant actors at european, national and local level, parents, young people, involve schools, to prevent such situations. i therefore welcome the european commission's initiative to make such a communication and reiterate my belief that the internet is a safe space if we learn to use it properly.
madam president! studies show that in some countries, children as young as 10 years old are already digital independent, and that age is steadily decreasing. and we probably won't stop this trend, although -- as we hear from doctors and psychologists and psychiatrists -- too much or too many hours of internet or computer use is killing social bonds, killing peer relationships, which is very negative. however, it is important that we do everything we can to make sure that our children are safe online, that the content is age-appropriate. while young people can find important and useful information on the internet, there are also many dangers, such as hate speech, pornography, bullying, and pedophilia. that's why i support initiatives like yesterday's safer internet day, which is a day of social action to raise awareness about how to use the internet safely, how to counter all the threats that our children face in today's world. and i support the european commission in doing everything it can to make sure that there is as little risk in this digital world as possible.
madam president, we must work for a safe internet for children at both european and national level. i don't want to, and i don't have to, go through all the known dangerous, yet repeated practices, sexual abuse, internet risk-taking. commissioner, i agree with you that the implementation of the revised audiovisual services directive is a europe-wide tool to improve child protection and we as members of parliament must see to its implementation in our national legislation. but prevention is the most effective tool. this means that we need to teach children to be safe, and we need educated teachers and parents to guide children well. i would also like to draw your attention, commissioner, to a number of very interesting and effective programmes being developed by our universities, such as palacký university in olomouc, czech republic, which is developing an educational app for teachers and parents to recognise and mitigate these risks. they must be used.
the use of the internet by children involves risks of privacy violations, commercial or instrumental use of profiles, health risks, the emergence of addiction and a distorted relationship with reality and one's own identity. other problems concern sexual invitations, online gambling and commercial teasing, cyber-bullying and sexting, and age-inappropriate digital consumption, including inappropriate advertising, violence, sex and other situations that provoke fear and anxiety in children. it is necessary to ensure that children are exposed to these dangers as little as possible. however, we must express our reservations about possible measures that can be implemented and which should not impose restrictions on the rights to freedom of expression and should respect privacy and data protection. we also believe that this debate cannot be disconnected from the importance of the public service in ensuring a secure and universal service in the fight against digital exclusion.
the global threat of the coronavirus is a test of the effectiveness of internal eu cooperation in health. but this cooperation will not be sufficient if it is not coordinated at who level with all the countries of the international community affected, with a view to containing and, in the long term, conquering the epidemic. the eu must therefore ensure that taiwan, with its 23 million people, does not remain the only country with confirmed cases of coronavirus excluded from who technical meetings, as has been the case since the outbreak began. this exclusion is not only inexplicable but also irresponsible. in the past, taiwan has been able to participate in who meetings as an observer. the exclusion of this country from meetings related to the coronavirus response is therefore all the more incomprehensible. the inclusion of taiwan in these agreements, as well as in the forthcoming 73rd who assembly, should be the subject of discussions by the european authorities. in addition, there is a need to investigate reports of discrimination against asians in the european area in the context of this epidemic, which is unacceptable in the light of the union's values.
mr president, commissioner, the commissioner has spoken to us here today about some very important concerns, as you have mentioned, and i would like to give you the same support in my political group. we need to avoid depopulation of rural areas, we need food security and therefore we need a higher budget for the cap. but, commissioner, when we are discussing this 'meadow to meadow' strategy, there is one thing that has been very troubling me from the beginning, because it is unfair to farmers. it seems that europe is suddenly waking up and saying: farmers are responsible for everything that is wrong with our countries. this is an injustice to farmers. because, commissioner, you know, we know, we all know that a good strategy 'meadow to meadow' will only win if there is meadow, because if there is no meadow and only meadows, well, that strategy is dead. so first of all we have to give farmers a boost, and to give farmers a boost, commissioner, is to remember that we have to have instruments alongside this strategy. we know that, strategically, nothing is won without capable instruments. and the financial instrument is, along with justice for european farmers, an essential issue. that's the strength we're here to give you, to overcome those obstacles.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the european union's farmers and agriculture face new challenges and responsibilities, but also much greater burdens, for example, from the european green deal. the budget for agriculture, unfortunately, is proposed to be reduced. if it does, it's just not gonna work. in addition, direct payments must finally reach the real farmers. the pathology is that the majority of the beneficiaries are not farmers, but landowners. commissioner, please refer to the information on the new tax planned by the european commission on animal products: meat and dairy products. this would reduce consumption and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this is a major concern for manufacturers as well as consumers. if this were to be a pillar of this strategy, it would end up worsening the incomes of food producers in the european union and the competitiveness of european agriculture.
mr president, commissioner, the fork-to-fork strategy has the potential to bring a lot to our agri-food sector and to the final consumer, but to succeed, consistency and realism will be required. coherence, because the climate challenge requires a substantial budget, commensurate with the challenge we are facing. we cannot accept the proposed budget cuts and ask our farmers to do more with less. we also need to improve the link between the current cap reform and the green deal. realism, because we must base our decisions on science, not ideology. let us not lead our industries into technical dead ends and deprive them of innovative technologies, while the world and our competitors are advancing at a rapid pace. finally, let us remember that our farmers are the solution, that they will need to be at the heart of our strategy, and that we will also need to address the vital imperatives of economic viability and competitiveness.
mr president, i have a point of order. you just indicated that people who have been dealt a blue card are not eligible for catch the eye. i think that this should be included in the rules of procedure. otherwise i object to that, because if you had said that at the beginning of the debate, i would not have drawn the blue card. so i think i'm entitled to the "catch the eye" procedure.
it does not have to be in the rules of procedure, mr president, because the rules of procedure also say that the president decides how many 'blue cards' we can accept and which ones. when i took over the chair, i said how i would do it because i have too many words; and because i have so many word messages, i had to sort out how i deal with them. spontaneous speech
mr president, we have had a very interesting debate here today on the 'farmer to table' strategy. it is absolutely necessary that we feed it. i am a farmer's daughter and i have to say that in this debate we should also think about the fact that we should not always blame everything on the farmers. of course, farmers must cooperate with the green deal and the measures. but let's be honest here. in recent years, remember, a thousand businesses have disappeared every day in the european union. a thousand farmers a day disappearing in the european union. that hurts me. four million over the last few years. we have a nice tv show in flanders: "farmers to women". i fear we will soon have to make a programme 'europe is a farmer'. that is why i ask you, commissioner, to focus on agriculture. let the agriculture survive. what do we have to do to make that happen? we must strengthen the position of farmers in the chain, open up new markets, improve prices, support young farmers, and above all: you're going to have to dissolve this boycott of russia.
mr president, it is good that the commission has brought this farm to table strategy to the fore. i hope it will also be a broad-based food policy programme for sustainable food, addressing the entire production chain from primary production to food waste, and aiming to make the best possible choices for the environment, the producer and human health, which will, of course, also generate a fair income for producers in developing countries and in our own country, the proper treatment of animals, healthy food and reduce environmental burdens and help to solve the problem of climate change. we know this is possible. our present agricultural policy - the common agricultural policy and its financing - simply does not produce this result. are you also going to amend the cap proposal accordingly, so that it supports a sustainable food policy?
mr president, i come from a rural world where, unfortunately, we are all very aware of the impact that the cap has had on our land, on our people and on our lives. that's why we're concerned about this "meadow to meadow" strategy. how do you intend to ensure a fair income for farmers so that they can produce quality food or avoid the abandonment of the rural world without addressing the fundamentals of the current common agricultural policy? how will you ensure that food is safe and available to all with your neo-liberal policies which only promote competitiveness and open up primary sectors to global competition, which fuel unsustainable models of intensive production and agribusiness and which call into question biodiversity and the very limits of the planet? food sovereignty, the promotion of short distribution channels, the defence of small and mediumsized farming, family farming and the rural world must be part of the path from 'meadow to meadow', and this is not compatible with the interests you represent and serve.
madam president, the expression we heard most from the commission at the beginning of this debate was 'concrete measures'. however, the only thing we did not hear about was "concrete measures". we've heard about charity words and video conferencing. europe has two major responsibilities in the face of the coronavirus epidemic: the first is to prevent its spread in europe as much as possible by taking preventive action, the second is to deal with the economic effects of this epidemic, which are guaranteed even if it is not as serious from the point of view of public health as we fear, and we hope it is not. however, the european commission, instead of coming here to tell the member states to invest pre-emptively in all their public services starting with health services, precisely so that the epidemic is not so serious and does not have so many effects from the point of view of public health, instead of coming here to say that all this investment will be protected by the european commission, that no country will be prosecuted for not meeting the deficit targets to pursue these investments, to pursue public service investment policies, which are also counter-cyclical economic policies, the european commission has come here to say that the stability and growth pact is already too flexible, that no additional measures are needed and therefore the european commission, what brought us here, are vacuums and if there are member states that do what it takes to do what it takes to protect their citizens and invest in their health services, i want to see if they will still face the persecution of the european commission to follow.
madam president, we are faced with a disease which has already affected all the member states of the european union, which makes it possible to know the problems and difficulties we have in dealing with an outbreak of this nature, especially when it is a new disease. the impact is felt across europe, not only in the saturation of health services, but also in the economic sector, tourism and other sectors. and once again it is the socially most vulnerable who are at greatest risk in the face of a situation which is already having major repercussions on the european economy, employment and society. the commission must respond to these pressing needs and prepare for future threats, and to do so we need a cross-sectoral public health threat response plan that provides a concerted and homogeneous response across europe and involves all sectors. this way we'll be more protected and better prepared. in conclusion, a word of deep thanks to all healthcare professionals who are dealing with the covid-19 outbreak across the european union and beyond.
madam president, we are in the middle of a serious public health crisis. the priority is to contain and stop the effects of this epidemic, but we must have the capacity to act to stop the economic and social consequences of the situation immediately. to take full advantage of the fiscal policy gained in recent years, to avoid the loss of thousands of jobs throughout europe, to act now with temporary, definite measures, to safeguard employment - as the portuguese government has already begun to do in my country - and to boost domestic demand. we know that a decade ago the most effective tax measures were those that targeted the incomes of lower and middle income households. public family allowance and pension schemes allow these families to increase their income and to act now. we cannot afford the price of inaction. european governments cannot choose the immorality of inaction.
madam president, mr president of the european council, mr commissioner šefčovič, this european council was another missed opportunity, a disappointment, but unfortunately the lack of agreement within the member states of the union was not a surprise. the lack of agreement means that the beneficiaries of the programmes, the european citizens, are at risk on 1 january 2021. because let's be clear: citizens have known about the european commission's proposal since may 2018. since october 2019 citizens have known the position and ambition of this parliament. but nobody knows what the council wants, and our response to climate, demographic, digital and international challenges has to be more europe. more europe to solve the border crisis, more europe to agree a european solution to covid-19. and in the next seven years we must be aware that more unexpected challenges will arise and europe cannot say, as it said in the 2007-2008 crises, that we are not prepared. we must equip the union's budget with the capacity to respond collectively to challenges that know no nationality, borders or languages, that are european challenges and that require a european solution, and that is why this parliament continues and will continue to fight for an ambitious and coherent budget, capable of responding to foreseeable and unforeseeable objectives. it is urgent, as it was on 20 february, that the council adopt its position on the multiannual financial framework and start negotiating it with this parliament. in the meantime, parliament will use all the instruments at its disposal to ensure that european citizens and european economies can benefit from the programmes and their funding in the union budget on 1 january 2021.
in writing. we are talking about human beings fleeing war and hunger and no one leaves his home and his country light-heartedly. the eu has a dual responsibility in this situation: firstly, it supports and participates in the aggression and destabilisation of third countries, fuelling wars that force people to leave their countries; the european union, which claims to be a champion of human rights, hypocritically tolerates the inhuman situation in these concentration camps and makes shameful agreements with countries such as turkey. we believe that it is necessary to: (i) condemn the turkish aggression against the syrian arab republic, giving it full support in the fight against terrorism and in defending its territorial integrity and sovereignty, in compliance with international law; (ii) reject the consolidation of the concept of the eu as a fortress, which criminalizes those who seek or offer aid; (iii) defend international law, in particular the right to asylum; and (iv) promote genuine policies of development cooperation that ensure rights, social progress and peace.
mr president, here we are: the european parliament ready to work and to decide. again, the crisis of the century, just 10 years later. first, greed, now, the most serious, the silent enemy that attacks us. the first word has to be for the thousands who are suffering and for their families, but also for the heroes who are protecting our health and our lives every day during this crisis. that is why investing in research, health and protection systems is a top priority, whatever the cost. but supporting businesses to save jobs as well. supporting job preservation is the right thing to do, to ensure that there is an economy, that there is transport that can function after the crisis. for all these reasons, suspending the european budgetary rules was the right thing to do. and so it is right and we will support it today to make european funds and solidarity funds available to the countries affected. but countries cannot be left alone, the response must be joint and coordinated. it is shocking to see that once again so many are going it alone, particularly those with budgetary leeway, and european solidarity is not visible. at least in a health crisis like this we can and will call for more europe. the european institutions can and must do a great deal. we need the coronabonds, we need european unemployment insurance, we need european policies in this crisis, because the virus knows no borders, nor the unemployment it will cause. we need a european response so that countries and citizens do not have to choose between suffering the evil or healing the cure. it would not be acceptable to impose austerity in return for funding for the crisis response, unless we have learned nothing from the mistakes of a decade ago. it takes more. the ecb's role is decisive, but the transmission of monetary policy is slow and so economies and business need answers and results in consumer demand now! so we need to act on fiscal policy to generate more demand and more confidence in the economy. use tax tools with companies to safeguard jobs, not shareholders. to support extraordinarily the incomes of families, of pensioners, of the unemployed, of those who have less. support and accelerate public investment, a major investment plan for europe that helps the economy and people. the economy needs it, and the people deserve it. we are going to save europe. europeans expect nothing less from us. this crisis will transform europe, our life as a society, it will take time to pass. now, let's lower the hatches to let the storm pass, but as soon as we can, we're really gonna have to open the sails very fast into the future. this is what is expected of us as businessmen, who want to know whether they can keep their jobs, and also of our citizens, who want to be healthy, to work, to have a family and to be happy. let us unite to defeat this enemy, to see the sun again after these days of grey and closed.
the novel coronavirus has brought europe and the world to a devastating stage. in addition to the loss of life, there are the effects on the economy, the fabric of production and the way of life of our societies. only a joint and coordinated response will enable us to cope with this crisis. the eu cannot repeat past mistakes, or else its project will be irreparably undermined. i welcome the measures taken by the european commission and the proposals put forward by the s&ds. the crisis caused by covid-19 does not end with the duration of the disease. the social, political and economic effects will persist for much longer. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. measures such as the european stability mechanism, the establishment of a public debt mutualisation mechanism and the enlargement of the eu's own resources system, among others, must be put in place now, without hesitation or delay, to help in the present and secure our future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are writing the pages of history books that our grandchildren will study. in this hour of decision, when the old continent seems most fragile, between solidarity and nationalism, what is our legacy? union or division? the bureaucratic machine or hope? do we want a northern or a southern europe? a baltic club, an association of latinos, a federation of slavs? i'm not going to. in the face of truly global problems, shared problems, like this virus, that doesn't cross borders or stop at borders, we have refugees on our doorsteps surviving in humiliating conditions, the united states calling into question the relationships we so rely on, and why not say, the economic threat to our companies from the chinese economy. how come we can't get together? in a world where the greatest uncertainty we have is the uncertainty of the future, the best we have to offer our citizens is our own division? if, as pope francis reminded us, we are all in the same boat, then each one of us cutting a board and thinking that we are saved is a weak illusion. individually we are fragile, like a brittle tree branch, but together we have the confidence and strength to face the future. europe is freedom. europe is a democracy. europe is the best place in the world for us to live. let's support those who need it most in this difficult time: the young, the unemployed, the elderly, those who are struggling to keep their company alive. let's industrialize and spread hope. we must not allow europe to be another victim at the hands of this pandemic.
in writing. the eu is currently facing an unprecedented pandemic. the current situation has raised problems across all member states, with serious economic and social consequences. we are witnessing the consequences of this public health crisis on a daily basis and we realise that the health sector is transversal to all areas of society. more than ever, it is imperative that the eu speaks with one voice. it is crucial to join forces and work towards the creation of a european public health threat mechanism. this mechanism will allow not only for monitoring and preparing a coordinated response to possible outbreaks that may arise in the eu, but also for ambitious social and economic planning to protect different sectors, workers and families. it should be recalled that the outermost regions of the european union (oer) have very specific socioeconomic characteristics and more than ever there is a need to pay increased attention to article 349 tfeu. this article should cover all the legislative matters in the various sectors. i hope that the european commission will give strong signs of solidarity by developing concrete recovery, reconstruction and investment packages and measures to support the economy of the ors. we are stronger together.
in writing. a number of effective measures are needed at european level in response to the epidemic. support to those most in need should not be interrupted because of the risk of infection. the crisis poses a greater risk to the most vulnerable, who experience deprivation on a daily basis, if we do not help them quickly, flexibly, and adapt to the situation. member states should also ensure that food and other basic consumer goods (e.g. footwear, soap) are provided to the poorest during the epidemic. we have to respond to the challenges of everyday life and not just in theory, but in practice. it is important to amend the rules of the european aid fund for the most deprived as a matter of urgency: the pandemic and the rules on social distancing require a new way of distributing food; people cannot gather in a free kitchen as before. there needs to be a change in how aid is delivered: sending out parcels or giving out vouchers is now a better way. however, in some countries (including my own), the distribution of electronic vouchers is not feasible: flexibility and adaptation to the specificities of the member states are needed. the distribution of food now requires adequate protective equipment: i welcome the fact that the fund will be used for the distribution of protective equipment against epidemics in addition to food and basic material assistance, and with 100% eu funding for the time being. i would like to protest against the fact that some of my colleagues are concerned with the rule of law in hungary instead of protecting the lives of eu citizens.
in writing. the eu is in the grip of a coronavirus pandemic that has left hundreds of thousands of people infected and tens of thousands dead after just two months, and the deepest economic crisis. while health is a matter for member states, the european institutions failed to respond in the first weeks of the pandemic, and the countries most affected did not receive eu assistance. the image that most europeans remember is that of march, when a plane from china landed at rome's airport with medical supplies, while italians waited for planes from brussels or berlin. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the european regional development fund (erdf), the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf), and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the european regional development fund (erdf), the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund (erdf), in order to ensure that the union's financial instruments are used effectively and in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the union's external action. today's speeches were also dominated by optimism that the eu could cope with the crisis, including in the economy, by mobilising hundreds of billions of euros, but the conclusions are worrying. all indications are that the way to solve the union's problems is to have more union and more ideological wars, including with countries whose governments are not liked in brussels.
in writing. – unfortunately, the covid-19 pandemic continues to take lives, and even though one third of the world is in social isolation, the number of infected people is increasing every day. this human tragedy that the pandemic has brought to europeans and their families and to citizens all over the globe has to be urgently addressed by a coordinated global action. but first and foremost, all future actions taken by member states have to be guided by the union’s founding principle of solidarity and loyal cooperation. the covid 19 crisis has accentuated the importance of joint european action and we must mobilise our common resources to fight the pandemic and its consequences. therefore, i call on the commission to strengthen all components of crisis management and disaster response, and to further strengthen instruments such as resceu to ensure a truly common, coordinated and effective response at eu level. we immediately need to do more for smes, help them maintain jobs and manage their liquidity. the european commission has to propose a massive recovery and reconstruction package for investment to support the european economy after the crisis, beyond what the european stability mechanism (esm), the european investment bank (eib) and the european central bank (ecb) are already doing.
in writing. the scope and magnitude of the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic are unparalleled in the history of our democracies. the european political system as a whole must be overcome and its added value demonstrated. the commission and parliament are constantly working and seeking within their respective spheres of competence all the measures necessary to minimise these effects. the joint motion for a resolution which the four main european political groups have negotiated clearly represents a united and decisive response to a shared crisis. parliament takes on this historic responsibility and calls on the commission to provide a massive recovery and reconstruction package, with investments to support the european economy after the crisis, beyond what the european stability mechanism, the eib and the ecb are already doing. we are talking about a new major investment plan, more ambitious and allowing direct support for smes and the reindustrialisation of europe. if there is a lesson to be learned from this crisis, it is that we must return to production in europe. this is clear to citizens, to business and to many politicians, that we will respond with determination by unlocking all the financial support necessary to make that happen.
in writing. – it is good to see the eu's response to the covid-19 crisis being ramped up this week, with additional funding for eu healthcare systems, flexibility for member states to use eu funds to respond to the crisis, support for fisheries and aquaculture, and a delay in the implementation of the new medical devices regulation so the sector can focus on providing vital equipment at this time. the european parliament has adapted its working methods, with meps participating remotely from across the eu. as a parliament it is essential for us to keep working to represent our citizens’ concerns and scrutinising action in response to this crisis. that means criticising the response when necessary. the eu and member states should have been quicker to react to the situation in italy, the first member state severely affected by covid-19. but it also means highlighting positives, like the eu institutions working to ensure better coordination among member states on issues including movement of goods and medical supplies. over the coming weeks we need to see the eu coordinating the actions of member states as they lift some restrictions. however, we should not be complacent. the virus has not gone away.
in writing. the word "bailout" is now often used by governments perhaps because it has a calming ring to it for many citizens. the only stupid thing is that any "rescue" has to be paid for by the taxpayers. the present situation is certainly unprecedented in recent history and therefore requires special measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that we are able to vote on their repayment in the coming years and decades will be a tremendous act of strength, especially for the taxpayers. this is a powerful act that the governments are happy to keep from these citizens, when they are currently celebrated in the media as active saviors. in view of the enormous sums involved, it is necessary to make it clear to the taxpayers what it will cost to rescue italy, spain and co. and that we can't afford it at all.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent economic and social crisis make it even clearer that a coordinated, joint response to global challenges is needed. the european union is acting because it is focusing an incredible amount of resources on addressing health and economic problems. several bills are currently awaiting a vote to provide financial assistance to various sectors of the crisis, including the economy, healthcare and aquaculture. some member states have unquestionable solidarity, while others, like viktor orbán, are using this tragic situation to consolidate their power and oppress hungarian citizens. in violation of the obligations arising from the eu treaties, at the end of march he ordered the state of emergency to be maintained for an unlimited period of time and, with it, the regulatory governance. it is outrageous that while tens of thousands of people are dying, authoritarian leaders in power are enacting unlawful measures that do nothing to contain the epidemic, to address the health and economic crisis that it has caused. we must not let european citizens suffer because of irresponsible, power-hungry political leaders, so i ask my fellow meps to vote in favour of the motion condemning the orbán government.
in writing. cooperation and coordination between member states is essential to overcome the european corona crisis. it would be wise to phase out the virus containment measures so that what has been done so far does not prove to be unnecessary and countries do not have to face a new wave of disease. the european green deal is the best way out of the crisis, as it helps to market the economy and create new jobs. it also helps to continue the fight against climate change, because climate warming and environmental concerns have not disappeared during the corona crisis. a time of crisis demands a sense of responsibility from society as a whole. it is the task of governments to find a balance point on which to base their decisions. the status and trends of the spread of the coronavirus, as well as the short- and long-term effects on human health, must be taken into account, as access to healthcare for other diseases and emergencies is currently very limited. it has a price on people's health. the impact of the recession on the state and society as a whole, as well as on individuals, must also be taken much more seriously. the loss of jobs and income will also affect people's health - both physical and mental. a reasoned analysis, taking into account all relevant aspects, is required to reach a decision that is reasonable and that balances the various risks. governments should not underestimate the level of social stress and the concern of many people about their health and the health and economic situation of their loved ones.
in writing. the coordinated eu action discussed in this session is nothing but propaganda and remains in line with the positions taken so far, confirming the total lack of solidarity and the limitations of the response to the consequences of covid-19. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the application of the principle of proportionality to the application of the principle of proportionality. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council on the application of the principle of proportionality to the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the solutions put forward by the eu consist of more indebtedness of the states, the legitimization of lay-offs, without any concrete answer to many of the problems faced by workers. a full response must necessarily involve the release of the constraints imposed by the eu and the recovery of instruments of state sovereignty.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic is one of those rare historical events whose impact can be said to be civilizational: it has frozen social relations, paralyzed the economy and put us in front of the unknown. while it makes us rediscover our fragility and deals a severe blow to our self-confidence in techno-science, this pandemic highlights the unity of the human species and the globalization of biopolitics. for the european union, this is a challenge of such magnitude that it can only result in its re-foundation or its disintegration. the union will only emerge from this crisis in one piece if it takes bold and reciprocal steps quickly. this joint resolution lists some of these steps, urging the eu to overcome prejudice and resistance to save as many lives as possible as a priority, and then to save the economy and avoid a social calamity. this will only be possible on the basis of solidarity and sharing in the short term and, in the medium and long term, through a fit-for-purpose recovery plan based on massive public investment, either through the drastic strengthening of existing resources and mechanisms or through the creation of new resources and mechanisms.
in writing. with this joint resolution, we give a first answer to the question: what kind of eu do we want, or are we able to build, after the crisis generated by covid-19? we have overcome political differences and national interests and, in honouring the democratic power conferred on us by the popular vote, we have affirmed the option of a europe based on the values of solidarity and democracy, where no country, region or citizen will be left behind. if the pandemic is egalitarian, its effects are not. it is therefore important to curb divisive imbalances. we need a resolute response that can inspire hope in citizens and re-launch the european economy on the basis of an economic recovery plan anchored in sustainability, digitalisation and the fight against inequalities. to this end, the necessary resources must be mobilised through the mutualisation of debt issuance in the form of eurobonds, coronabonds or recoverybonds - efficiency is what counts - and a new, robust and flexible multiannual financial framework. but it is not just the economy that needs to be revitalized. democracy also needs this. we therefore emphasise the rejection of any attempt to exploit the pandemic to restrict rights, freedoms and guarantees - achievements of the european project, which truly define the social pact of our societies.
mr president, a few days ago, in the midst of this pandemic, we celebrated europe. 70 years of a project of peace and unity among europeans, fulfilling the design that 'europe will not be made all at once, nor according to a single plan'. in the face of the difficulties, we are all in the same boat and i will not be on the side of those who want europe to sink. the strategy for economic recovery from this pandemic must be centred on the people, the europeans, the young people who are already facing the second major crisis of their lives, the entrepreneurs who struggle every day to pay salaries, the unemployed who are experiencing great hardships. it is for all of these that we need a recovery plan and a recovery fund that transforms and modernises our economies. and let everyone know that it is not parliament but the council that is blocking such urgent responses. here we must do our part: make sure that europe has a better future than its past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we in this parliament welcome the important step taken by the last council which allows the union to issue debt jointly without having to be accompanied by a penalty for the member states. but the crisis we face is unprecedented in the post-world war ii period. that's why we need all our firepower now! the recovery plan which the commission is drawing up must be very ambitious. it is not enough to raise some money in the market, many multipliers and a lot of marketing to recover the european economy. we need investment, we need transfers to households, to stimulate demand and business confidence, because we want and can save a lot of jobs in europe. we also need another role for the european central bank. these are not normal times. monetary policy also has to change, and a lot! europeans are being heroes in the fight against the virus. the european institutions must now show solidarity with those most affected.
in writing. in view of the ongoing delays in the adoption of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mff), it is essential to draw up a contingency plan in the event that no agreement is reached for the entry into force of the new mff on 1 january 2021. the new contingency plan is a response by the european parliament to convey security to european citizens, but it is also a mechanism to respond immediately to the social and economic consequences of the covid-19 outbreak. this contingency plan is an essential instrument which also contributes to the economic recovery of the member states and their regions. in the interim period until the presentation of the mff, i would reiterate the importance of the 21-27 package taking into account regional development policies, safeguarding the principles advocated by cohesion policy and also taking into account the exceptional regime provided for to safeguard the interests of the outermost regions, which play a fundamental role for the european union.
in writing. the ep's remote working model does not allow for a plenary debate; i'll have to put it in writing. the ep has been united since the beginning of the mff debate: we want a robust and timely qfp. we wanted to before, and now it is the only way to build a european response to the crisis. that is what europeans expect; we can only say that the eu protects citizens if, in times like the one we are living through, we have answers to the challenges facing people, businesses and jobs in the member states. the new mff, which will be supported by the recovery fund, will have to: increase support for cohesion and the cap, research, innovation, investment; restore the internal market with strategic investment in key industries, strategic eu value chains, which compensates member states for the cost of saving lives, jobs and protecting the living standards of families; make the eu more resilient in the global context, in a commitment to 'de facto solidarity', i.e. to mutual responsibility and commitments. with increased own resources. finally, under no circumstances, whatever the mechanisms proposed, will we accept a reduction in the democratic powers of the ep or a strengthening of the intergovernmental drift.
the debate on the violations of the rule of law in hungary has become a recurring feature within the european parliament over the past almost 10 years. the outbreak of covid19 has only exacerbated the crisis of democracy in hungary. we have been witnessing the most blatant and unabashed autocratic drift. under the cover of the declaration of a state of emergency, mr orbán has been ruling by decree, without parliamentary scrutiny, for an indefinite period of time, and freedom of the press is increasingly restricted on the pretext of the need to combat disinformation. transgender discrimination is taken to outrageous extremes, taking advantage of the silence of quarantine time. a long list of episodes which is growing in the face of the empty words and inaction of the commission, the council and the epp - the political family of fidez. we cannot continue to be complacent with autocrats. it is time to act with courage and determination. the lack of effectiveness in defending its core values threatens to ruin the eu's credibility. it is imperative to adopt a mechanism for protecting democracy and the rule of law based on the conditionality of respect for them for access to financial transfers from the eu budget.
in writing. – with many countries phasing out of lockdowns, we need a comprehensive and effective strategy to decrease and mitigate the continued threat posed by covid-19 to our societies. one component of an effective covid-19 exit strategy is contact tracing apps, as discussed in our plenary debate today. in order for these contact tracing apps to be effective, we need high levels of trust, protection of citizens’ privacy, and cross-border interoperability. how can we ensure trust, privacy, and interoperability? first, contact tracing apps should only be used by public health authorities and be limited to the emergency response to covid-19. these apps must be consent-based and have the utmost regard for citizens’ privacy. it is worth stressing that contact tracing apps must go hand in hand with other measures, such as social distancing, masks and testing. however, when utilised effectively, and per the above criteria, contact tracing apps can be very beneficial in helping us to learn how to live alongside the virus, until a vaccine or treatment is found.
the eu has recently assumed that the development of a technology aimed at collecting data from citizens via their mobile phones is underway under the pretext of analysing mobility patterns, including the impact of confinement measures on contact intensity and the risks of the spread of covid-19. there are some details which are not clear to us, beyond the scope of application and the concrete objectives. we are therefore concerned about questions such as: who is responsible for collecting and processing the data; what data will be used and collected; how it will be made available and accessed; for how long it will be stored; whether all member states have agreed to the use of this kind of technology; and finally how it is envisaged to safeguard personal data, ensuring full respect for the protection of citizens' data, their privacy, intimacy and confidentiality. in the end, the genuine concern of the installer of the application cannot be transformed into a mechanism for monitoring and controlling citizens and restricting freedoms. whether or not the installation of these applications is voluntary, no one should be discriminated against for not doing so. we reaffirm that the key is to invest in a quality, universal and free public health service.
in writing. the ec proposal for an economic and social recovery plan and the update of the proposal for the 2021/2027 multiannual financial framework respond to the requests of the european parliament: - the creation of a recovery fund, with the ec mobilising this fund on the markets and distributing it among the member states, in a mechanism of mutual responsibility; - the possibility of making this fund available this year. only then will the eu be able to build a european response to the impact of the crisis on people's lives, economies and public accounts. it continues to advocate political priorities such as the green deal or the digital transition. it introduces new priorities such as the rebuilding of the internal market, the creation of a health programme, support for strategic enterprises or the promotion of the resilience of strategic value chains, while increasing funding for cohesion and pillar ii - the cap. it is also the responsibility of the member states to present, in their full rights, national recovery plans. the european parliament will continue to push for an immediate european response to the crisis and for a robust seven-year mff that meets european ambition. that's the only way you'll give your consent.
the european commission's proposal for the recovery fund is an appropriate response, in the financial dimension, to the challenge of reviving the european economy. the 'next generation eu' model for funding this fund is ambitious and meets the solidarity requirement of this crisis. i hope that the process of setting up this fund and its instruments will be swift and effective, with the participation of the european parliament, so as to ensure the democratic nature of this response. we cannot waste any more time and we hope that all the european institutions and national governments will be committed to making these mechanisms operational. i am in favour of a reform of the european union's own resources system that raises its ceiling, streamlines current resources and creates new and innovative union revenues in line with the strategic objectives. i welcome the willingness to make temporary changes, but i hope that it will be an example for a fundamental reform in the near future. the recovery fund calls for a strengthening of the multiannual financial framework and i hope that this effort will result in added value without prejudice to the other european programmes and the integrity of the european structural and investment funds.
colleagues, before we continue with the speakers’ list, i need to make an announcement, which is to open the first voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda adopted today at the opening. the voting session will open from now, at 16.30, until 17.45. the same voting method will be used as during the may i part-session. for the two immunity reports, voting will be by secret ballot. members will be able to cast their vote in the usual way, but the ballot paper that they receive for signature will not display the way they voted, only the fact that they have voted. all of the votes will be held by roll-call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, only explanations of vote containing a maximum of 400 words will be accepted. i now declare the first voting session open, which runs until 17.45, and the results will be announced at 20.15. i do apologise for that brief interruption to this important debate.
we now continue with the debate on the council and commission statements on the anti-racism protests following the death of george floyd (2020/2685(rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, the image of the racist murder of george floyd is not letting go of me and it shouldn't be letting go of all of us. racism is a global, current problem. we too have forms of racism, we have social inequalities: poverty, discrimination, violence, in the housing market, in the workplace, in education systems, in unequal pay, in the treatment of refugees, foreigners and minorities. we all have our hands full if we take our charter of fundamental rights seriously in europe and in the world, if we see it as a call to action: human dignity, respect, non-discrimination, liberal democracy, the rule of law, the protection of minorities. covid-19 is exacerbating social inequality in the long term, so the recovery plan must also be about fighting social inequality in europe, because only in this way can we strengthen democracy and thus also fight against racism and social deprivation.
madam president, i share the view of many previous speakers that they are disgusted by racism and discrimination which have lasted for too long, with indicators which remain extremely worrying, such as the rise in the number of deaths during arrest and the number of investigations for abuse or discrimination. so i'm focusing on three things. firstly, the flagship text, the anti-discrimination directive, which has been stalled for eleven years because the council does not want to change it, perhaps on the pretext that it would be too expensive to fight all discrimination. this must be stopped, either by member states having a better grasp of the seriousness of the issues at stake or by a new legislative proposal. secondly, in my view, the text of our resolution makes no reference to the indispensable actors of the fight against racism and discrimination, the ngos. i believe that if we support them better, we can avoid certain communitarian deviations. finally, the text addresses the question of ethnic statistics. i think we must be very careful in this respect, firstly because of constitutional concerns in some member states and also because these statistics are snapshots at a moment in time which can never replace real economic and social proposals to reduce inequalities.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this very important debate. i think it was very obvious from what the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, said in her opening speech: no place for racism in our union. the commission condemns all instances of racist or xenophobic hatred and violence. but let me also be clear that we condemn violence in general, wherever it comes from, and that the police needs to do its demanding job but always within clear limits of the law. racial or ethnic profiling and selective approaches should not be tolerated. and, by the way, our fundamental rights agency already published, i think two years ago, very useful guidelines which would serve as a training for the police and for the armed forces to avoid this kind of treatment. yes: black lives matter because all lives matter. everyone, black, white or any other race or nationality, deserves the same chance to be able to participate and pursue happiness in our social environment. we all should be able to say to our children and grandchildren: ‘do not worry, nobody will kill you because of the colour of your skin’. but this debate is also about where we are in europe with racism and xenophobia, and we have a lot of data, for instance, from the already mentioned fundamental rights agency in its latest report which brings clear evidence that people with minority backgrounds continue to experience harassment, violence and ethnic and racial discrimination in different areas of life in the eu. indeed, as members said several times here, we have strong legislation but the legislation cannot do the whole job. we have legislation at the highest possible level, as president von der leyen mentioned, the charter of fundamental rights. we have 20 years since the adoption of the racial equality directive and over 10 years after the adoption of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia. we have strong legislation and the situation is still worrying, remains worrying. we indeed need to promote and to get adopted the equal treatment directive, which was mentioned here many times. it’s a shame, i would say, that this directive waits 12 years for adoption and i fully rely on my colleague, helena dalli, who was here a while ago, that she will be very determined to convince the member states to take a unanimous decision, because this this directive requires unanimity. the legislation itself is so important, its implementation and proper enforcement, but we need much more, because what’s our problem? it’s deep-rooted prejudice and thinking grounded in stereotypes. we need awareness-raising, we need education, we need culture and we need equality bodies, which were strengthened by our legislation in the last mandate and which should do the good job. we need trust from the people belonging to minorities to report on the cases of harassment and violence against them. they do not trust, they do not report and next week we will also update our strategy on implementation of the victims’ rights directive to encourage victims to report. but we should do much more not to have the victims. it’s late to respond only with criminal justice. we have problems in all the member states. i would say this is a pan-european problem but with country-specific symptoms. we only have 15 member states at this moment which have a strategy against racism. we have to talk seriously about that; it has to be changed. we also had to work much more with the digital world because we saw a lot of increase of hatred online. we have quite efficient instruments against hate speech and we have the platforms cooperating, but we need to do much more in this direction. this year, as you know, as per the work programme of the commission, we want to uphold our european charter of fundamental rights by adopting the strategy on charter implementation. we will also update the strategies on roma inclusion and lgbti equality later this year. and, if you noticed, also in the proposal for the eu new generation budget, there is a very clear line that it must have social dimension and nobody should be lagging behind, and everybody should get the chance to avail themselves of eu funding. we will have the european social fund, which is also hopefully well equipped to help minorities. we cannot trivialise the matter. this is not about which political colours we are wearing, but about very basic human rights, the right to be treated equally, regardless of colour of skin, our religion or sexual orientation. we politicians should be put more under pressure. we politicians and opinion leaders who have the influence on what society thinks and how the people approach matters related to minorities, we have to refrain from spreading racially charged hatred for political gains and invest in long-term education and culture and do many more long-term measures. as ursula von der leyen said, i can also confirm i don’t have a clue how it feels to be black. i have never experienced any kind of discrimination. that’s why, whenever i go to the member states and i speak, for instance, to young roma people, i always ask those who managed to study at secondary school, who managed to study at university. my question is: ‘how did you manage that’, because i know that their starting line is so difficult, much more difficult than the starting line of my children or the children of many of us here. and they always tell me there were three moments: ‘at some moment i realised i do not want to live the life of my parents. i want to do something more. i want to get out of the trap of, usually, poverty’, poverty was the problem. the second very important thing and condition: ‘i needed to find a helping hand’. those who managed always found a helping hand. in their local community it was the mayor, it was the ngo, it was the teacher or director of the school. they could not manage without the help. so, zero tolerance for discrimination and zero tolerance for racism cannot be enough. we have to take proactive actions and support people to get out of trouble.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, this has been a useful and emotional debate. i would like to thank you for this opportunity to participate in it. i believe that our institutions are largely on the same line with regard to these important issues. respect for human dignity and human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law are the very foundations of the european union. the council is committed to upholding these values in the eu’s external relations, including with our like-minded partners such as the united states. let me assure you once again that the presidency, and the council as a whole, rejects any form of racism and racial discrimination and supports your fight to make sure our values endure. we have a solid legal framework in place which needs to be complemented by effective implementation, enforcement and targeted measures such as education, public debate and counter-narratives. i can assure you that the council will continue to follow this debate very closely and that i listened closely to your views today. we must hear the voice of young people peacefully demanding a better and more just world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 19 june 2020. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. after the death of george floyd, everyone saying 'black lives matter', forgetting that 'all lives matter', everyone ready to go after the police half the world accused of racism. not a word of condemnation against the scum who have used this excuse to ravage, pillage and assault defenseless people with the sole fault of being white. not a word about the images of dijon where chechen and maghreb gangs clashed with firearms. not a word about the barbarians, the attacks on monuments that represent characters who have made history in the west. the new taliban's anti-racist obscurantism has not spared churchill, christopher columbus, julius caesar, indro montanelli and even gone with the wind and chocolate brands. an iconoclastic fury, backed by the biggest corporations, the stateless lobbies of soros, which serves to annihilate the roots of our civilization and increase our sense of guilt to encourage new immigration. anyone who opposes this perverse design is obviously a racist fascist nazi. the phenomenon of sergio sylvestre, the american singer adopted by italy, who was so obsessed with imitating black power that he even forgot the words of our national anthem, must have thought so.
in writing. fifty-seven years after martin luther king's landmark "i have a dream" speech from the steps of the lincoln memorial, in which he called for world peace and respect for the rights of people of all races, religions and nations, we see that the racial problem in the united states has not been resolved, despite the efforts made. but america is not alone, and it is not an exception in this fight. unfortunately, the language of hatred, extreme nationalism and racism is increasingly springing up in our societies. including in europe - the one that claims to be the standard-bearer of freedom, equality and democracy. a number of reasons can be given, but it is a fact that the judiciary is often apathetic to the problem, especially when extreme nationalism is empowered, as is the case in my country, bulgaria. this sense of impunity must end, otherwise we will not eradicate the language of hate and racism, but will watch silently as it happens.
in writing. the resolution we are debating today condemns the murder of the black american citizen george floyd, supports peaceful anti-racism protests and strongly reaffirms the anti-discrimination values that animate the european union and its member states. an institutional framework to address these contemporary challenges is absolutely necessary to ensure that such events do not happen again; many protests have degenerated into violence and vandalism, approaches that cannot bring the positive change we all want. continuing the educational processes through which positive values can be imparted to younger generations, recognising and discussing the negative episodes of recent history across the world and the sincere and sustained efforts of the european institutions to eradicate the harmful effects of these events are the ways forward. we must unleash the violent and destructive impulses of some protesters who either do not understand that the only way we can correct these historical injustices is by abiding by laws and democratic processes, or are motivated by extremist political agendas. these reactions, placed outside the legal framework, facilitate the slide towards much more unequal, intolerant and polarized societies. i support the process of healing these deep wounds in our societies through balanced measures, adopted and implemented following serious debate, not under the pressure of the moment.
in writing. in the us, waves of protest have been echoing a bit everywhere. they confirm that even in the most powerful capitalist power there is resistance and struggle! even if all the uncertainties and difficulties in building an alternative to the iron rule of the bicep-shaped party of republicans and democrats persist, it is increasingly evident that, if those at the top can still do it, the field of those below no longer wants to expand. in a stance of condemnation of racism and police violence and demanding justice for the vile murder of george floyd, protesters (of all colors, backgrounds and ethnicities, of all ages, but especially young people) are condemning a deeply unjust and inhumane social order, exposing to the world the lie and rot of "american democracy" and calling into question the very system of capitalist exploitation. these demonstrations also took place across europe, partly in solidarity with the usa and condemning racism, but also pointing the finger at the discriminatory and exploitative nature of the capitalist system in the "old continent" and in particular that of the european union. we will continue to denounce and repudiate any expressions of racism and to fight them firmly.
madam president, this european council is faced with two major challenges. the first challenge is to find a political agreement that enables a european response to the crisis and has a good proposal on the table. the european parliament was demanding: it called for the revision of the proposal for a multiannual budget, a recovery fund to be added to the budget of the european union, mutual responsibility, eurobonds, more grants than loans, an increase and diversification of own resources as a source of financing for the budget of the european union. he asked for a european response. these principles are an integral part of the commission's proposal. the second challenge is to find a political agreement on the future of the budget of the european union and it has a bad proposal for the second period of the framework. the decision on both is urgent. the european parliament has been demanding and will continue to be so. we also hope that the council will be up to the task.
mr president, the covid-19 pandemic is having devastating consequences on the european economy with union exports set to fall to close to 470 billion euros by the end of this year. the volatility of markets makes european companies vulnerable to foreign attacks. it is therefore urgent to take concrete measures to protect them, especially when they are carried out by participating or state-owned companies. the old maxim that capital has no nationality is valid only until such time as it ceases to be motivated by its remuneration and becomes a political, cultural and civilizational weapon. this type of threat is even greater when it affects strategic sectors, infrastructure or technologies. we need a pragmatic union, an attractive economy and a regulatory framework that allows the origin of foreign capital to be monitored in any and all merger and acquisition processes.
mr president, since the signing of the sino-british declaration on the transfer of hong kong, many people in the region have feared the day when the chinese government would ignore the basic law and turn a blind eye to fundamental rights, as it has done in tibet, xinjiang and a little bit of the rest of china. with the decision to impose the national security law on hong kong, the chinese government has opened the way to disregard for the rule of law and has called into question the principle of 'one country, two systems'. the abuses of the chinese government and the escalation of repression cannot be tolerated. the importance of the strategic relationship between the european union and china cannot mean that we should not be demanding that our actions be consistent with our values. on the contrary, it requires us to defend freedom, human rights, hong kong's autonomy and international law. that is what is expected of the european union.
in writing. recent times have been marked by a theme that leaves no one indifferent: covid-19. covid-19 has shaken up the status quo. in addition to profound changes, there was a phenomenon which made it difficult for the health authorities to act. an infodemia, denounced by the who, defined by an information overload, which made it difficult to find suitable sources and reliable guidelines. the overload of information, much of it not based on scientific evidence, makes it difficult for reliable sources to be found quickly by the general public, policy makers and health professionals when they need them. this glut of unscientific and often contradictory information can leave people feeling anxious, depressed, overwhelmed, emotionally drained, and unable to understand and assimilate important information. disinformation, as well as the assimilation of unvalidated information, can lead to wrong or biased decisions due to lack of scientific evidence. the development of a mechanism to monitor the quality and accuracy of what is published is urgently needed to ensure that the best scientific evidence is used in decision-making processes, but also that credible information validated by the scientific process reaches all citizens.
madam president, the numbers are overwhelming. in 2019, the amazon lost the equivalent of 2,000 football fields of land. in 2020, the numbers are likely to get worse: over 1,000 square miles of forest have been cleared. the action of the brazilian government, which is home to 60% of the amazon territory, by promoting the increasing deregulation of the exploitation of this territory and weakening the authorities responsible for its defense, by authorizing the use of land in protected territories and trying to approve mining on indigenous lands, as well as by opening the possibility of privatization of about 65 million hectares of public land, has been the useful fuse for the exponential increase in predatory activity of natural resources in the region. genocide, ethnocide and ecocide were the words used by 600 indigenous leaders earlier this year to describe the environmental and human tragedy resulting from jair bolsonaro's criminal rule. attacks on environmentalists and indigenous people and murders have increased in a frightening way, fueled by a sense of total impunity and taking advantage of the lesser attention generated by the pandemic. now that we're here, is it time to ask what we can do before it's too late? strengthen support for the protection of forests, their people and those who defend the forest. we must fight against impunity, yes, but we must do more, we must urgently ban the entry of products associated with deforestation into our supply chains and hold european companies accountable for predatory practices. yes, it is possible, commissioner.
mr president, i have said and i will say again that this overall proposal by the commission for a multiannual financial framework and recovery plan is a creative and innovative proposal and we must congratulate the commission for having found the necessary answers within the framework of the treaties. it is the basis for the desired european response to the crisis, an immediate response, but also a revival of the economies. we also welcome the fact that the commission has invoked article 324. that is the view of the european council. the pillar has been moving too slowly in this emergency. the european parliament has a large majority. the risk in this european council is that urgency leads to over-pragmatism, but neither can compromise the future. the recovery plan is key to europe's recovery from the crisis, the multiannual financial framework is key to the next generations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we are asking for this debate not only in the wake of the luanda leaks scandal, not only because of the importance of the facts that have come to light, but because in my country the man who exposed the luanda leaks scandal spent almost a year in prison without being charged, in actual prison, and it was only through enormous public pressure that he was transferred to house arrest and has not yet been tried. and in my country too, we have a tax haven, the madeira offshore, which is a regular stopover for international money laundering networks, and that is why it is so difficult for us to understand why, here in parliament, so often out of political or national sympathies, there is hesitation to point out within the european union the jurisdictions which, by action or omission, benefit money laundering. if we ask, and we are right to ask, the european commission for courage to tackle the phenomenon of money laundering, that courage must begin in this parliament, that is, we must understand that yes, there are high-risk third countries, but not all high-risk countries are third countries. many of them are within the european union and cooperation is needed and national legislation must be changed. there are several aspects of this resolution that are very important at this level: the end of the gold visas, the protection of whistleblowers (and the luanda leaks case is a great example to discuss this issue). the identification of the ultimate beneficiaries and the return of assets that are illegally taken from their rightful owners - these are very important points in this resolution.
mr president, the fight against financial crime must be a priority. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. money laundering is a complex crime and is at the epicentre of many other criminal phenomena: corruption, trafficking in human beings, drugs and arms, terrorist financing or tax fraud and evasion. so our debate goes beyond financial crime. it is a real question of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. europe needs more cooperation, more harmonization of rules and more effective structures. a fragmented europe, with different rules from country to country, is a window of opportunity for criminals. only with a truly european strategy can we close this window and only with more europe will we be able to have less crime.
in writing. at a crucial time for the world, health is proving to be an essential pillar of our society. health is an investment and all sectors must contribute to protecting and promoting health. the european union has a key role to play in promoting health in all its policies, thus focusing on the determinants of health, on the progressive and constant improvement of socioeconomic conditions, and on the promotion of healthy environments and behaviours, and it must carry out an assessment of the health impact of its policies. we need a coordinated, solidarity-based and united european response to covid-19 and to improve our preparedness for future threats, but we cannot neglect other diseases and healthcare. the european union can do even more for the health of our citizens by increasing the competence of its european agencies to better support member states and in collecting health data, to have more evidence and information to support health authorities and policy-making. a short, medium and long-term strategy is essential for member states to be able to respond adequately to health needs and improve their health policies in order to contribute to building a more resilient and healthier europe in the long term and for all.
in writing. the impact of covid-19 has revealed the imperative need for robust, quality, universal and free public health systems capable of providing adequate and effective responses to emergency situations. in addition, the consequences of systemic divestment resulting from the imposition of neoliberal policies, including the economic and political constraints imposed by the eu on member states and specifically on their public health systems, have been clearly demonstrated. we reject the use of covid-19 as a pretext for strengthening the eu's supranational competences in the field of health, as such strengthening would be based on the mercantilist assumptions that the eu has advocated and implemented, of which the cross-border healthcare directive is a paradigmatic example. what is needed is to strengthen the public, universal and free nature of the national health services by increasing investment in infrastructure, material means and human resources, valuing all professionals. this requires ending any conditionality in eu policies that imposes restrictions on increased investment in the national health services; abandoning the path of privatisation and disinvestment in public health services; and rejecting the maintenance or promotion of public-private partnerships in health.
we are looking at yet another report on human rights and democracy in the world today and unfortunately we cannot say that much has changed since the last report. change is slow. however, this is not, and never will be, just another report. year after year, this report tells us about the victims of racism, the indigenous people who were driven from their lands, the political prisoners and journalists, the human rights activists and environmentalists who were persecuted, silenced, murdered. it tells us about people suffering torture and inhuman treatment. it tells us of those who flee war, persecution, hunger and who so often end up finding death, right near us, on our borders, where they only hoped to find an opportunity for a dignified and secure life. this report speaks to us of millions of people who are calling for justice and respect for the rights we aspire to: universal and indivisible. people who, more than what we say here today, are waiting for what we are capable of doing tomorrow. we must take up the uncompromising defence of multilateralism and the values of the european union: combating impunity and taking action, defending the international criminal court against the ignominious attack being made on it, implementing the european system of sanctions against perpetrators of human rights violations, establishing a mandatory due diligence mechanism, preventing products obtained through human rights violations and environmental attacks from entering our trade chains and building a european pact for migration and asylum that honours the humanist values of the european union.
the report by mrs lulling, which i am sure will be very useful to the house, is a report on the situation in the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the report. and that is why it is so important that, knowing that there are important differences between the various political groups as regards the functioning of the labour market, as regards public services, economic policies, we have achieved a consensus, such a broad and comprehensive majority, in support of a set of policies which are fundamental to protecting the jobs of those who have them and also protecting public services and social policies for those who do not have, or will lose, their jobs during this economic and social crisis. and so i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their work, for the spirit of commitment that has enabled this text to be drawn up, which has already had very important support from the european trade union confederation and which will, i think, be a very important contribution from the european parliament to the achievement of the strategic plan which has been stated many times in this house to respond to this crisis, to respond in the most energetic and inclusive way we can, leaving no one behind. i think that is the spirit which has motivated all the rapporteurs who have supported this report.
madam president, i would like to begin by greeting minister roth. i know this is a matter that is dear to you, and therefore we count on you to defend the rule of law. any country wishing to become a candidate for membership of the european union must meet the so-called copenhagen criteria and therefore respect the rule of law. it cannot abandon this requirement when it becomes a member state. that is the european union we want. we need to ensure that the financial contribution of citizens to the european project is actually applied to the european project. it is therefore necessary to adopt a new powerful mechanism, which will allow action to be taken whenever the rule of law is violated, which will protect the beneficiaries, which will respect the institutional powers of the european parliament, including in budgetary matters. finally, we must protect democracy and the rule of law and ensure that european taxpayers' money is well spent in defence of european policies and values.
this crisis has caused an unbearable number of deaths, but it has also had a brutal impact on the lives of individuals, families, economies and states. a crisis with global impact. citizens expected a european response: immediate but also a robust programme for economic and social recovery. cohesion policy has proved to be the best-placed instrument for building these two responses. i'll get right on it. allowing member states to use cohesion funds still available with full flexibility to meet the immediate needs of households, local authorities, businesses, in particular smes. using remaining margins to launch specific programmes to strengthen health systems, health research and protect jobs. the european union is a key player in the construction of the european response. the increase in cohesion funding via the recovery fund, with the react-eu programme, with the addition of the mff 2014/2020. but it is also expected that cohesion resources will be used up in the next mff 2021/2027. at the same time, cohesion policy will have to continue to contribute, and contribute more, to the digital transition, to the fight against climate change, but also to the realisation of the european pillar of social rights. the demands are high. cohesion policy has entered a new generation and will respond to new challenges.
madam president, the joint european debt issue is an important precedent, but it is debt we are talking about. while we do not have our own resources - and they have not advanced a millimetre at this council meeting - what we are doing is advancing money from future budgets, and so we are only talking about debt and we should not deceive the citizens in this respect. and with this debt comes the return of the famous macroeconomic conditionality, which led the european union to a disastrous response to the previous crisis, disastrous for the economy and disastrous for the citizens and for the european project. and the price of achieving this solution was a smaller budget, a budget that will make the european union a more unequal union and therefore less union , and it was also necessary to buy the four countries that call themselves frigals. countries that tell the rest of europe about the rules, but don't mind receiving checks, now increased, outside the european rules of contribution to the budget. countries that like to lecture the rest of the european union, but took this bribe to agree to the plan that was approved. countries that talk about rules and talk about morality, but are the biggest beneficiaries of the existence of the single market and the single market rules and have even violated the rules on macroeconomic imbalances year after year for almost a decade, at least in the case of the netherlands and germany. and so we are supporting this resolution because it says very clearly that the european parliament will not accept the budget as it stands, and that means talking about a more unequal union and that means talking about this scandal of rebates, cheques passed on to some of the richest economies in europe, and we shall see whether in future debates all the political groups in this house will remain faithful to the content of this resolution and to the content of this refusal to go down the road of a more unequal union, of a more unjust union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this time there is a european response to the crisis. citizens, families, businesses, civil society organisations and states can count on the european response. that's what we were hoping for. the european parliament has advocated the creation of a recovery fund based on the issuance of joint debt. the european response is based on this background. i congratulate the european commission for being creative and for building an ambitious and balanced european proposal for a mff and a recovery plan in conjunction with each other. the member states are certainly satisfied with the financial envelopes at their disposal. but we are left with a concern that, as president von der leyen mentioned, is shared by the european commission: how to relaunch strategic programmes for the future and that increase our resilience, such as erasmus, horizon europe, digital europe, eu4health, creative europe or rights and values? that is why the european parliament strongly welcomes the european response, but will not fail to use all the mechanisms at its disposal to achieve a more robust budget of the european union. and for that we rely on the commission, the institution that looks after the interests of the union. yes, it is the union's interest that is at stake, it is the european added value but we also count on the european leaders who, in this long negotiation, have been more in favour of the european interest than their national interests. and we want a mid-term review that also looks at gender mainstreaming and where we are on climate goals. but above all, it discusses the financing of the european union budget. until then we have to introduce new own resources, such as a digital tax or a financial transaction tax. the majority of the union budget being based on a percentage of the gross national income of the member states leads to the same disputes every 7 years. finally, the conference on the future of europe must play an important role here.
mr. president, seven months ago we woke up to a new reality. we have seen with our own eyes the devastating effect of a previously unknown virus, and the speed with which it has spread around the world is only comparable to the speed of the fear itself it has generated. one after another, all the countries of our union have been affected and in all of them, without exception, many lives have been lost. fear and the need to stop the virus have paralyzed our factories, shut down our schools, and for months left our lives on hold. but europe did not stop. once again europe has risen to the challenge, silencing with actions and decisions the populists who have been announcing the end of our european union again and again. i particularly welcome the decision to move forward with the tax on single-use plastics as a new own resource of the union, a small step with great significance for the new generations. but not all is good news: the council has abandoned an instrument for solvency of enterprises, a very important aid, a real emergency aid, and has forced cuts in horizon europe, the erasmus programme and the just transition fund. the happy name nextgenerationeu thus loses part of its meaning. unfortunately, governments have chosen to agree with the basque philosopher daniel innerarity when he says that too often the future is the garbage can of the present.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has exposed the european union's weaknesses and identified areas and sectors that need additional investment and attention. the proposal adopted this week by the european council has specific features which should concern us in the context of a pandemic, such as cuts in the commission's proposal on health and research programmes. it is essential that we invest in health, science and technology. the new mff should be an opportunity to invest in strategic areas, not forgetting programmes that contribute to the development and cohesion of eu regions and member states. the system needs to be redesigned in line with the principles of the european green deal, sustainable and aligned with the digital transition and always putting people first. for a more resilient european union, one that responds to the needs of the present and considers future generations.
the european council meeting, which was shaped and guided by the interests of the main beneficiaries of the integration process, highlighted the nature of the eu, which has generated inequalities, divergences and asymmetries, and whose only concern is capitalist competition in the single market, with no room for any solidarity between states. the conclusions of the european council set very unfavourable conditions for a country like portugal. for example, there is a significant cut in the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 (at least in cohesion and agriculture), which is all the more serious as this framework will be a reference for the future. and while portugal is expected to increase its contribution to the eu budget, other countries (the netherlands, austria, sweden, denmark and also germany), the main beneficiaries of integration, are guaranteed a substantial increase in the discount to their respective contributions that they already enjoy. the recovery fund is also insufficient, particularly in its 'grants' component, which has been reduced from 500 to 390 billion. as the weight of the loan component will increase, there will be even more indebtedness of states, such as portugal, which are already facing higher levels of indebtedness. in our view, all mechanisms that enshrine increased eu interference in the implementation of investment options and other sovereign decisions of member states should be rejected.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the recovery of the community's debt, but that it should be a matter of the member states themselves. only this proposed calendar is more like the greek calendars. the carbon market will be dealt with fairly quickly, but the digital tax, the financial transaction tax, the cctb on multinationals, those will have to wait many years. parliament is putting off for years what it should be doing today. in the case of the cctb, the tax base for multinationals, the european parliament is referring this dossier, this very important own resource, to its next mandate. in other words, this european parliament is preparing to decide that it will not decide. it is time - and this is the timetable - for the european parliament to realise the urgency of these own resources and to set itself a timetable in line with this urgency.
mr president, minister roth, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, the financial architecture of the european response to the crisis is based on a key pillar: own resources. it is urgent and it is necessary and it cannot compromise the future of generations. we must therefore do everything we can to mobilise new own resources and we look forward to a rapid initiative from the council. own resources aligned with the political priorities of the european union, such as the green deal or the digital transition. the new own resources should now be used to pay next generation eu commitments and to finance repayment by member states, so as not to create further difficulties after 2028. and in the near future they will be used to finance the budget of the european union. this is also an opportunity for a fairer tax system, it is the right time to launch a financial transaction tax and a tax on large digital companies. both should contribute to the financing of the budget of the european union.
mr president, the european union's relationship with turkey is being tested once again by provocative unilateral actions by the turkish government. there are many examples to be cited, from incidents at land borders to the disregard for the rule of law and now the very serious intervention in the exclusive maritime zones of two member states. how long will this kind of behaviour by a candidate country which is a partner in nato be tolerated? it's time to be clear. several red lines have been crossed. it is therefore imperative to move towards an arms embargo and to strengthen the targeted sanctions lists. we must continue to support turkish civil society, which is also a victim of mr erdogan's totalitarian mismanagement. we must keep diplomatic channels of dialogue open, but these incidents cannot be ignored. erdogan must realise that his behaviour in recent weeks and his destabilising strategy in general will not go unanswered. the attacks on greece and cyprus are attacks on the european union.
it is truly impressive that the belarusian people have taken to the streets since the august elections to demand respect for human rights and democracy. human rights and democracy, this is the agenda that has led thousands of protesters to lose their fear and confront the regime that has a black record of disrespecting freedom. many have been victims of violence, repression, arbitrary detention, torture and exile. the european union cannot turn its back on the appeal of trade unionists, students, journalists, men and women who are risking their lives. europe cannot but support the belarusian people. i listened carefully to the commissioner about the support provided and i welcome it, but we must move forward with the application of sanctions against the lukashenko regime and demand elections supervised by the osce and organised in accordance with the osce-odihr recommendations in previous electoral acts.
the explosion in the port of beirut has left lebanon in tatters, with the pandemic at its hands and in the throes of a deep economic, political and social crisis which requires an extensive reform process and an intense fight against corruption, accompanied by a full acceptance of responsibility by all political actors. the resilient lebanese people did not deserve such a ordeal. now, above all, we must ensure that aid reaches quickly to those who are homeless, those who need health care and food, and that it is delivered to those who need it, without any kind of fraudulent use. i welcome the aid being sent through various european countries, such as portugal and germany, and the visit of commissioner lenarčič a few days ago. modernisation and reforms are essential to the recovery and reconstruction of the country, but they require a dialogue between all political and social forces, and the european union has a crucial role to play in preventing the conquest of space by geopolitical interests with disastrous consequences for the lebanese people and the region. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to add my voice to that of my colleague, mr van dalen, to remind you of sergey yushchenko, alexander litvitiniov, anna politkowskaja, natalia estemirova, sergei magnitsky, boris nemtsov, and the all too long list of political opponents of mr putin, journalists, human rights activists who were murdered and whose deaths were mysterious. let's be clear, there is a pattern of physical elimination of figures inconvenient to mr. putin's regime and that cannot go unpunished. in the case of the poisoning of alexei navalny, it is necessary to provide rapid evidence of the use of the novichok family neurological agent gathered by the german authorities and confirmed by french and swedish laboratories, and that the russian federation cooperate in an independent and impartial investigation, and that all those responsible ... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, nine months into an unprecedented pandemic, we are now in a chronic risk management phase. in nine months, and despite the efforts of the european institutions, we have seen a real lack of coordination between the member states. i would remind you that public health is a shared competence between all member states and the union and must always respect the fundamental rights of european citizens. it is therefore urgent to create a genuine european health union. this is one of the greatest needs felt during this pandemic. we need effective, coordinated and shared management to ensure that european citizens have confidence in their authorities at all levels. the commission, with the advice of the ecdc, should promote with the member states a common methodology for data collection with the standardisation of the definitions of cases and deaths from covid-19. only then will we be able to harmonise risk assessment throughout the union. it is urgent to develop a common framework of public health measures to be adopted by the authorities in the face of different levels of risk, thus allowing better perception and adherence by citizens. only with effective coordination can we ensure an efficient and resilient single market that ensures the availability of products throughout the european union and for all its citizens.
mr president, madam president of the commission, you have spoken to us about the importance of investing in health, of promoting collective bargaining, of defending minimum wages in europe, but it was your european commission that five months ago told the portuguese government to cut health expenditure. it was the european commission, it was several european commissions, that promoted and pressured the member states to dismantle collective bargaining systems. it was several european commissions that told my government and other governments to freeze the minimum wage, and so where are we? what we are going to have in the next few years is a european commission that is going to mark a complete turnaround in european policies in these areas, or are these just nice ideas to put in your speech while your technical teams are pressing governments to do the opposite? on the environment, i wanted to understand something: how did we radically change the targets for reducing carbon emissions - and it wasn't enough - without coming here to present the concrete measures that will support these more ambitious targets, because what it seems to hear from you is that there is simply an unshakable faith in the industry leaders, who brought us here, in new technologies whose results are uncertain, to be nice, or in the old technology of hammering the bills, which may fool some citizens but does not fool the planet.
in writing. the debate on the state of the union in parliament dignifies the eu. for the solemnity. for the moment of reflection. for the opportunity to ask the president of the commission about the course of the past year and about the future. and this year is full of challenges: the traditional ones and all those that are the result of the pandemic crisis. the president rightly emphasises the eu's geostrategic role. consider this a geopolitical commission. the eu is at the heart of the network of multilateral alliances. it is a pillar of the multilateral system. it has a privileged relationship with international organisations. it recently endorsed a strategy for africa on five pillars: growth and jobs, the green deal, digital transition, peace and security, and migration and mobility. good neighbourly relations, peace-keeping and economic growth in the eu's neighbouring regions are also a priority. the same is true of humanitarian aid and development policies, where the eu is the world's most generous partner in terms of funding. i choose this theme because the eu budget proposal 2021/2027 is clearly insufficient to meet all these ambitions. the commission's proposal to increase the financing of eu foreign policy by the recovery fund was not agreed by the european council. the crisis has had an impact on international organisations, the multilateral system, and the citizens and organisations of third countries.
in writing. these are challenging times for the european union. the degree of complexity of today's challenges has increased enormously. with an eye to the future of our citizens, we must do everything possible to build a true european health union, which is more resilient to future threats. we have a duty to provide an unprecedented economic response. the financial incentive must reach european people and economies quickly. only with concrete measures that promote sustainable recovery and growth will we be able to overcome this crisis. it is therefore absolutely necessary to protect the most vulnerable by strengthening social support and committing to a minimum wage across the european union. ensure financial support for the digital transition and strengthen the commitment to decarbonise the european economy by 2050 at the latest. finally, it is urgent to respond to the demographic challenge we face. we will continue to make efforts to emerge from this pandemic stronger and with a robust and more coordinated european strategy. the target? the aim remains the same: to build a more united, more united, stronger and more democratic europe.
in writing. the president of the commission's speech left a trail of very good intentions. it was important to hear the views, in the right and humanistic sense, on european policy towards migrants and refugees. i hope that they will be reflected in the european pact for migration. the commission has also been critical of the human rights violations at the union's borders and has not committed itself to a relocation process based on binding solidarity between member states. the disaster of moria is its very existence, as well as that of many other refugee camps, where hope is lost in the inhumanity of survival. i also welcome your support for the end of the mandatory rule of unanimity in the eu for decisions on human rights and foreign policy, something i have always advocated. i hope there is enough political courage to go ahead. we shall see whether the vision which the president of the commission revealed in her speech will be put into practice, overcoming selfishness, nationalism, populism and, in short, the short-sightedness of many. unfortunately, we have become accustomed to seeing great ideas and proposals take too long to get off the paper, and when they do, they often fall short of the ambition indicated in the presentation speeches. i hope this time it can be different!
in writing. the fires that broke out in the early hours of 9 september in the moria refugee camp have reduced to ashes what was once the centre of welcome for those seeking help and a better life in europe. more than 12,000 people, including children and adolescents, were held there in inhumane conditions in a camp that was considered by various human rights organizations to be four times overcrowded. if conditions in this camp were already clearly precarious before covid-19, they worsened further with the confinement of the camps, endangering the health and even the lives of the people there. these fires in a refugee camp are a clear example of the consequences of the implementation of eu migration policies, the construction of a 'fortress europe' that violates the most basic human rights, and the lack of legal and safe routes. it is imperative now to assist, welcome and integrate these people into society, and at the same time to ensure that accidents of this kind do not occur in other refugee camps, ensuring hygiene and sanitation conditions and health services, while people are not removed from the camps to safer and more humane places.
madam president, and i quote my colleague mr goerens, there is no security without development and no development without security. time is running out for us to respond to those who are currently refugees in the forest, without water, without food, without medical care, to respond to the more than seven million people who urgently need help and who are struggling in an impoverished country and in a country that has experienced several disasters in recent times. the european union therefore has an obligation to respond, but a structured response, in the first instance, a humanitarian response to the most pressing needs of the people and, in the second instance, which must go in parallel, in a project developed jointly with the other local institutions, the regional organisations, the neighbouring governments in order to have a development and peace programme for the region and what is happening in mozambique does not only affect mozambique and has a vast potential to affect neighbouring countries. but i cannot speak of mozambique without mentioning the case of américo sebastião, a european citizen of portuguese nationality who disappeared four years ago in the province of sofala, and i would like to ask all the european authorities to raise this case in dialogue with the mozambican authorities and to ask for an explanation of this case. there is a family and there is a group of friends who still today are waiting for an explanation for what happened to américo sebastião.
in writing. democracy, the rule of law, fundamental rights, respect for and protection of minorities are core values of the eu. we are witnessing the violation of some of these principles by member states. the ability of the european institutions to act in cases where these values appear not to be respected must be ensured. a rule of law mechanism is therefore urgently needed, not just one more but in a complementary perspective with other instruments. the report on the rule of law in the eu, now presented by the european commission, is an initiative that deserves support. corruption and freedom of the press should be examined in this regular report. but it's not enough. democracy, fundamental rights, freedom of association, or the protection of the most vulnerable groups must be equally scrutinized. this objective and evidence-based monitoring mechanism should ensure that these principles are followed in all eu member states. this strategy should be based on interinstitutional cooperation, in a transparent and regular process, so that the promotion of eu values becomes effective and has visibility in the european agenda. addressing the crisis of values in the eu is also a precondition for re-establishing mutual trust between member states.
madam president, minister roth, commissioner hahn, it is never too late to remind you that the copenhagen criteria establish, and i quote, 'the stability of the institutions which guarantee democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities', for the sake of completeness. since 1993, each country has known that in order to be a candidate for membership of the european union, it must respect this principle. and for negotiations to begin, the country has to meet the first criterion. this one, the one i quoted. no country can fail to respect it once it becomes a full member. it's an obligation of all 27. that is also the approach taken in the european commission's report. that is the european union we want. the funding that the european union has or is able to make available to the member states, namely the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund, is financed, directly or indirectly, by the money of european citizens. and principles such as transparency and the sound use of public money prevail, but so does a commitment to european political priorities, a commitment to european values. and that is why we need a robust mechanism, which protects the final beneficiaries, which protects european values, which does not undermine the european union's ability to provide a european response to this crisis. we have already created this expectation among the european citizens, particularly with the creation of the recovery fund. and we are counting on you, minister roth, to reach agreement on a rule of law mechanism in the council.
mr president, in 2017, in portugal, there were 12% of women on the boards of publicly listed companies. that same year, we passed a law in our parliament that mandated quotas, and in 2019, the percentage of women in executive positions was 22%. i remember the arguments against the law, that there were no competent women, particularly for companies in the financial sector - judging by the 2008 crisis, men also did not show much competence - that women had no management experience, but if they do not hold the positions, how can they have experience? that the women were not available, but how could the invitation have been extended to them? come on, think about it. this is hard, and your kids are gonna need you. it's not gonna ruin your personal life. and finally, that we would still be able to move forward without quotas, through dialogue and self-regulation, which we know is not true. it's time to break this deadlock. i hope that the german presidency will do so, but if it does not, i hope that the portuguese presidency will draw on its own success story and find the majority needed to overcome this blockade which has lasted for too long.
madam president, vice-president šefčovič, there is an 'agenda' and a 'no agenda' for the next european council. the ratification process by national parliaments, which is necessary for the establishment of the recovery fund, is blocked in the council. the rule of law mechanism is being used as a blackmailing tool in the council. europeans are waiting for a european response to the crisis. in july, they thought they would have it, but in fact it is stuck in the council and is getting delayed. as a member of the negotiating team, i would like to call on the council to use this european council to do its work with european leaders to break this deadlock, and so that citizens, families, businesses and states can benefit from the european response to the crisis. it is not enough to say that this time we have achieved an innovative european response. it is necessary and urgent that it reaches the citizens and that they feel that the eu protects them... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr high representative, yes, there is no solution to the conflict in nagorno-karabakh other than through dialogue and negotiation, and so, as has been repeatedly insisted, there must be an immediate ceasefire without conditions, a resumption of mediated dialogue and the strictest respect by the parties for the principles enshrined in the helsinki final act and the six basic principles agreed within the framework of the osce minsk group. warlike speeches or calls for the use of force and confrontational actions cannot be tolerated and an attack on civilian targets can never be allowed to go unpunished, and the use of cluster bombs must be investigated. we cannot tolerate destabilising interference by third parties, as we have seen from turkey, an attitude which is absolutely unacceptable in a candidate country for accession and which is constantly making a permanent appeal to confrontation and destabilisation at various border points to the european union. that said, mr high representative, i must call for the european union to be more actively involved, not only in this conflict but also in other protracted conflicts, which are always potential sources of destabilisation.
the honourable member had the opportunity to speak at the end of the debate if he wished to defend his honour on that occasion. i think that he has done so already, and that is why we are continuing with the interventions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be consistent. we cannot defend the rule of law within our union and in belarus and then not defend it in venezuela. the maduro regime has been declared guilty by the un of crimes against humanity. and you, mr. vice president, authorized a mission to deal with this dictator: but that mission ended up being a farce that actually served to support maduro, since the trip was organized together with the regime. do you know what la carlota is? the carlota is a military air base in the center of caracas, which is used as a landing strip only by the regime's planes and by private planes that the regime authorizes. how is it possible that a european union mission could have used this military airport? is there any more evidence that his trip was prepared and organized in connivance with the maduro regime than the fact that his delegation was considering the possibility of landing in la carlota? did they land there at last? or where did the private plane land? who hired that plane? would you be willing to show me the invoices for the payment of this flight? what goals did this trip achieve? has maduro committed himself to ensuring a transparent vote, monitored by third-party authorities? using fingerprints or software? legalization of parties and leaders opposed to dictatorship, free election committees? has he given assurances that the regime will stop illegally financing european parties that are in government, as in italy and spain, as some press reports have reported? the key point, to conclude, mr. president, is that maduro is trying not to have presidential elections, under the pretext of having elections to renew the legislative assembly. but the legislative assembly has already been renewed and maduro's party has lost! now we must vote to elect the new head of state!
mr. president, today we should be here discussing the impact of covid in latin america, as proposed by the socialists and democrats. the public health problems it has exacerbated, the unemployment it has caused, the inequalities it has deepened and the despair and hopelessness it has left. about one in every three deaths from coronavirus worldwide is in latin america, adding up to more than 300,000 victims. we should discuss what help we can mobilize for this region with which we have so many historical ties. we should look at the setback this crisis has caused in the fight against poverty, estimating the loss of a decade's progress in just six months. we should think about how we can not leave behind the thousands of children who are out of school, who have no internet, and no parents at home who can teach them. but no, none of this seemed urgent to the political groups on our right. they have replaced this debate with another discussion on the political crisis in venezuela, the seriousness of which i do not wish to ignore, unless there is a new proposal, a new idea, which will allow us to break out of the impasse we have reached, just because the vice-president and high representative has made a living attempt to ensure that there are fair and free elections while maintaining a path of dialogue. this is a decision which does not dignify parliament, and does not help venezuela, let alone latin america.
mr president, mr high representative, how is it possible that this house, the european parliament, learns through the press of your mission to caracas, your mission to negotiate with the dictatorship? is this the new foreign policy of the european union towards venezuela? no, it's not a good idea. it's not a good idea. you, the high representative, acted independently. later, you said in the press that the venezuelan opposition commissioned you to negotiate with the dictatorship. i ask you now: who specifically from the opposition commissioned it? so far, in all my contacts with the representatives of president guaidó and the democratic opposition, i have heard nothing about that request. i want to make it clear to the democratic forces in venezuela, to all our friends in venezuela, that, first, the european parliament does not recognise maduro and recognises that there cannot be a transitional government with him. we recognize juan guaidó as the legitimate interim president of venezuela. and secondly, until free presidential elections are held under the necessary conditions, legislative measures cannot be advanced. the european parliament has always been very clear about its position on venezuela. actions such as this undermine efforts to act as a european union in a joint and credible way on the world stage.
mr president, mr borrell, i must admit that i do not know why we are having this debate, i do not quite understand why certain forces, particularly the right-wing and far-right forces in this house, are calling into question the fact that the european union is sending a forward-looking delegation through the european external action service, whose mission is to try to find a democratic and peaceful solution to the complicated, delicate, worrying situation in venezuela. are you really calling into question the european union's constructive role? diplomatically? you know what diplomacy is all about? they know it perfectly well, they know it with respect to all the conflicts in the world. we have just had a debate on the conflict between azerbaijan and armenia and many of us have called for greater involvement of the european union. we always ask for a stronger role for the european union as a global actor, exporting european values, but when we come to venezuela the opposite of the magnetic effect occurs. you go to extremes and throw venezuela over your head. normally the representatives of the spanish state because it has interests of internal politics. no, the solution to venezuela's problem will lie with its people, with its institutions, but the european union must do everything in its power to help find those solutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to clear up a misunderstanding: this is not a debate on spanish domestic policy. we are talking about this serious fact because it is a problem that concerns the entire international community, the united nations, the free world that opposes this criminal dictatorship. if anyone on the left hasn't figured it out yet, maybe they should update their message and understand that we are dealing with a problem that affects the whole world, as well as the venezuelan people. we have heard, mr vice-president, some serious words, because they may be part of the truth but they are certainly not the whole truth. we have seen a mission of high-ranking eu officials which has ended up further legitimising the maduro regime as an interlocutor. so once again we are calling loudly for free, democratic and transparent presidential elections and at the same time for maduro to step down from power, whose anarchist-communist regime has been responsible for grave crimes, including a real humanitarian emergency, remembering, in these few seconds, the millions of refugees, real refugees, who are fleeing from this dictatorship. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
mr president, despite threats and blackmail, pressure and destabilisation, blockades and sanctions, all in violation of international law, the bolivarian republic of venezuela is organising an electoral process within the framework of its constitution for next 6 december for presidential and parliamentary elections. unfortunately, once again the european union, by refusing to participate as an election observer, prefers to side with those who engineer coups and orchestrate farces to promote a self-appointed president who was not elected by the people, but by the trump administration. what is needed at this time is for the european union to demand respect for the functioning of the democratic institutions in venezuela and not to align itself with coups which daily undermine the rights and living conditions of the venezuelan people and the luso community. what is needed is an end to the blockade that so many trials have dictated to that people, especially in times of covid-19, making it difficult to access essential goods and medicines, that is, the right to life and health.
mr president, mr high representative, we have once again spoken about venezuela. with elections scheduled for december taking place in a context of pandemic crisis, but also in a context of social, political and economic degradation. this is a scenario which has been dragging on for several years and which has given rise to several resolutions and debates in this house. it is important that we as the european union play an active role and be at the forefront of the venezuelan issue. we need peaceful and democratic solutions. i therefore call on the high representative to continue his good offices in ensuring that the diplomatic channel and dialogue with all the parties involved remain open. we're elected to work for the people. we must also ensure that the people of venezuela can count on our support and solidarity.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i am sure that the commission will take it up with the council and the european parliament. two examples of what i have just said in these two reports. first, the pressure, the insistence on pressure for a more favourable tax treatment for private pension products. even after all the experiments in privatising social security systems have resulted in social catastrophes, this parliament insists on making taxpayers pay for the privatisation of social security in countries through tax exemptions and benefits. the second example concerns the very weak regulation proposed for cryptocurrencies despite the common diagnosis of a large part of the political groups that cryptocurrencies have no utility, produce no social advantage, do not respond to any customer needs, serve to promote tax evasion and fraud and promote illegal transactions, and yet parliament is moving forward with an extraordinarily backward regulatory proposal, even contributing to the idea that cryptocurrencies have something to offer consumers when they do not. there are only a few currencies, and they are the ones that benefit from guarantees that only the states are in a position to offer.
madam president, the development of capital markets in europe is essential for economic growth after this pandemic. better opportunities for financing the activity of our smes are essential if we are to achieve better employment opportunities for europeans. much more information is needed from citizens to increase the base of individual investors. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. but experience has shown time and time again, as in successive scandals like the wirecard, that with the development of digital wire transfer services, with cryptocurrencies comes a lot of money laundering and a lot of tax fraud. european regulation and supervision must therefore promote the controlled development of these markets, regulating transactions and promoting a strong monetary base associated with digital currencies so that citizens' insecurity does not undermine such a promising market in the future.
madam president, the european commission came here crying crocodile tears in the same week that it removed the cayman islands from the list of non-cooperative offshore jurisdictions, a list so short that i would say it would indicate that jurisdictions, at least in europe, are all very cooperative with the authorities, that it becomes difficult to understand why these scandals keep recurring and the only ones who have done anything to combat money laundering have been the journalists and whistleblowers who have been promoting these scandals. because this particular scandal involves banks, many of them european, german, french, cypriot, involves transactions, involves crimes that have been promoted and in which these banks are complicit. what will happen to these european banks? what will happen to the member states that are at the top of the world rankings for financial secrecy and that protect these banks? the commission says it will not hesitate to hold member states accountable. we have been hearing this talk from the commission for years and what we see is the commission hesitating, hesitating, hesitating.
madam president, once again the scandal of illegal money transfers across the world to escape capital controls, to escape sanctions, always with opacity and tax evasion as a backdrop. europe must act, speak less and do more, finally move towards stricter regulation, but above all towards mandatory enforcement in all member states and european control bodies with sufficient resources to act. capital knows no frontiers, and it is therefore clear that national states cannot be effective on their own. we do not need regulation from europe like the one that led to the council's decision this week to remove the cayman islands from the list of tax havens. what we need, and this is what we need, is stronger sanctions against non-cooperative countries. it is unacceptable that there should continue to be people around the world who exploit opacity as a factor of competitiveness. let us make this a fight for all of us so that citizens do not continue to lose confidence in the institutions.
the fight against money laundering must be a priority for the european union. the successive scandals and revelations, to which the fincen files are added, are proof that the member states are not succeeding, on their own, in eradicating this crime which, in addition to corruption, is at the origin of the financing of criminal and terrorist organisations. among the various institutions mentioned are european banks that have been moving billions of dollars of suspicious origin for 17 years. we therefore need greater european integration in this area. we need the member states to transpose and, above all, implement the european directives on money laundering, particularly the fourth and fifth, as a matter of urgency and correctly. the commission's communication of may on this subject must be consistent and this parliament must be prepared to respond with ambition. in the face of evidence of criminal activity, banking institutions cannot consent to the continuation of financial transactions. we must move forward with binding rules in the field of regulation. i therefore call on the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation to that effect. in the long term, we also need to discuss the creation of a european authority to supervise and coordinate the national structures for combating this crime.
mr president, bars and other residential units have become one of the main challenges of this pandemic in terms of, in particular, the prevention and control of sars-cov-2 infection. i remind you that these are not health care units. according to ecd, one of the main factors contributing to the spread of this virus is related to the workers in these units who may have been carriers of the virus or who simply may not have had training and access to the appropriate equipment and testing in a timely manner. it is therefore urgent to respond in a coordinated way to this challenge, to protect our most vulnerable, to equip professional carers with the appropriate training, to intensify screening and to ensure good coordination at regional, national and european level, as this parliament called for at the last plenary session. we have to take care of our most vulnerable, but we also have to take care of those who take care of them.
in writing. the coronavirus outbreak has wide-ranging and far-reaching implications for society as a whole, but the situation in long-term care facilities requires special attention. a significant proportion of pensioners in such institutions are elderly people who, due to their age, are at high risk of acute illness and death. at the same time, the risk of transmission of the virus in care facilities is very high due to the close contact of pensioners with other people. a surge in the number of cases in such centres could overburden local hospitals, resulting in poorer health care for the most vulnerable population to the effects of coronavirus. it is important to remember that isolating the elderly in such facilities is not the answer. the ban on group visits and activities has a negative impact on mental health, and isolation increases the risk of neglect and sometimes abuse of older people. we cannot allow the elderly to be abandoned and left to fend for themselves. the health and life of the elderly is a moral obligation for all of us and an element of the intergenerational solidarity we so badly need today. we cannot allow the situation to develop as in belgium or the netherlands, where the elderly were denied help because the priority was to care for the younger ones. measures should be implemented to ensure the safety, care and comfort of the most vulnerable groups in the facilities.
in writing. covid-19 has exposed the weaknesses in some member states in the continuing care units, which are very inadequate in responding to the needs of the population. the numerous shortcomings in the provision of care at this level, in terms of capacity and human resources, are not new: the problem was there; the virus just exposed it. the ageing of a significant part of the population should lead to these areas being considered as important or priorities, also conditioning the need for greater integration of primary care with hospital care. there is a long standing demand for strengthening continuing care units by creating integrated networks in public services, in conjunction with primary health care. the model of contracting services with the social and private sectors creates many difficulties in accessing the necessary care at the appropriate time and place. if we are to provide continuous integrated care to people who, regardless of age, are in a situation of dependence, then other policies are needed that allow public investment and the strengthening of means capable of guaranteeing universal, affordable and quality responses to all those who need this care.
madam president, the covid-19 crisis has claimed thousands of lives and exacerbated inequalities in latin america. the worst that could happen there, as here, is that, in addition, covid is also a pretext for suppressing fundamental rights and freedoms. that's what's happening in nicaragua. the three proposals under discussion, the foreign agents law, the cybercrime and fake news law and the change in sentences for hate crimes deepen president ortega's authoritarian drift. in the face of this situation, the european union can only respond firmly and clearly, not by condoning this grave violation of human rights. however, a diplomatic break does not serve the interests of the union or the nicaraguans. we will therefore do everything we can to support civil society in nicaragua, to find a way of dialogue, and to ensure that the hope of bringing this country on the path to democracy remains alive.
author. madam president, there are alarming reports of torture, degrading treatment and even death to which ethiopian migrants, including women and children, are exposed in saudi arabia, arbitrarily detained in overcrowded centers where sanitation, water and food are lacking, that is when they escape being slaughtered when crossing the border, a scenario that persists in time, having been aggravated by the pandemic. all this in a country which has the death penalty and has been the author of repeated violations of human rights, such as the cases of mr khashoggi, mr badawi and so many others which have been the subject of resolutions in this parliament in the past. we have not forgotten moriah within our borders, nor will we turn a blind eye to the tragedy of the approximately 30 000 ethiopian migrants detained in saudi arabia and the many other victims of human rights violations. we condemn the inhumane treatment of these migrants and call for their immediate release. the european union must give clear signals in its relations with saudi arabia, by reducing its diplomatic representation at the next g20 summit in the country and terminating cooperation agreements, as well as putting an end to the sale of equipment that could be used for surveillance or repression of the population. it is also necessary to support ethiopia in creating conditions for the voluntary return of these migrants in a dignified and safe manner.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr saliba, and all the other rapporteurs for the effort and the spirit of collaboration in reaching consensus during the negotiations on this report. i think that we have all done a good job and reached agreements that send a clear message to the commission on how the digital services act should be approached. the digital services act should aim to create a safer, fairer and more transparent digital single market for all: citizens, consumers and businesses, especially our smes. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems. the european commission has set out three pillars on which to base its strategy: the digital pillar, the environmental pillar (the green deal) and the european way of life. this report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is by its nature based in the digital field. we also reflect the importance of the green deal: e-commerce must take account of the environmental impact and act accordingly, as long as its practice does not impede the competitiveness of our companies. throughout its history, our values and our way of life have set us apart from the rest of the world. he has made us an example to follow in many areas. we are neither chinese nor americans. we have a high regard for our privacy and data protection here, we don't give it to governments or companies in any way. we care about transparency, we want to know why, how and why our data is collected and who gets it. every foreign company operating here must comply with our way of doing things. in short, we have to find our own way of regulating the digital ecosystem, finding a balance that will, in the long run, undoubtedly be a competitive advantage for our smes, our citizens and the european union in general. i think it is important to take up the european way of life. without this third pillar, the report is incomplete. the amendment i am tabled on behalf of my group is in that direction, it is not against anyone; on the contrary, it is in favour of each and every european and it is intended to reflect the values that unite us. only by being true to them will we become a relevant player in the global digital race.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. thank you, madam president and madam commissioner! we have a very broad debate today on a wide range of aspects of digitalisation and artificial intelligence, and i think it is very useful. but i will give priority to the internal market and consumer protection in my time here today. my message to the commission today is quite brief: that in future legislation we must ensure that what is illegal offline remains illegal online. it is therefore also good to hear that the commissioner has already indicated that the approach of the commission with the forthcoming legislation is also very important. but we have seen a whole series of examples of dangerous baby clothes, toxic toy figures, useless face masks, etc. - things that are being sold online today that are dangerous to consumers, something we would not accept on the shelves of physical stores. it is important to do something about this, also when we have the e-commerce directive revised. we must ensure that consumer safety is paramount, also when we shop online, and that is why i am also glad that the report we have drawn up in imco puts emphasis on this. consumers should be as secure when they shop online as when they shop offline. it is also important - and we are sending a signal in the report - that companies which want to sell goods to european consumers, even if they come from outside europe - that is to say, companies - must comply with european rules. if they want to enjoy the benefits of the european market, they must comply with it, and we must make sure that this happens. and then i also think it's important to emphasize that consumer information is also a central point when people shop and act online. we need to make sure that companies inform consumers if a product is removed from their platform. so what happens offline in the mainstream market today is actually going to be something that we're going to transfer to the online businesses of the future. in this way we can ensure that consumers can be safe, and i look forward to the commission including this in future legislation.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, artificial intelligence is an opportunity to be seized as it will improve the efficiency of most human activities. it is also a great source of jobs and economic development, especially for start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises. but it is also a dangerous thing to do. it is to deal with this that the three reports voss, garcía del blanco and séjourné were drawn up. overall, these three reports have achieved their objective by requiring that artificial intelligence always remain under human control to avoid possible deviations from the most liberticidal. i particularly welcome the voss report, which has the merit of avoiding excessive centralisation by calling for damage caused by artificial intelligence to be dealt with by national civil liability schemes for fault. it is only for high-risk artificial intelligence systems that he rightly advocates a new liability regime based on the obligation on the developer to take out civil liability insurance to ensure that victims of such systems obtain compensation. however, not everything is perfect and i regret that some reports still envisage the creation of a new european agency dedicated to artificial intelligence. in my view, there are already too many agencies. i also regret that the garcía del blanco report envisages using artificial intelligence to censor hate speech and false information: these are too vague charges that will open the way to abuses of freedom of expression. they should be clarified, for example by identifying the offence of incitement to islamist terrorism. finally, as regards the wölken report on digital services, i agree with its main guidelines, in particular the idea that the legality of user-generated content should be determined by a national judicial authority and not by a private commercial entity. i also support the principle of respect for the freedom of expression of platform users, as well as the will to fight against the most intrusive forms of targeted advertising. in conclusion, i am pleased to have contributed to the preparation of these four reports and thank the rapporteurs for having taken up some of my suggestions.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the creation of new technology regulations is a race against time. innovative systems that escape standard definitions raise great hopes, but also many social fears. this is why people, their dignity and their rights must always be at the centre of the digital transformation. it cannot be treated as an uninformed, passive user or worse as a mere data source. the full potential of the digital revolution will only be realised if we properly and transparently define the opportunities and threats that come with the full automation of many areas of our lives. but no technology is reliable. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the use of ai on the environment and on the environment-related aspects of the implementation of the directive. the process of claiming and compensating compensation must be transparent and the identification of the entity responsible for the payment of compensation must not be a problem. the obligations in this respect should be distributed in a manner appropriate to the risk control capabilities of manufacturers, operators and users of systems using artificial intelligence. this is very important in creating the right insurance products, for example for autonomous vehicles. i am convinced that the report by mr voss sets out the challenges in this area and suggests appropriate legal solutions. i hope the commission will accept our recommendation.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what is at stake in the various texts we are discussing this evening? the question is, can we take back control of our digital lives? and is it possible, is it possible to invent a european model that is different from the us model, where we really notice the pursuit of profit at any cost, and that is also different from the chinese model, where we see clearly that technology is put at the service of mass surveillance to ensure that the dictatorship endures? i believe that it is possible, provided that certain basic principles are respected, to be able to set limits and to set a framework. there are at least two points on which i think we can go further. the first is facial recognition. i share the doubts expressed by many human rights organisations, who have warned against the use of video surveillance driven by artificial intelligence, which will limit the possibilities of anonymous movement in a totally disproportionate way and which constitutes an intolerable intrusion into privacy with, in addition, risks, because ai is unable to avoid identification errors based on gender, age or ethnic origin. this is a real problem and we need a european moratorium on video surveillance or, at any rate, facial recognition. the second point is consumer protection. we must ensure that intellectual property is respected, which is not the case today. platforms like amazon and alibaba are selling counterfeit products. almost two thirds of products today, according to the european consumer bureau, are illegal products. and here europe must crack down, because it is not for the platforms to determine what is and is not allowed. finally, let me say, as i speak from paris, that it is absolutely necessary that the rights of citizens, respect for dignity and respect for human rights be ensured by the platforms, if we are to escape this outpouring of digital hatred that led, two days ago in france, to the abominable murder of a teacher who was actually being prosecuted by a fatwa. it is also part of the debate on recovering our digital sovereignty and respecting the rights of european citizens.
mr president, since the savage murder of a french teacher, samuel paty, killed for doing his job, not only france is crying, but the freedom-loving hearts of every individual are bleeding. on friday, the values of our european civilization were stabbed. islamist individuals have allowed this crime by revealing the teacher's name and address on social media. a facebook account can become a lethal weapon. gafa can't look the other way and wash their hands of it. europe is the right scale to constrain gafa. i therefore ask the european commission to take three concrete measures. i propose that social accounts should collect a copy of the identity card of the account holder at the time of each account opening. i believe in the possibility of using pseudonyms on the internet, but the person must be identifiable in case of breaking the law. i propose that each social network be obliged to post on its homepage a link to an online pre-complaint, where appropriate, to create a real victim response capacity. finally, i propose a new status for social networks, because it is indecent for them to hide behind their hosting status in order to, in fact, exonerate themselves from responsibility. tomorrow, with this new status, they can be considered as accomplices in the eyes of the law in case of inertia or refusal to cooperate. the time for small candles and big speeches is over. what i am proposing is a european offensive against online hate. we won't bring samuel paty back to life, but action is no longer an option, or we'll disappear.
mr president, our debate on the texts that foreshadow the digital services act (dsa) is taking place in a very special context today, following the islamist terrorist attack in france on friday. the freedom of speech that this college professor defended led to his cruel death at the hands of obscurantists. social media has clearly played a fundamental role in this attack, as it has been a major source of hate speech. while harmful content and hate speech on the internet are not exactly our topic today, how can we not keep in mind this highly sensitive issue of what tools we have - or don't have - to defend fundamental freedoms while fighting criminals? today's texts are on the digital services act. they outline unprecedented ways to improve the current online environment and make the internet safer for its users. i would particularly note the principle that what is illegal offline must also be illegal online, but also a binding notification and action mechanism to combat illegal content online, while protecting the fundamental rights of users. the text by my colleague, alex agius saliba, aims to ensure better protection of consumers online by making online marketplaces more accountable. they will have to disclose the identity of their sellers, and cover all entities that offer services and products to consumers, including when they are established outside the union. they will have to remove products identified as illegal but also those identified as dangerous within 48 hours of notification, and inform consumers of any safety concerns. this is a first step and is necessary in view of the problems encountered, especially in the context of the current health crisis.
mr president, i am pleased that we are discussing a subject which will play such an important part in shaping the future of the world and europe: artificial intelligence. the penetration of ai systems into manufacturing, services and all sectors of the economy is an integral part of the industrial revolution 4.0 which will have fundamental and far-reaching implications. ultimately, this will not be a technological change, but a complex cyber-physical-social change. the development of artificial intelligence will have an impact on the whole of society and on every aspect of our lives. artificial intelligence is not just a robot, as we might imagine based on a game by karl hatch and science fiction, but also software simplified algorithm, which is often not entirely obvious and can cause credibility issues. it is essential that the systems used in europe enjoy a well-deserved credibility, based on respect for the principle of legality and on rules and ethical principles. today, it has certainly been said many times and it will be said again that we must strike a balance between having clear rules and not destroying the market opportunities of european companies by imposing excessive restrictions. this approach can of course be partially accepted. i also prefer that we in europe use european systems and technologies and become thought leaders in the global market. but this must never be at the expense of protecting european consumers. i believe that it is necessary that ai systems are developed, deployed and used in the european union only if they respect ethical principles relating to respect for human autonomy, prevention of harm, fairness and explainability. the fourth industrial revolution presents us with some tough challenges, but we need to tackle them as soon as possible. the fact is that every opportunity is also a potential threat, and the stakes are high indeed.
mr president, last july, the guardian reported that many catalan politicians, among them collaborators of mep carles puigdemont i casamajó, are being spied on illegally through pegasus, a software that operates through whatsapp and sells only to governments. since the confirmation that the spanish government uses pegasus to illegally spy on political opponents, there has been no judicial investigation and no one has resigned over this scandal. after all, in spain, using illegal means, including censorship of web pages, is a routine practice to prosecute catalan dissidents. what did the european commission have to say about this scandal? nothing. they feel they have the right to preach about fundamental rights all over the world: in russia, in belarus and even in the us, but when the abuse happens inside the eu, they selectively use the internal matter mantra and when it applies to spain violating laws, the commission is embarrassingly blind. the digital services act must prevent companies and governments that collude to store data illegally and must also punish member states that abuse digital technology against citizens.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the various reports we are discussing today. and the point, mr president, is this: it is about making it practical and easy for businesses to operate in europe and about creating a fair market in europe where european suppliers, as well as non-european suppliers, compete with each other in an orderly manner. the first principle is the easiest to understand. my colleague kris peeters has said it before: what is illegal - what has been politically decided to be illegal - must also be illegal on the internet. the decision of what is illegal is made by the politicians they cannot make the platform. enforcing that will be a critical issue that we want to address with the digital services act. secondly, mr president, we are of course unanimous in our rejection of the general control of users on platforms in all reports. freedom is a core principle of the european way of life, which we in the epp group have defended with particular vigour. thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, fair markets. the fight against oligopoly or monopoly is a core principle of the social market economy, which has unfortunately been somewhat distorted in the digital environment. the european parliament will have to defend this, and we are committing ourselves to it together with these reports. and that is why, mr president, i hope that the report by the committee on the internal market, like that of the other colleagues, will find a large majority tomorrow.
mr president, artificial intelligence is a buzzword. some marvel at its powers, others are terrified. the truth is that it can be used to diagnose complex cancers, to predict diabetes, and that same data can be used to discriminate against companies, for example, insurance companies. which of these two extremes will proliferate depends on our ability to find the appropriate regulation that, without stopping innovation, will give citizens the necessary confidence. this parliament has presented its contribution here today in advocating an ethical by design approach to artificial intelligence. we want to make sure that their applications are people-centric and contribute to the good of humanity. however, ethics is no longer enough and so we are also discussing other aspects of regulation today, from certification to liability to ensure that any damage from ai is mitigated and compensated for, to standards and harmonisation to have a functioning single market for digital services. in a world of superpowers using technology as an instrument of strategic power, europe cannot stand back and watch the wave of artificial intelligence pass by. parliament is here to ensure that we do what the union always does: develop cutting-edge innovation, but with respect for our core values and consumer rights.
mr president, today we are discussing, with relevance and timeliness, artificial intelligence, its impacts in the present and how we think it will impact the future of our societies. while it is true that it is relevant to discuss the ethical issues associated with the development and production of ai technologies, as well as the issues related to civil liability regimes and their need to adapt and adapt to new realities, it is also true that, although the documents contain some positive points, this discussion is made on a slanted plane, a plane inclined to the side of capital, where it is aimed, essentially, at discharging producers and manufacturers, where the ethical issues are more focused on the promotion and development of technologies related to war than on the impacts of artificial intelligence on the lives of workers. at a time when so much is said about technological development, the digital economy, artificial intelligence, industry 4.0, to impose new attacks on rights and the law of the jungle in working hours, it is more important to bring the debate about the impacts of these important scientific and technological advances on the lives of workers. artificial intelligence and robotics contribute to increasing the social productivity of human labour. increased productivity creates the conditions for real wage increases and a better life, but this potential is permanently called into question in capitalist society in the interests of defence and profit-making. it is at such moments that it is necessary to take a stand. we want to put the potential of science and technology at the service of progress and social justice or, on the contrary, at the service of exploitation and profit-making for a minority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. artificial intelligence must be an ally in reducing working hours, combating precariousness and the drudgery of work, without this implying a loss of income for workers. it must be allied to the improvement of working and living conditions. that is the debate we are bringing and that is what we are committed to.
mr president, as an irish mep representing a mainly rural constituency, i was pleased to have had the opportunity to work directly on this common agricultural policy (cap) reform. however, i am very concerned and disappointed at this last minute attempt by the centre ground to weaken the substantial reform of cap that is needed. farming families that i represent need to see a fair balance between a reward for producing food that we eat, looking after our environment and an assurance of generational renewal. therefore, major reform of cap must include substantial ring-fencing of the redistributing payment, eco-schemes, a capping of payments at eur 60 000 and the delivery of full convergence. however, elaborate parliamentary footwork over the last few hours is severely limiting our ability to ensure democratic engagement with these proposals and will make delivery of these much needed reforms much more unlikely.
mr president, commissioner, we are closing this week a chapter that began too long ago and we are doing so today in a very different context from that in which this reform was thought out, structured, presented and even negotiated. it is the vital importance of food, on which we all depend, that is driving us to one of the most important community policies, but let us not be naive: the cap is the guarantee of the sovereignty, security and food sufficiency of europeans, while also reforming production practices and methods. but the cap still plays an important role as a catalyst for progress. it strengthens the socioeconomic fabric of rural europe and the outermost regions, creating jobs, promoting growth and social inclusion, but never forgetting young farmers. it's fair to say: rural areas are among the most important contributors to improving europe's environmental performance. our role this week is to reconcile climate and environmental ambitions with sustainable production. approving a reform is not approving a break-up. we know that politics is the art of compromise and the compromise we want to approve is the best solution, or the possible solution, for the 27 member states. we are defending it not because it is perfect but because it is feasible, because our farmers depend on concrete solutions. we do not give in to demagogy or populism. we are the farmers' party and we are negotiating this cap alongside farmers and consumers. the cap is, by tradition and principle, europe's policy. the policy that ensures that europe has a present and a future, the production of the union's solidarity and prosperity.
mr president, this week we will decide the upcoming seven years in the common agricultural policy (cap) and how it will look for eu farming. this is of historic importance and we need to reform the cap. unfortunately, the text on the cap strategic plans, voted in the committee on agriculture and rural development, fell far behind the ambition of the commission’s proposal. the work of us progressives has been to change this and make sure that the goals set in the european green deal, the farm to fork, the biodiversity strategies, are compatible with the report that we now have in front of us. i’m happy for the wins – now we have a large percentage of money going to promote the transition to sustainable practices. i’m also happy that some of the fake climate environmental actions are now gone. the conditionality for farmers to receive direct payments have improved to some degree, but i have to say all this could have been stronger. the mixed results of the group consensus means that we have to do more. i urge all in this chamber to vote for the amendments which aim to secure that the cap is aligned with the paris agreement goals for the agenda 2030 and therefore gives us some hope that we can create a sustainable future, because this time we have to consider the climate, the environment, animal welfare. animals are packed together in intensive farming factories and are a threat to our health and to the climate and also, with growing risk of anti-micro-biological superbugs, a risk of transmission of disease, which can lead to new epidemics. this time, we also have to make sure that bad employers, who use their often very vulnerable workforce in an unacceptable way, are punished and not rewarded with money. this time, we have to vote to do something about the fact that european agriculture is one of the main polluters and emits enormous amounts of greenhouse gases. this needs to change and it needs to change fast.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, greetings from helsinki! finally, we shall be able to vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy, which is very much needed, because the present system and the uncertainty of the situation are too burdensome for the farmer. the compromise reached is an important step towards a more sustainable agriculture. i hope that as many of us as possible will take the responsible path and support the agreement reached, even if its content is not perfect for anyone. we can no longer move solutions, we need food security and security of supply. i am concerned that the high percentage of climate and environmental action requirements proposed will make it more difficult to produce food. i am glad that we have made the commission's absurd proposals on the safety of finland and the ban on barefoot land more reasonable. the ear-marking and other similar sanctions on cattle should now finally be abolished. the support ceiling should be voluntary for the member states. in finland, it even affects small family houses, which the eu has called on to invest in. we must not make a policy of contradiction. it is regrettable that the greens propose to reject the whole commission proposal and do not support this compromise. we all know that this kind of attention-seeking policy-making does not produce the desired results.
mr president, i must ask: why vote today on amendments that were only going to be voted on tomorrow? it is a coincidence that these will be the compromise amendments shared by the epp, renew and s&d. it seems that we are continuing this house’s tradition of business as usual, and scientists say that, if we continue business as usual, we will reach the point of no return in a decade. seventy per cent of agricultural emissions come from the livestock sector, so eu funding must not be used in any way to support concentrated animal feeding operations. more, we must also stop funding bullfighting with european money. the common agricultural policy (cap) was created to aid the production of food, not fuel animal cruelty. to end, a final reflection on the veggie burger topic. for years, this has never been an issue, but now the meat and dairy sector are so scared that they are starting to fight about food denominations. but if we care about the environment, animals and public health, we should facilitate the choice of european consumers, not the other way around.
the proposal to reform the common agricultural policy (cap) comes at a crucial time for the european union (eu). as we talk about the eu's future in terms of sustainability and ecology, it is important that the new cap is aligned with the objectives of the european green deal, the biodiversity strategy and the meadow to meadow strategy. while we must ensure that the eu has a more competitive and self-sufficient agriculture, which focuses on the balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities, the creation and maintenance of jobs, training and incentives for farmers, we must also ensure that there is a strong link with the environmental and sustainability component, and that sustainable management of natural resources and climate action is ensured. the cap can and should be an ally in the eu's green and digital transition objectives and thus be results-oriented in order to foster economic, social, environmental and climate sustainability and modernisation, in line with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the paris climate agreement. only with a holistic approach will we have more europe.
in writing. the proposal for the revision of the cap fails to address the inequalities in the distribution of aid between countries, productions and producers; the low prices for production; the low incomes of producers; the problem of land concentration, stimulated in part by the poor distribution of aid; the need to incorporate young and new farmers; the work of women farmers among other fundamental problems affecting small and medium-sized farmers and family farming, particularly in portugal. the strategic plans drawn up by the member states are subject to the approval of the european commission, which sets guidelines with broad objectives aligned with the interests of large agribusiness and distribution. we are facing the first attempt to make the member states even more responsible for the use of cap funds, when they are even more targeted and allocated according to the rules imposed by the eu, and ultimately opening the door to a renationalisation of this unacceptable common policy. what is needed are policies that ensure: food sovereignty for each state; support for small and medium-sized farmers and family farming; fair production prices and improved incomes for producers; sustainable agricultural practices that respect biodiversity and the environment; and food security and quality that is accessible to all.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to say to vice-president šefčovič that 2020 has been marked by the crisis of the century, but also by the construction of an ambitious european response: 2021 must be the time for delivery! that’s why we commend the commission work programme and your work, mr vice-president, in its preparation. but let me be clear on our priorities. the recovery plan and the mff cannot be stalled. they are crucial for the economic rebound. also, the health union has to be delivered properly. and we must speed up on the digital and green transitions. but we will deceive ourselves if we think that they have no consequences for the people. they should not go forward without a red heart in them. in that regard, we salute the commission’s compromise to present an action plan to ensure the full implementation of the european pillar of social rights, but we need more. we need to fight poverty and protect european workers. many will be vulnerable to the digital transformation. energy poverty must be addressed or it will be just worsened by the green transition. the european union has to do whatever it takes to assure that the recovery and the twin transitions are fair, effective and long lasting. that implies tax fairness across europe, flexibility on the fiscal rules to be kept for several years, and also that previous rules must change, avoiding pressure over member states to introduce austerity measures, as it happened 10 years ago with all the consequences we know. by opposite, measures providing a stabilisation function, such as the unemployment reinsurance scheme, must be really implemented. it is through solidarity that europe will prevail. solidarity amongst people, regions and member states. solidarity with migrants that need safe and legal paths. solidarity and values. fighting for real gender equality. promoting the rule of law, our values, the sdgs in europe and all over the world. this is a lot, we know, mr vice-president, but this is nothing less than our political family expects from the commission to deliver next year.
in writing. the commission work programme for 2021 contains many of the proposals that my political group called for and we therefore look forward to these proposals being put into practice. this is not a time when we can just stand by our good intentions, we need to put these ideas into action to help solve all the challenges that are before us. i particularly welcome the announcement of the presentation of a communication on the renewal of the partnership with the southern neighbourhood. this document is eagerly awaited, especially in view of the many problems and the dramatic situation facing some of the countries in the region. as president of the eu delegation to the european union, i have followed developments in these countries closely. from wars, political crises, dire humanitarian situations, tragic accidents, and so forth, these nations have been exposed to more than they can bear. it is therefore essential that this communication be a sign of the european union's willingness and readiness to strengthen its cooperation with the region and to make a concrete contribution to peace, democracy and respect for human rights for these populations, who are so close to europe but who almost always seem so far away from us.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, as a member of both the economic affairs committee and the employment committee of this parliament, i am very sad to see that the report coming out of econ continues to see austerity and pro-cyclical policies as the only possible economic policy within the european union, and continues to relegate social and climate issues to the background, as is clearly seen in paragraph 25. that is why i shall support amendment no 12. and that is why i think that the lessons of the last economic crisis have not been well learned by a section of this house and also by the european institutions. because it is not worthwhile telling the member states that they must continue to support the economies when the european commission's action programme is back with fanaticism, with the irresponsible talk of budgetary prudence. budgetary prudence is having economic growth now, is being accountable to the unemployed and to poverty. it is not worth lamenting wage inequality when member states are still pressured to maintain policies of deregulation of labour markets, which have been imposed by the european institutions for decades. it is not worth saying that we need a european health union when for decades we have been pressing member states to underfund and privatise their public health services, the public health services which are now saving the lives of millions of european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, we have made it! this is a historic victory for the european parliament. for the first time we have managed to increase the budget of the european union, which had been agreed by the heads of state and government. we have introduced the principle of financing the union's budget from new own resources without asking citizens for additional effort. and this can be a starting point for changing the structure of the financing of the european union budget. the seven-yearly discussions on the famous 1% that the member states pay and that they put into words, but never put into words the benefits of belonging to the european union and the internal market. we have ensured that the costs of the next generation eu will not be paid at the expense of european policies, cohesion policy or the cap. we have strengthened the powers of the european parliament in the recovery fund, thus ensuring greater transparency and democratic accountability. we also managed to strengthen european policies by eur 16 billion. this budget protects citizens from the pandemic, triples the budget for the health programme, strengthens the research programme, and mobilises additional resources for sectors particularly affected by the crisis: the cultural sector, humanitarian aid, or the rights and values programme, which is essential for democracy and the rule of law. it enhances the union's capacity to promote investment. it has set ambitions: climate, biodiversity, and gender equality. i would like to conclude by thanking the council for taking a safe step in difficult circumstances and the commission for putting safe alternative solutions to solve the problems on the table whenever necessary. a very special thank you to commissioner hahn and his whole team, to the european parliament's services and to the political groups in the negotiating committee, which was the unity of parliament that made this agreement possible.
mr president, the fund we are approving today and its regulations are necessary, but insufficient for the scale of the crisis we are facing. but the celebration that some political groups are having at the adoption of this regulation is serving to conceal two serious decisions for the future of europe. the first is the failure to enshrine a clause excluding fossil fuel financing, replaced by a very vague terminology which basically throws this matter to the commission, with unforeseeable consequences. the second is the introduction of a regime which does not appear in the speeches but is included in the regulation, a punitive regime for all democratically elected states and governments which do not accept to implement the political agenda, which has never been supported, of the european commission. it is a serious matter, a serious precedent, that governments and programmes which have been paid for by the voters of national democracies are subject to penalties, on the basis of a discretionary assessment of these programmes by the european commission, based on absolutely serious criteria. this is a precedent that should not have happened and that should not continue.
in writing. after months of negotiations, we have finally reached an agreement on the european union budget, the next multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2021-2027, and the european recovery package next generation eu. the sd group played a key role in these negotiations in pressing the council to adopt a budget geared to the people. this mff should ensure that people are a priority. we are living in an unprecedented crisis, triggered by an unprecedented pandemic, and therefore an effective and rapid response is urgently needed. it is essential that the interests of the different member states and regions, particularly the outermost regions, be safeguarded, given their specificities, but at the same time we must ensure a budget that is progressive, ambitious and focused on the needs of the eu citizens. i particularly welcome the increase in the budget of the eu4health health programme by 3.4 billion compared to the council's proposal of 1.7 billion. health is an investment. for every euro that is invested in public health interventions, there is a return of 14 euros. this is the investment in health that will enable us to achieve the greatest gains for the health of populations in the long term.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. other madam president, commissioner, today we are debating the 2021 budget for safer. we have known since yesterday the budget of the european union for the next seven years. the latest economic forecasts point to a fall in gdp in the euro area of over 7%. 2021 will continue to be a very uncertain year, with consequences that are not yet measurable. this week, two news items gave hope for a better and more prosperous 2021: a vaccine in the near future, after the announced successful trials; political agreement on a strengthened financial framework, beyond the july european council conclusions and beyond the current 2014-2020 framework. an agreement providing for new own resources in line with the political priorities of the european union. we must focus on reform, investment and job creation. a recovery that must protect and innovate: protect those who have been most affected by these uncertainties (women, young people, children, precarious workers); innovate in the economy. this time, we won't make the same mistakes as last time. a more unequal society is a society with less trust, more unstable, insecure and subject to radicalisms that we reject. we must bet on the future, on the new generations and ensure the climate and digital transition. europe is showing vision. financial markets recognize; citizens renew their confidence. this 2021 budget is the gateway to the european union's contribution to economic and social recovery, but it has a key challenge: the entry into force of the multiannual financial framework and consequently of the european programmes on 1 january, and for this there is still a long timetable to be met, in particular in the negotiation of the programme regulations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to fail. 2021 must be the year of revitalising the economy, restoring confidence, promoting territorial, economic and social cohesion and, at the same time, also of convergence, strengthening our competitiveness and our productivity, so that we can create jobs, create wealth and have an even stronger welfare state. we have no shortage of financial resources and they must be well used and there must be complementarity and synergies. we will have the next multiannual financial framework running in 2021, the recovery fund and also what has not yet been fully used from the current multiannual financial framework. for example, in my country, we will have about 11 billion euros from portugal 2020, we will have about 33 billion euros from portugal 2030, from the next multiannual financial framework, plus 15.4 billion euros from the recovery fund. all these resources must be managed with the aim of achieving goals. they have to be managed in a way that they have synergies. you have to look at their complementarity. it is essential that this work be done. the budget of the european union, which is an important instrument, i hope that the council will not see it as an expense but as an investment, because the normal, the usual thing is for the council to look at a budget which is small but which has enormous added value, but not to recognise an important instrument for the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road.
mr president, at a time when we are witnessing the worsening economic and social situation and the consequences of covid-19, an unprecedented response was required. the measures taken so far by the european union are far from meeting the scale of the problems and this budget is no exception. instead of the necessary increase and strengthening of its redistributive function, cuts in cohesion and agriculture persist and the absence of the promotion of effective convergence in economic and social progress among member states, opting for increases in militarism, eu-fortress consolidation and external interventionism. measures were needed which, free from the constraints and conditions of european union policies, would contribute to supporting the development strategies of the states, to promoting public investment, to supporting strategic productive sectors, to public services, to creating jobs with rights, to combating poverty and social exclusion and to combating inequalities and asymmetries in the full use of the potential of each region.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank you again for the debate we have had this morning and rest assured that the commission will continue to monitor closely the measures taken by the member states to combat covid-19. we will continue to monitor closely the application of the emergency measures in practice and their impact on the rule of law, on fundamental rights, including measures that may go beyond what is proportionate, and finally their impact on union law. in particular, we check whether the measures adopted lead to a possible non-application of national legislation transposing eu law. in its role as guardian of the treaties, the commission will not hesitate to take the necessary measures, as we have done in the past. we have expressed, also before this house, our serious concerns raised, in particular, by measures taken in hungary under the state of alert declared in march. now that a state of alert has again been introduced, we will remain vigilant and closely monitor the application of emergency powers in practice. on 30 october, the commission launched an infringement procedure related to the new asylum procedures introduced as a response to the covid19 pandemic. we are concerned that these procedures prevent effective access to the asylum procedure and infringe the fundamental right to asylum guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights. the covid-19 pandemic has compounded existing inequalities, particularly among vulnerable groups such as marginalised roma communities, and elderly people. limited access to healthcare, low income, precarious job and housing situations and lower health outcomes make too many members of these groups more vulnerable in times of pandemic. with schools closed, too many roma children living in remote areas have no access to online learning and missed school for months. this is unacceptable, as the commission responded from the very outbreak of the crisis. for example, in april, commissioners dalli, kyriakides and schmit sent a letter to the relevant ministers in each member state emphasising the need for specific measures for those groups in the context of the covid-19 crisis. in parallel, we drew member states' attention to the funds available under the coronavirus response investment initiative and the coronavirus response investment initiative plus, and initiated a dialogue on how to better address the specific needs of the most vulnerable where this is possible. furthermore, the commission recently adopted, reformed and strengthened its eu-roma strategic framework for equality, inclusion and participation, and has adopted today its first lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and/or queer (lgbtiq) equality strategy, both reflecting the new needs emerging from the covid-19 pandemic. this monitoring by the commission will continue until all emergency measures are fully lifted. and we will continue to publish our analysis of these measures in our reports on the rule of law, as well as in the report on the charter of fundamental rights, as i announced earlier, following the strategy to be adopted this year, again. we will continue to issue recommendations or guidelines where necessary and continue our work on sharing best practices, as we have done, in particular with ministers of justice, on addressing domestic violence, which is on the rise during the pandemic. i would like to reiterate, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate is welcome because it is important to maintain a democratic debate on our response to the challenges posed by the covid-19 crisis, particularly with regard to respecting our common values. control by national parliaments is very important and, as you know, the functioning of national parliaments is not easy to organise during the pandemic, you also realise this when it comes to ensuring the smooth functioning of your assembly. in these difficult times, the common commitment of all the union institutions to respecting the fundamental values throughout the european union is essential. i would like to thank you again for your commitment to this.
in writing. the fundamental rights and freedoms of people must also be respected during the covid-19 health crisis. fighting the virus cannot be an excuse to limit people's democratic freedoms. all measures taken to protect public health must be targeted and proportionate. the implementation of disproportionate measures can have devastating consequences for people's mental health. such measures may also threaten democracy and the rule of law. the measures we take must not harm our people more than the virus.
in writing. with the outbreak of covid-19, member states were obliged to take measures, taking into account the reduction of contagion. some measures may be questionable in their effectiveness in terms of health and, unfortunately, may have a negative impact on the lives of the population, restricting their rights, freedoms and guarantees. the use of the state of emergency is one example. we believe that the measures taken must be appropriate to the actual needs and challenges of the situation. in this sense, we need measures to encourage individual protection, to promote a protectionist pedagogy and to ensure safe health conditions so that life can continue in its many dimensions. the response capacity of public health services, the safety of schools, homes, public transport, cultural and sport facilities and equipment needs to be strengthened. the way forward cannot be to suspend, prohibit or prevent activities or events, or to restrict the exercise of rights, freedoms and guarantees.
the european parliament has asked for it and today this parliament is giving the answer. 2020 is a historic year, with a pandemic like no other and that exposed the fragility of every country's health system in this world! in the european union, healthcare is the responsibility of each member state, which may have resulted in an initial weakness in the response to this pandemic. the commission has responded by presenting the most ambitious plan ever for european health, but this parliament goes further. we will adopt a programme which will focus on two key points, so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past and to ensure a sustainable future. a programme focused on health in all policies and one health. a programme addressing the main health challenges in the field of communicable and non-communicable diseases. that empowers the union's health response and is aimed at reducing health inequalities, ensuring universal access to healthcare and having a focused approach to health promotion and the different aspects of disease prevention. with improved health literacy for all, leaving no one behind. and also, because this is the year of the pandemic, we've learned the lessons. because the health of our union cannot be at 27 speeds, there is an urgent need for greater harmonisation and coordination in response to health crises and to this end we call for the creation of a european mechanism for responding to threats to public health. we can't wait for another pandemic. we need to stress test, in a controlled way, the most diverse health systems in this union, to identify the gaps and opportunities with minimum parameters for the health care provided by each of the 27. scientific evidence tells us that for every euro that is invested in public health interventions, the return, in the long run, is 14 times more. with the conclusion of the negotiations, the budget for this programme was thus tripled to eur 5.1 billion. now it's time to multiply it by 14.
mr president, commissioner, the imminence of having a vaccine available presents great challenges for all of us. from the perspective of an early resolution of this pandemic, there is hesitation to vaccinate. the important thing here is to be realistic and realize that it's very unlikely that everything will go back to the way it was, despite the importance of a safe and effective vaccine. the union has done well and the added value of joint purchases is undeniable today. ensure that we are at the forefront of ensuring equal access to a vaccine for european citizens. but for that, and despite the positive news of the last few days, there is still a long way to go. and it's essential that there is complete transparency throughout this process. only then can we ensure the confidence of the citizens in this mass immunization which is intended to be rapid. it is important to know where the pharmacovigilance studies by the european medicines agency and the european centre for disease control and prevention are coming from. will this process affect the availability of the vaccine within the european union? what actions are envisaged to detect any adverse effects not expected in the short, medium and long term, for which a suspension of vaccine distribution is necessary? we have a duty to inform and european citizens have a right to be informed. let us aim at this premise.
madam president, i would first like to thank paul and siegfried for this report which has given us the opportunity to have this debate here in the house. we all know: there is no trade-off between sustainable recovery and economic progress. we need to transform the economy. mitigating the effects of climate change. the cost of inaction will surely be much higher for europe and the world. we need sustainable investment... but for that, we have to give the public and private sectors the conditions. the pandemic is having a brutal impact on public finances. gross domestic product has fallen to historic lows. deficits exceeding 10% and in some member states far from falling below 3% in the short term. government debt is approaching 200%. the union must reform its budgetary rules. the public debt rule. to look for solutions to encourage sustainable investment. the effects of the pandemic on public debt are not a problem of one country or of europe. it is becoming -- it would hardly be different -- a global problem. so i challenge all leaders here today to have a broad debate, in the relevant international institutions and with the appropriate actors, on how to deal with high levels of public debt and how to create conditions to promote sustainable investment. and i invite the european commission to launch this initiative.
the european green deal is one of the main political priorities for the european union. as a member of the european parliament, i would like to stress the key role of this institution, the only directly elected body at european level, in the fight against climate change and the transition to a sustainable economy. this report reflects that commitment and aims to ensure coherence between european discourse and action. the recovery and resilience mechanism is required to go hand in hand with the ambition expressed in the european climate law, contributing in accordance with the 'no significant harm' principle. in this connection, it is important to increase the capacity of public authorities to intervene, in particular by establishing new own resources, including green taxes, but also by combating tax evasion, which is so restrictive of national budgets. at the same time, in order to achieve our objectives, it is recognised that more private investment in line with sustainability criteria needs to be mobilised. in view of the requirements of the covid-19 crisis, but also of the variable impact of climate change, it is important to ensure a balance between the ecological and social dimensions. we must create jobs and opportunities for all citizens.
madam president, commissioner, the time is long gone when we thought that the internet would make the market transparent by eliminating information asymmetries. we know that the opposite has happened, the market power of the big platforms is enormous and grows every minute by virtue of the network effect. it's kind of like going to the market. when you walk into an online store, the salespeople know you better than you know yourself, and they can exploit your weaknesses and vulnerabilities. if you're looking for shoes, they'll recommend a gym, a personal trainer, and maybe even a diet program. so we need to "dress up" to regain some power and privacy. consumer data should not be used for purposes other than those for which they were provided, nor should data be collected that are not essential to provide the service sought. the digital transition has not only changed the way we buy and sell. it has also transformed products, which are now confused with services, by becoming intelligent and dynamic throughout their life cycle. from the automobile, which drives itself, to a simple cooking machine, which i order the king cake for christmas instead of going to the bakery, as was usual. we need to prevent these digital products from becoming obsolete faster and, above all, to ensure that the speed of market entry of new products, whether european or imported, and their successive updates are not done by trampling our security. the review of the general product safety directive should therefore take account of the conclusions of the imco report to be presented today and in particular consider the precautionary principle with regard to innovative products with a higher risk, making the burden of proof that they are not dangerous, rather than the other way around. the slowest innovation, in some cases, may be the one that deserves the most trust and the one that endures without retrogression. or the use of blockchain to ensure better traceability of products, or artificial intelligence to strengthen the capacity of regulatory authorities. commissioner, the new agenda, in these and other areas, should serve to give consumers the same weapons as platforms and other service providers. in short, the new agenda must be a kind of software update of the current legislation, to make it bug-free, to make it smart and suitable for effective consumer protection, in an economy that we want to be sustainable and that we know will be increasingly digital!
we believe, madam president, that the financial and human resources of the national supervisory authorities must be strengthened, their powers and cooperation between entities increased, in particular by developing joint actions at cross-border and online level. we also advocate the need to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of controls to ensure the safety of products traded traditionally and online, as proactive measures to combat misleading practices and disinformation, protecting consumers. we are not, however, following proposals for minimum legislative harmonisation, based on the logic of the market and profit, superimposing european union legislation on national legislation that is more advanced in terms of consumer protection. but our contribution to this debate also involves drawing attention to the need to combat planned obsolescence. in this context, there is a fundamental, incomprehensible and intolerable problem, which has to do with the fact that large economic groups continue to introduce features in products which deliberately cause a shorter shelf life, either by integrating parts, preventing their replacement, or even by using programming specifically designed to reduce the responsiveness of the appliances after a certain time. this use of planned obsolescence requires an appropriate response, with its immediate prohibition and the promotion of a culture of repair and reuse. we will thus be contributing to more sustainable and socially fair policies.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report. information to investor clients is no longer information, it's no longer transparency; it's unnecessary red tape and therefore it's time to cut it. it's not very clear where the capital markets will work better, giving less information to clients and researchers, but that's what's been approved. it is not only proposed in this report, but also in a report which very discreetly dealt with the prospects. we are also going backwards in the organization of the financial system itself. we know that derivatives were a product that was at the heart of the last financial crisis. we know that securitisation was also one of the key elements in the instability that gave rise to the last financial crisis. we know that, with regard to agricultural goods and energy goods, we have already had several demonstrations of the very strong correlation between these markets, including in the crises mentioned above. there has been no impact study on this because a quick consultation with some representatives of the financial industry is not an impact assessment. it is only the european institutions, the commission and the european parliament, which act as the direct representatives of the lobbies of the financial system, in the worst tradition of public intervention in the regulation of the financial system. there's a reason why we're having all these quick fixes now, in a hurry, in the midst of the covid crisis, and that reason has nothing to do with economic recovery, has nothing to do with getting capital to small and medium-sized businesses, which is the usual conversation whenever these proposals come on the table. it's about two very simple issues: using the economic crisis to push this agenda of deregulation of the financial system against everything we've learned from the last financial crisis, and two, taking advantage of people being distracted by more serious events and more media events to push a deeply irresponsible agenda that people refuse and would refuse to be informed of. this parliament will be responsible for the consequences of these quick fixes which will very quickly further damage the regulation of the financial system in europe and the world.
madam president, madam commissioner, i also extend a special greeting to you on this first plenary meeting and my sincere wishes for good work and success in your duties. as our coordinator, mr fernández, has already said, my group has spared no effort and no availability to solve concrete problems of financing the economy, of providing better capital conditions so that banks can continue to support the economy, of making more resources from european funds available to member states so that the economy and employment can be defended and the pandemic can be tackled from the outset. we have therefore taken part in all the urgent reforms that made sense and we will also support this initiative, but because it was possible at this stage to moderate the intentions of the rapporteur, markus ferber, who wanted to take the opportunity to move towards deregulation under the pretext of urgent changes in the context of the financial crisis, and we are not going to do that. we expect a structural change to the financial markets directive proposed by the european commission, with an impact assessment properly done, presented and the responsibility of the european commission, and that is what we are lacking and that is what we have lacked in this process. we cannot use the crisis as a pretext for everything, and we cannot make deregulatory changes as a pretext for responding to the crisis. we will not accept that and that is why we are here to continue working, to find the best conditions for financing the european economy, for defending employment and promoting the employment of europeans, but not everything is worth it. it is certainly not the case to use the crisis as a pretext for advancing structural reforms or reversing the correct reforms made in the past to protect european consumers and investors.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the positive trends highlighted in the report, such as the highest attendance in 20 years, the high participation of young people and the increase in the participation of women in the institutions and bodies of the european union, should be welcomed. we should be talking about european electoral law, but at the right time. i am convinced that many of the solutions used in my country, such as the five percent voting threshold, the quota system on the electoral rolls, and the support for the disabled, can be an inspiration for such a debate. however, i am firmly opposed to the creation of transnational lists and to giving voters a second vote for such a list, because this is contrary to the principle of equality of elections, and to the creation of a system of leading candidates, the so-called spitzenkandidaten, because it infringes the powers of the council, as defined in article 15, to freely elect the president of the commission. both of these proposals are attempts to limit the role of nation states and were not agreed upon during the last attempt to reform electoral law.
mr president, we are debating today a report which contains a great many positions which do not make europe stronger, but are against it and dangerous. i am referring to the report drawn up by mr durand on the analysis of the european elections. as many good colleagues have already pointed out, i am very critical of the so-called pan-european electoral lists. such lists would obviously be too much for smaller member states, since candidates from these member states would not have the opportunity to compete on an equal footing with candidates from larger member states. in my view, the turnout in european elections is very directly linked to the ability of voters to choose to represent themselves in their home country by people they know, know and value. if voters are denied this opportunity, the european union will become even more distant and alienated from its citizens. i am absolutely convinced that playing around with an idea such as pan-european electoral lists is irresponsible and dangerous. i very much hope that, for the sake of a better future for the european union, we will put this debate to rest and concentrate on the real issues. and finally, i would like to express my opposition to the idea of introducing a single electoral year. i understand that the aim is to involve young people, but this initiative must come from the member states and be in line with national electoral law. there must be one electoral system, whether we elect a local council, a national parliament or the european parliament. the european union should stop putting pressure on the member states.
mr president, i should like to say at the outset that i fully share all the proposals made by our colleague mr durand, who, as always, makes excellent reports. i agree with him, of course, particularly on the issue of gender balance. i also share his views on the proper organisation of the electoral process and his views on transnational lists, with a single constituency for the whole of the european union. i feel a little out of place, however, when he talks about the need to encourage more people to vote. let me tell you why. i come from a country where this incentive is by compulsory voting. in my country, as in two or three other countries of the european union, we are obliged to go to the polls. i am a national of a member state where this is not a problem. the compulsory vote is widely accepted. the compulsory vote, even if you do not want to go to the polls, gives you the opportunity to vote by mail. the highest authorities in my country accept postal voting, they do not see this way of voting as a source of electoral fraud, as is the case in some large countries of the western sphere. i would also like to say that there are many ways of looking at, seeing or dreaming about civil rights. i'll oppose civil rights, the formula of civic duty. i think it is not too much to ask our citizens to go to the polls once every five years to vote for what is essential for our future.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you again for a very important and timely report and also for a very interesting debate. well, we are speaking here today about reflections on the 2019 elections. let me say what i didn’t say at the beginning and maybe also the reflections from the commission’s side – how we were preparing for the elections. after the lessons we learned from the 2016 american elections, from the brexit campaign and from some other elections, we knew that to organise the elections, to be fair and free, and free from manipulation, and free from different new kinds of threat, it wouldn’t be business as usual. we focused in the preparation on three new emerging threats. the first was abuse of private data in political campaigns. after the cambridge analytica case it was clear that we had to react. so we mobilised the data protection authorities in the member states to pay special attention to the possible cases of abuse of private data and micro-targeting in political campaigning. the second threat was disinformation. we mobilised colleagues dealing with disinformation on a national level. we created the rapid alert system to address or to stop a coordinated strong attack from outside europe – and just to mention that we did not trigger the rapid alert system, but we were prepared for that. and the third threat was the possible endangering of the elections by cyber-attacks. so we again asked the member states to strengthen their infrastructure to be able to protect the elections against that. to manage all these new threats and to be well prepared, we established the national elections system and network. we had all the member states, represented by the people who organised the elections, it proved to be very useful. the network is still working and it will work further in the future, because all the measures we took for the european elections proved to be extremely useful for organising national elections. so we are working together with the member states. well, the reflections on the elections with regard to the results, are, as far as i see it, quite positive. we saw that especially young people showed us that they are interested in the future of europe – that europe matters. this is very good news. and i think that in everything we are doing we should continue to support this trend. we have to invite young people to the elections. i cannot help it, we have to do something which i sometimes call ‘to digitalise democracy’, because young people are not interested in using the old-fashioned methods. so maybe we should consider the possibility to introduce more digital innovations in the methods and in the way we elect in europe. and we have to start discussions as soon as possible under the conference on the future of europe, which was mentioned here many times – katarina barley said that it should be mainly an exercise that involves listening. we should listen to what people see as good solutions for the future of europe. now we know that the people care and that we have to open a very wide discussion with the citizens, not only remain in the bubble where we are normally used to discussing these things. so, the conference should start as soon as possible when covid enables us to move. we can do a lot of things through digital instruments but not everything is possible. last comment: if we want to change something in the electoral system for 2024, needless to say here that the initiative is on the european parliament, not the commission. i have counted the days and months before the elections and well, if we want to introduce changes, we will have to see the initiatives on the table next year. so i can only repeat from this place that i am ready to cooperate, the commission is going to play the role of the honest broker in this process, and i’m very much looking forward to the next debates on this and also the real steps we are going to take.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 24 november 2020. the final vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 25 november 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the instruments used by the european union to deepen federalism have no limits. an example of this is this debate: under the guise of greater democratization, greater transparency, greater connection between elected and voters, the result is more an exercise in attacking democracy than in defending it. by advocating the creation of common lists at european level with common headings, the facilitation of the participation of european political parties in electoral campaigns, or the compulsory appearance of the logos of these parties on the ballot papers together with those of the national parties, by calling into question their independence and trying to impose ways of functioning on them, what is being done is to try to transfer competences and sovereignty from the member states to the supranational level. it is assumed that they are seeking to deepen the federalist character of the eu, but that this has nothing to do with the reality of the member states and is contrary to the need for a europe of cooperation between sovereign and equal states. it is assumed that by unifying political representation at the service of the eu and the economic powers that underpin it, rather than bringing it closer together, it is further distancing voters and elected representatives, disregarding the sovereignty and specificities of each member state.
mr president, trade policy has exposed its limitations in this pandemic crisis. it must be progressive and have a forward-looking capacity to respond to uncertainty and the future. it should enable the european union to act in a sustainable and resilient manner. the union's political priorities, such as the green deal or the positions on trade and sustainable development, the protection of social rights or the promotion of gender equality, need to be reflected in trade policy and, consequently, in trade agreements. smes are the building blocks of european economies and trade agreements must take this reality into account, but we cannot be satisfied with intentions. we must provide mechanisms to facilitate and ensure its implementation. finally, we hope that the opportunity has come to resume the transatlantic dialogue and to deepen trade relations with the united states. finally, i would like to congratulate bernd lange on this initiative. it is a good time to influence the ambition of the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. elyas dayee, virgilio maganes and israel rangel are the latest victims recorded in the long list of the unesco observatory on journalists murdered, which tells us that in the last decade alone, close to a thousand journalists have been killed in the line of duty. in addition to these, many others have been the victims of threats, intimidation, smear campaigns, arbitrary detention and torture. the council of europe platform for the protection of journalism and the safety of journalists in 2020 has already issued more than 180 alerts in 31 countries. if these numbers are high, the impunity is even higher. only one in 10 perpetrators of this type of crime is brought to justice. these data leave us with a clear message: freedom of the press requires constant construction and surveillance in the protection of those who fight for it and in the punishment of those who seek to destroy it. the declarations of repudiation and the constant assertion of the defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights are important, but they are not enough for those who are desperate for justice. it is our duty, within the european union, but also in dialogue and cooperation with third countries and in the multilateral framework, to combat impunity and to build tools that help protect the right of journalists to speak freely in the face of various powers, to investigate abuses, to contribute to public debate, to exercise their profession freely and to protect the right of citizens to have access to reliable information. the initiatives and mechanisms to support, monitor and protect press freedom need to be extended and deepened.
madam president, in this european council it is already too late to approve the multiannual financial framework. we have made a political agreement with the council. we expect the council to honour its commitment. we need a multiannual financial framework by 1 january 2021. we all know what it means to enter into a twelfth mechanism. we don't want that. the situation in january 2021 is not the same as we had in january 2020. the crisis changed everything. the mff and the recovery fund are the answer. the european union cannot frustrate the citizens, but that is what the council is doing. we cannot give in to blackmail. all member states are expected to respect the principles to which they have committed themselves. the rule of law is one of them and the mechanism we have now agreed politically with the council concerns 27 and not two or three. it simply ensures that european money is used properly in a transparent and democratic way. that is why we cannot see which countries can reject this mechanism. minister, it is not, but i have to mention, commissioner, yes, we need to find a way out of this crisis. this exit cannot be at the expense of the union's values and, above all, must be within the community framework. the european parliament does not renounce its capacity as budgetary authority, but neither does it renounce what we have jointly built up in the negotiation process of this mff.
the european council next month will discuss topics of importance to the eu, such as the covid-19 pandemic and the fight against climate change. it is essential that this council is assertive in its decisions and in its responses to citizens. in the case of covid-19, it is essential that there is a robust response, through strengthened pandemic coordination, but above all a decision on economic responses and financial mechanisms for european citizens, both by the 21-27 multiannual financial framework and the next generation eu recovery plan. there is an urgent need for a compromise between the european council and the european citizens. in this regard, it is important to safeguard the interest of the parties, in particular the most vulnerable regions, such as the outermost regions, which, more than ever, need to revive their economy, safeguard jobs and support key and strategic sectors that have been severely affected by the pandemic. decisive action on climate change must be a reality and the commitment to the ecological transition must leave no one behind. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
the european council on 10 and 11 december will be crucial in defining the political, economic and strategic horizon of the european union. we are facing not only a pandemic at the moment, with human, social and economic costs that we do not yet fully understand, but also an institutional blockade that prevents us from acting in a timely and appropriate manner. the recovery package, which includes resources that are critical to our recovery and to triggering an inclusive green and digital transition, continues to face resistance from two governments, hungary and poland. it is regrettable to see that their undemocratic approach persists, and that they are prepared to protect it at any cost, to the detriment of all european citizens, including those in their own countries. i support the determination of the political leaders who are fighting to honour the agreement reached in july and to ensure that this process is completed by the end of 2020.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 marks the most serious year of this pandemic crisis in the last 100 years, but it will also mark the year in which this union responds to health issues and makes great strides towards creating a true european union for health. while this is a good starting point for this strategy, i share some important considerations about two priorities. the first is antimicrobial resistance. it's time we took on the urgency of this crisis and acted accordingly. the european union must be a global leader in this battle and the answer lies in the one-health approach. i congratulate the commission on the proposals it has put forward, but i would like to see the creation of a special status for antimicrobials, which will prove essential to protect these important but scarce therapeutic weapons. speaking of shortages, the second point i would like to address is the shortage of medicines. a scourge that is plaguing the whole of the european union and, in order to achieve accessibility to effective and innovative medicines, special attention must be paid to the whole chain and ensure and strengthen equitable access to the most remote regions of the european union, which are the case of the outermost regions.
madam president, commissioner hahn, the 2021 budget opens up a new cycle for cohesion policies, more environmentally friendly, as it is intended, but it also represents a new cycle for european programmes. the results of the negotiation of mff 21-27, many of the demands of my s&d political family, are already reflected in the 2021 budget. with the crisis we are seeing a devastated cultural sector. that's why we increased funding for the creative europe programme. the crisis has led to the weakening of democracies in some member states. that's why he increased funding for the rights and values program. but also the transport sector, life, justice, digital europe, humanitarian aid or ndici, key sectors for economic and social recovery, but also for the european union to engage in the global context, in a multipolar world, contributing to the climate objectives or to the exploitation of the geostrategic capacity of the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a very good one. it is a very good one, and i think that the commission should be aware of it. these are companies that struggle daily against the crushing weight of the large economic groups and against the unequal and unfair competition of multinational companies which contribute to social dumping, deregulation of labour relations and insolvency. a strategy that serves the interests of these enterprises will have to take account, among other things, of reinforced emergency support from the european union to bridge existing inequalities, of intervention and support by the states on the assumption of the maintenance of jobs, the defence of wages and respect for workers' rights, the creation or strengthening of public bodies dedicated to the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and the importance of public banking in supporting the promotion and development of their activities. these are some of the proposals we will continue to fight for.
mr president, commissioner, the report makes several references to the need to reduce the administrative burden on smes. simplifying is not deregulation, it is not unprotecting workers, consumers or the environment, simplifying is making the law easier to understand and to comply with and therefore even empowering it to be violated less often. today, the proper use of digital technologies is helping to make this happen by increasing rigor and transparency, from licensing processes to relations with social security, and there are good examples in all member states. however, commissioner, the best example is from above, from the european union, which has so often proclaimed that better legislation is needed. in portugal, commissioner, we have a saying: do not look at what i say, look at what i do. so let's start by making access to the funds of the next multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund much easier for smes, for startups, for companies with social impact, who, i have heard so many times, say that the cost of competing does not outweigh the benefit.
author. mr president, the water directive is, to date, the main instrument of the european union's water policy, establishing a community governance framework for integrated water management, slowing down the deterioration of water quality and reducing chemical pollution. currently, less than half of the eu's water bodies are classified as 'good' and only one of the 4 freshwater indicators has shown progress over the last 10-15 years. the european parliament therefore considers that the implementation of this directive must be improved and accelerated. there have been and are a number of constraints in the implementation of water legislation due to inadequate funding and insufficient integration of environmental objectives into the different sectoral policies. in this context, it is essential to focus on the application of water legislation by the different member states. we have not achieved the targets we set for 2015, and we must work together, in a hurry, to achieve the targets by 2027, which are: the protection of all forms of surface and groundwater, inland and transitional water, the restoration of existing ecosystems in and around water bodies, the reduction of pollution of water bodies and the guarantee of sustainable water use for all. the adequacy check of water legislation has revealed considerable differences in implementation between member states, in particular with regard to the pollutants controlled and the limits set out in the groundwater directive. how does the commission intend to achieve a more harmonious application? the integration of the objectives of the directive needs to be improved across the different sectors, in particular in agriculture, energy and transport, and these need to be aligned with the strategies of biodiversity, circular economy, zero pollution and the common agricultural policy. what additional measures will the commission develop for the protection of water in the agricultural sector? turning now to chemical pollution, how does the commission intend to tackle the problems of chemicals and pollutants which are raising new concerns, such as pharmaceuticals and microplastics? how will these substances be regulated? the next multiannual financial framework should allocate resources for water conservation. it is necessary to promote ambitious actions and projects that contribute to the objectives of the directive that have not yet been achieved. what measures will be taken in this context? we need to hold accountable those who cause environmental damage, thereby encouraging non-pollution, changing social behaviour and a greater awareness of the importance of this scarce resource. when will the user-payer and polluter-payer principles be fully applied? exemptions from the directive have been used repeatedly and unjustifiably. more data, transparency and information on water management, supported by coordinated work between local, regional, national and european authorities, will contribute to greater and better watershed management. how does the commission intend to reduce the use of exemptions from the water directive in the 3rd cycle of river basin management plans? it is therefore urgent to find effective and immediate responses to the challenges facing the water sector, taking into account its direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture, food security, among many others. specific funds and programmes are needed to enable the objectives of this directive to be operationalized. finally, it is essential to raise awareness of the importance of this resource, because there is no doubt that if no action is taken, we will not achieve the objectives proposed for 2027. i would remind you that the mismanagement of this scarce resource will have serious long-term consequences for all of us and for our environment.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next two years of transition between the present and the future common agricultural policy will be decisive in preparing the sector for what will be a common agricultural policy with more ambitious targets, with more ambitious environmental targets. in this regulation we are voting on today it is right to point out what important measures we have been able to achieve, for example those relating to the wine sector and the olive oil sector. but we must also tell you that others have been that could not be reached. i am referring in particular to internal convergence and external convergence, which, although they were interrupted during the transition, i consider to be of fundamental importance for european farmers. i would also like to highlight the agreement on the recovery fund introduced in this regulation. this more targeted support for investments that enhance the resilience of the sector is crucial to make it more robust and better prepared for the green transition that will be required of it. and as regards posei, the agreement reached was nevertheless positive. i can certainly say that i expected more solidarity from the council and the commission towards these fellow europeans who, in the outermost regions of our union, suffer from extraordinary constraints. it is a matter on which i ask for maximum commitment during the negotiations on the reform of the cap and which i will of course continue to follow. in conclusion, we are pleased that we have ensured that this regulation has not become a pre-emptive reform of the common agricultural policy, but a system of continuity with the necessary adjustments. farmers now know what they can expect over the next two years and will be able to keep their european funding without any cuts in payments. i would therefore like to congratulate all my colleagues and, of course, our rapporteur on the good work that has been done on behalf of european agriculture.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, in the name of constanze krehl, our rapporteur from the s&d group, i address this plenary saying that 2020 was a year of drama and dramatic changes in europe. we’ve suffered the drama of losing hundreds of thousands of europeans. we mourn their loss and we extend our solidarity to their families. but there were dramatic changes in the way we relate to each other, the way we work, the way we do business – all of this had to change this year. and a lot has also changed in politics and policy. many of those who opposed further european integration started clamouring for more european common policies. many of those who did not like cohesion policy started asking for the reinforcement of cohesion policy. fortunately, the european institutions were able to understand what was needed and what was expected from us. after some initial hesitation by some institutions, we put in place an extensive series of measures which protected the health of citizens, sustained the economies as much as possible, and protected employment and citizens’ wellbeing. within the multiple policy measures that were put in place to cope with the crisis it is important to underline that the first effective consequences on the ground were in cohesion policy. the corona response investment initiatives, best known as crii and crii+ (coronavirus response investment initiative plus), were launched in april and had immediate effects, frontloading eur 37 billion of unallocated resources within the current mff. the flexibility that crii and crii+ brought to the european funds allowed for essential investments at the initial stage of the pandemic, such as on medical equipment, including ventilators and personal protective equipment, the support to smes, to job maintenance and to the vulnerable groups. cohesion policy was at the forefront of the response to the crisis and once again it delivered. and let me stress this: one of the key characteristics of cohesion policy is that it indeed delivers. it delivers concrete results and european citizens deserve and are eager for those results. that is why the mmf agreement was also so important, and that is why the blackmail by two member states was totally unacceptable, and in the end it didn’t pay. we overcame that blackmail and europe can now go forward on a path where we can see hope, where we can see the vaccine is coming, the beginning of an end to the pandemic, the economic recovery, the creation of jobs, and finally a better europe, a greener and fairer europe. the new mff and the new cohesion policy are crucial for the recovery, but react-eu is the first instrument that is now ready, bridging the gap between the first emergency crisis response and the long-term recovery package. for every act the eu approved in time the negotiation teams worked hard and fast to reach an agreement, and as a result we can already vote now on react-eu. with this initiative the european union is offering a strong reaction to the consequences of covid, which is what people in regions are expecting from us. but the negotiation teams have also worked well and we should support strongly the content of the agreement, an agreement where important parliament demands were incorporated, bringing more flexibility and more fairness to react-eu. the eur 47.5 billion from the react-eu programme will allow for investment in the areas where member states have higher needs, be it on health, on smes, on supporting the most deprived, the self-employed or the freelancers. parliament managed to secure a higher pre-financing and guaranteed that the commission quickly checks and approves the programmes so that the money can reach the real economy as fast as possible. parliament has also insisted on having projects funded retroactively from 1 february onwards, enabling regions all over europe to fund their reactions to covid which they started in spring or summer. it was also important for parliament to have a stronger focus on border regions, which was made through a link with the interreg programme, because border regions and their populations were particularly affected when the borders were temporarily closed. finally, i want to underline the importance of the strong ties parliament was able to introduce with the european social fund, the fund for european aid to the most deprived and the youth employment initiative, strengthening the social dimension of react—eu, a fight in which the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) and the committee on regional development (regi) were side by side. the social impact of the crisis must be a priority and the european union has to do everything to make sure the response to the crisis leaves no one behind. the european union is a political project aiming at economic and social convergence. we must always keep this in mind or european citizens will be alienated from the future of the union. initiatives like react-eu, policies like cohesion policy that deliver concrete results, that touch, protect and improve people’s lives, are the ones that do the most to strengthen the sense of belief in the future of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner elisa ferreira, i wanted to make clear in this context a very important and very particular situation of react-eu. it is additional support, we know that, but it has, in addition to simplified access, financing for investments in various areas, as we know, health, education, training, employment, smes and, without ever forgetting, cross-border territories, and it has, in this simplified procedure, 100% financing. these two reasons alone would suffice to make us fully satisfied. but there are others, equally important, and i would like to draw attention to the fact that, from my own experience, i know very well how much in my country and certainly in many other countries, it is the local authorities very close to the people who feel these real needs. they are the ones who can act quickly, effectively and in a much more appropriate way. i therefore hope that these investment opportunities will be implemented as quickly as possible, particularly in the less developed regions, in the outermost regions, so that this dual objective of the ecological and digital transition to which the union has committed itself can be achieved. europe has indeed done its part and i congratulate commissioner elisa ferreira. it is now time for the member states to act and i hope and sincerely hope that with this react-eu we can also take the significant step in each of the member states and particularly in the most disadvantaged regions.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in northern mozambique is already causing more than half a million displaced people and more than two thousand deaths, and we the european union are continuing to try to help through the humanitarian, development and peace-building axis, placing human rights at the heart of our response. to add insult to injury, cabo delgado, one of the poorest provinces in mozambique, with a tremendously fragile social structure, was devastated by cyclone kenneth in 2019. that has only aggravated a situation which is now being complicated by the spread of terrorism coming from the north, from somalia. we have specialised teams working on the situation in mozambique; we have permanent contacts with the government and with international institutions - the united nations, the african union and the united states. we have allocated 100 million through a resilience programme signed with the government to respond to the socioeconomic consequences of covid-19, and, of course, we are willing to study the possibility of contributing more resources. but this year we have already contributed 37 million in humanitarian aid, primarily to cabo delgado. we are strengthening cooperation with all the countries in the region, combating the impact of human trafficking, which unfortunately will increase with this situation, and helping to implement the maputo peace agreement between the government of mozambique and renamo. but the prospects are not positive, ladies and gentlemen: the situation in mozambique is deteriorating under the cover and heat of natural disasters and a country with very serious difficulties in governing. in fact, it is the whole horn of africa facade towards the indian ocean that is being the scene of an expansion of conflicts and the spread of terrorist forces. we're very concerned about the situation. there does not seem to be any improvement in the area of somalia to the south; the recent tensions between somalia and kenya are not going to help either. but within mozambique we must surely take stronger measures. i have asked the portuguese foreign minister - the country which will shortly take over the presidency - to go to the region as my personal envoy, as i cannot go for reasons of agenda. and i have asked him, as a colleague in the council, to pay particular attention during his presidency to what is happening in that country - which, moreover, portugal knows very well. i can tell you this, i can't give you much of a positive element. just be assured that we are mobilizing all the resources we have to act in mozambique.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr. high representative, your statement here is the proven proof of what we already knew. the european union's external action service is not up to the humanitarian crisis in mozambique. your excellency doesn't have time to go to mozambique, your excellency is not able to see what resources have been given to the cape delgado region, you keep talking about hurricanes, you keep talking about the peace process, this is what i heard the foreign service bring here on july 6th, i knew nothing about cape delgado. the crisis in cabo delgado is a stand-alone crisis, totally different, with other characteristics, where women are being raped, where young people are being recruited into radical islamic terrorism, where people are being driven out of villages, where there are over half a million refugees in the coastal towns and cities, where the sanitation crisis is brutal. i've never heard of a health care plan. no logistics teams? are there no medical teams from the european union going to cabo delgado at this time? with the malaria? the cholera? the covid? there's no accommodation to take to this region? mr high representative, the european union is failing and the responsibility is primarily yours. i am sure that the portuguese presidency will play its part, but the european union cannot vote mozambique out of office as it has done since you took office and i am aware that this crisis has been going on for more than three years.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr high representative, i thank you for being present at this debate and for making a commitment that the european union will be part of the political and humanitarian solution to the conflict in cabo delgado. i also welcome the appointment of the portuguese minister for foreign affairs as special envoy. the indifference of the international community to the situation has produced a deafening, chilling, incomprehensible silence. the european parliament has been at the forefront of the international community of institutions and the mozambican government in denouncing the situation and calling for action. these warnings helped to wake up the international community and strengthen the mozambican government's commitment to a solution. the un and the european union have stepped up their aid and cooperation programmes. a possible intervention by the united nations on the ground was considered. the community of southern african states has also scheduled a summit. portugal, which will take over the european presidency from 1 january next, has decided to support the training of mozambican military personnel and the logistics of its armed forces, setting an example of action that should be highlighted. at a time when relations between the european union and africa are promisingly deepening, i welcome the european union's new attitude to the conflict in cape delgado. it's about time, mr. high representative. we must now turn this attitude into more action.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr high representative, the republic of mozambique has been facing terrorist mercenary groups which are responsible for very serious acts of terrorism against the mozambican population, particularly in the province of cabo delgado. we strongly condemn the actions of these terrorist groups and denounce the interests behind this new destabilizing operation against mozambique and its people, which aims to appropriate resources which are essential to the economic and social development of the mozambican state. we therefore reject any use of the situation in cabo delgado to open the way to interventionism and neo-colonial positions which do not respect the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of mozambique. the republic of mozambique has the inalienable right to defend its sovereignty and integrity by mobilizing the necessary means, including in the framework of international cooperation, to protect its people, territory and resources. any support to mozambique must respect its sovereignty and its institutions. we hereby express our solidarity with mozambique, its people and their struggle.
madam president, mr high representative, i take your words to mean that i have not come to ask you for a magic solution or a magic wand. i am simply asking you to respond to the request for assistance sent to the european union by the mozambican authorities and in this connection i ask the european union to complement the portuguese response by supporting the training of the mozambican military forces and their equipment and to give a response, a strong and active response, to the humanitarian aid that is needed at this time on the ground. we must not forget that there are over half a million displaced people. people who are without any kind of shelter, who are without access to water, who are without access to medicine, and who are without access to food. this is a matter which must be dealt with urgently. but we can't just be pure and simple about emergency response. we must get to the root of the problems, the inequalities, the poverty and the lack of prospects for the future, despite the fact that this country has the largest gas reserves, which has been a fertile ground for jihadist radicalisation. it is imperative that european multinationals abandon the logic of pure extractivism and take on their environmental responsibilities and their contribution to the sustainable development of the countries in which they operate.
madam president, the atrocities committed by the islamist group al-shabab in cabo delgado are part of a wave of terror which is violently repressing christian communities from africa to the middle east. the consequences are the same everywhere: the closure of schools, which jeopardizes the future of young generations, and the uncertain future of thousands of internally displaced persons. as i have said repeatedly, there are over 300,000 in this part of mozambique. the economic recovery of africa is also at stake. in a world undermined by the health crisis, in cabo delgado, it is not only the huge project of liquefied natural gas exploitation, essential for the whole region, and in particular the department of mayotte, that is compromised, but also traditional activities such as fishing or cashew nut cultivation. it would, however, be premature to talk of any european intervention without first making regional integration play. from the mozambican government to the southern african development community and the african union, it is up to all the continent's leaders to demonstrate in practice their ability to respond.
madam president, mr representative, i would first of all like to recall the important speech by the bishop of pemba, mr luiz fernando lisboa, who presented by videoconference during the meeting of the afet committee on 3 december the humanitarian emergency in mozambique, where terrorist attacks have already left thousands of people dead and displaced. we must put aside political debates and long-term strategies for now because mozambique is facing an emergency situation, also taking into account aggravating factors such as the covid situation and the upcoming rainy season in the region. so, mr borrell, i ask you specifically what other resources did you mention in your intervention to help cabo delgado and the mozambican authorities? finally, i call on the european commission, portugal and the other member states to intervene now with urgency to help mozambique restore security in the region and ensure the arrival and distribution of humanitarian aid. we need a rapid, concrete european response for the good of the mozambican people and to restore the credibility of the european union's ability to act at global level.
the european parliament is preparing to give its consent to the multiannual financial framework 21/27 at a time when the response to the economic crisis is more necessary than ever. yes, it was a long, hard work. because the european parliament has not given up its ambitions, its political flags. we put first those who elected us, the citizens we represent. we don't betray their interests, their urgencies. we are well aware of the global challenges, the challenges of europe. sooner the lives of people, the protection of jobs, the recovery towards a greener, more digital, more social economy. but also because the agreement in the european council was slow and difficult. because some member states are vocal in their contribution to the eu budget, but they are silent about what they earn by their membership of the eu, by their membership of the internal market. fortunately, the european commission released these figures in a timely manner and this helped the negotiation. because member states think they are above the law and have made their lack of commitment to the rule of law too visible. but by joining the eu, they have assumed respect for european values and therefore respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. and the european parliament has not lost its capacity to create the mechanisms to enforce respect for european values. the european parliament does not accept that european citizens' money is used against european values. we demand transparency in the use of public money and we will do everything against fraud and corruption. we did it. we did it. and this result is a victory for the ep. and it is a victory for the eu. we succeeded because we were able to mobilise several political families, starting with their leaders, in a tough negotiating process - within our own house, and the ep's unity, led by president sassoli, was decisive (thanks to my co-rapporteur, jan olbrycht, and our teams, the negotiating team and the tireless secretariat of the committee on budgets) - in a tough negotiating process with the council, which finally took a safe step in difficult circumstances. we know that the agreement in the european council was not reached in half an hour. and all this because we had a clear mandate and the certainty of the urgency of our ambitions. we succeeded because we had the european commission working on finding the political and technical solutions to give substance to our proposals. thank you, commissioner hahn and your team, also for confirming that the european commission is the honest broker in these negotiating processes. we have managed to maintain the dimension of cohesion and cap policies by paving the way for a new generation of policies that make a decisive contribution to achieving the objectives we have set for ourselves by 2030: a 55% reduction in co2 emissions; enhancing sectors where the european dimension brings added value such as research, health or the erasmus programme; supporting programmes in areas particularly devastated by the crisis, such as culture or rights and values; supporting investment and giving the eu more means to act in the global context, making the most of its geo-strategic capacity. but we have also succeeded in introducing new own resources to finance the eu budget - in line with european political priorities - in strengthening the powers of the european parliament - the debate on the interinstitutional agreement that follows is required for that very reason - in complying with horizontal principles such as gender equality, the achievement of the sustainable development goals, 30% climate spending, 10% biodiversity. finally, we have created the conditions for the multiannual financial framework to be the 'anchor' of economic and social recovery, the anchor of the next generation eu, and at the same time not to compromise the future eu budget, because the mff will have the consent of the ep - essential to create the next generation eu - there is a budget line in the eu budget, we have the guarantee that the costs of the fund will not be paid at the expense of european policies, we have strengthened the capacity of the european parliament to ensure more transparency and democratic accountability in the next generation eu and we have introduced new own resources for the payment of the fund, interest and capital. but the mff would not come into force (or be effective) without the programme regulations which make up the mff, which are essential for the sound and democratic management of european public money. the ep is committed to the timely completion of all these regulations. thank you very much to all the rapporteurs on sectoral regulations. without them, the mff would exist, but citizens, governments at all levels - local, regional and national - businesses, local authorities, schools, research centres and ngos still did not benefit from european programmes and funds.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0247 - c4-0173/97). the blackmail by two member states has not paid off and on 1 january the new multiannual financial framework will come into force along with the rule of law mechanism. the recovery plan can go ahead, fuelling the hope of europeans that better days will come at the end of this winter. but the european council decisions are also important because they increase ambition in the fight against climate change. this responsibility, this challenge, is on all of us. and it is this responsibility that the union assumes when it devotes 30% of the budget to combating climate change and 10% to biodiversity, or when it increases the target of reducing emissions by 2030. we are on the right track, and i welcome that, mr president-in-office, with the certainty that we can and must go further than what the council is now proposing. europeans, particularly young people, expect this of us. the planet cannot wait.
in writing. last week, the european council reached agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-2027. the european parliament has spared no effort to secure a robust agreement, not only to respond to the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic, but also to ensure european cohesion and thus ensure that no region is left behind for the next 7 years. the next mff will play a key role for all regions, but i would like to highlight the role it will play for the outermost regions, both in mitigating the economic and social impacts of covid-19 and in supporting policies in a wide range of sectors. a large percentage of the budget will be invested in cohesion and in natural resources and the environment. this clearly reflects the eu's priorities, not only in the will to recover and promote the development of regions, but also in the will to move forward, by committing to the objectives of the european green deal and developing additional efforts to tackle climate change, protect biodiversity, focus on the circular economy and boost renewable energy. in total, €1.8 billion will be allocated to meet the needs of european citizens.
in writing. i welcome the statements by vice-president schinas in presenting the commission's covid-19 strategy. the principles of equal access, guaranteeing financial conditions that ensure that no one is left behind, and the safety of the vaccines to be used are of crucial importance. the speed required to approve vaccines can never override safety. the defence of health must be guaranteed. i also welcome the eu's efforts to provide less developed countries outside the eu with vaccines to help them cope with the pandemic. the pandemic knows no borders and the eu must continue to be a pillar of solidarity.
author. – madam president, our efforts in climate change mitigation are noble. our progress in defining new, bold and ambitious targets and goals in this parliamentary term is inspiring. we can be proud of having approved the first climate law in the world and of what we are doing to achieve climate neutrality in 30 years. we are doing what we were elected to do: to shape a better, brighter and cleaner future for us all, in particular for future generations. i am proud to be taking part in this challenge and, hopefully, in this accomplishment. but the planet is now waiting for us to do our part. we are already facing extreme weather events, devastating fires, severe droughts, floods and devastating storms. we need, quickly and effectively, to adapt our territory, our cities, our economies and our infrastructure. we need to invest in sustainable and nature-based solutions, protect the economy from climate problems, and improve the resilience of critical infrastructure, adding climate factors to risk management practices, stepping up prevention and preparedness efforts, and making use of technological advancements. but many are already suffering: spaniards, portuguese, italians, greeks, cypriots, bulgarians and romanians. our fellow europeans living in these countries are already facing severe risks of desertification across over half of their territory. for example, in spain, 75% of the country is at risk of desertification, and one-fifth of the territory is at a high risk of irreversibly becoming desert. if we are, rightly, financing climate mitigation and transition mechanisms for countries lagging in their energy transition from coal to renewable energy sources, why are we forgetting the countries that are already suffering from climate change, the ones among us who are already burdened by a non-recoverable debt that is maturing in their biodiversity? how does this make sense? we need to advance with adaptation funding, a sort of fair climate adaptation mechanism, to help these cities and regions. i’m sure i don’t need to explain how it is that everyone will lose if we don’t act now to adapt and reduce these climate change effects. our food supply chains, our industries and our economies will be disrupted. we must fix the climate and the environment if we are to live better and have better jobs. rest assured, you will not find the epp arguing in the trenches for the economy and being hostile towards the environment, nor fighting for the climate by shouting for the destruction of the economy or an end to the social market economy. we need both. we need the economy and the environment, and we need them to work together. senhor presidente, caras e caros colegas, as temperaturas médias globais europeias repetidamente quebraram recordes nos últimos anos. em particular os 5 últimos anos foram os mais quentes já registados com ondas de calor, secas e incêndios florestais em toda a europa, com centenas de mortos. e estes impactos são transfronteiriços, afetam a nossa saúde, destroem a nossa agricultura, limitam o comércio e obrigam a migrações e reduzem a nossa segurança. precisamos, por isso, que a nova estratégia para a adaptação às alterações climáticas contenha respostas concretas relativas à desertificação e à degradação dos solos. precisamos de novas construções e infraestruturas que sejam resistentes e eficientes. precisamos de aproveitar melhor o potencial das florestas, que não só retiram o carbono da atmosfera como amenizam a temperatura e retêm a humidade. precisamos de melhorar os sistemas de alerta rápido contra desastres, tirando partido do potencial das novas tecnologias e dos dados. precisamos de investir na gestão eficiente da água, que se torna escassa. da nossa capacidade e dos nossos esforços de adaptação de hoje depende um futuro mais saudável e mais pacífico na europa.
i am very concerned that the european union and its institutions, as this debate and the resolution in this parliament show, are becoming a sounding board for the strategy of confrontation promoted by the trump administration against the people's republic of china. the european parliament is not only associated with but also promoting an unacceptable disinformation operation which seeks to provide cover for the campaign against china after the failure of the united states of america to create a destabilising hotspot in the xinjiang uighur autonomous region. the claim to human rights by those who, like the european union, so often defy them, is in fact an exercise in hypocrisy which they resort to in an attempt to halt and, if possible, prevent the rapid economic and technological development of china. we are voting against this resolution, which is part of a policy of confrontation, interference and aggression against the people's republic of china and its people.
madam president, is there anyone in this room, i am sure, who does not have among the components of his clothing cotton produced by the forced labour of uyghur prisoners in the cynically named 're-education camps' of xinjiang? how does it feel? i'm not feeling well. there is only one way to put an end to this, to adopt and implement the due diligence mechanism so as to remove from our supply chains products that are the result of human rights violations. the brutal repression in xinjiang against the uyghur and kazakh populations is outrageous and cannot go unpunished. the global sanctions regime for human rights violations should be applied to chinese authorities involved in ethnic, religious and political persecution in xinjiang, but also in tibet. yesterday was the day of the sakharov prize, today is the day to remember that islam toti is still detained without contact with his family and without his lawyer, but i cannot fail to mention the case of tsz lun kok, a hong kong citizen with dual portuguese nationality, a european citizen, who has been held incommunicado in china since august.
