i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the good introduction to today's debate, both with regard to the enormous challenges we face, the growing challenges we face with organised crime in the eu, and also with regard to the commission's proposal for what needs to be done in the future. because we need to do more to make our citizens in europe safer. organized crime is destructive! we've seen challenges with that. the epp would like to discuss this. we're not afraid to discuss it. we have seen challenges with that in the northern part of europe, and we are seeing it elsewhere in europe as well. what i would like to bring forward here today is actually to show that cooperation across countries can be done on this. the danish social democratic government and the swedish social democratic government have joined forces to set up a special centre which will be the focal point for the fight against organised crime in the danish-swedish region. because we have challenges, but we can only solve them together. it also means that at times there is a need for border controls, at times there is a need for something else, but we need to work together if we are to solve the problem of organised crime. the swedish and danish governments have taken care of this together, and i look forward to the initiatives that the european commission will also take in the coming months so that we can really do something about this in denmark, sweden and the rest of europe.
madam president, commissioner šefčovič, as you have rightly said, in the 21st century, in the european union, organized crime, corruption crime, white-collar crime, crime against the rule of law is more transnational and, in many cases, more sophisticated. that is why it is so important to improve the instruments of police and judicial cooperation. you have indicated that the harmonization of the definitions of criminal offences is key, and it is; it can also be key to improving the implementation of judicial cooperation and euro-orders. because otherwise, criminals with greater financial resources have a greater chance of escaping justice, of playing with the system, of getting away with it. some of the alleged perpetrators of very serious crimes of corruption against the rule of law, of organized crime in general, play with the grey points of the system, weaving legal entanglements to avoid being judged, manipulating and twisting every rule referring to this police and judicial cooperation to avoid it, trying to have impunity. you said it yourself: we need to be well equipped. count on us to actively fight against all of this. you have our full support.
madam president, according to some studies, about 90% of illegal migrants on their way to europe have come into contact with traffickers who then transported them for a certain part of the way. from day one, it was clear that tolerating illegal migration only strengthens the chains of human traffickers, as well as other forms of organized crime such as terrorism and the chains of prostitution, drug trafficking and human organs. it's understandable that desperate people would agree to bad and dangerous solutions to get europe and a better life. what is not understandable is that europe is sympathetic to the danger they put themselves and their families in and rewards such behavior by accepting these people despite their obvious violation of the law. it only encourages new illegal immigrants and expands the business of organized crime. the union must finally bring order to its immigration and asylum policies. it is for the benefit of all the people of the union, and also of those who are just beginning to become citizens. to integrate effectively into our societies, they must respect our borders, our laws and our way of life.
mr president today we have to talk about how malmö and many other swedish cities have seen a rise in violent crime in recent years to a level that citizens live in constant fear. it is shameful and disgraceful that the politically correct press and the leftist elite try to silence or relativize these incidents. we all know that sweden has taken in a proportionately larger number of immigrants since 2015, and since then, violent crime, bombings, shootings and violence against women have skyrocketed. it must be said that in sweden, the admission of immigrants has led to a disaster and their integration has been a complete failure. it is outrageous that the swedish and european left continue to do everything possible to cover up these facts. the real problem of the rule of law begins when a state is unable to protect its own citizens and the press is not reporting reality but becomes a tool of the left-wing liberal dictatorship of opinion.
- the chairman. a schengen area without internal borders, guaranteeing the right of free movement and residence to every citizen of the union, is one of the greatest achievements of european integration and a key element of the union's identity, embodying cooperation, reconciliation, peace, tolerance, trust and security. but schengen has been undergoing a tough test for the last four years, with six countries in the area extending internal border controls for four years, despite having no legal basis for them. so today we are faced with the question of how to proceed. we are already witnessing the beginning of the end of schengen and what can be done to revive it. how and when will it be possible to abandon internal controls in practice and whether alternative measures can achieve the same objective. the implementation of internal border control cannot be a long-term response to the challenges of cross-border organised crime, migration and security. internal controls are just a short-term solution, they're a way of shifting responsibility. the challenges we face include a european migration and asylum policy, secure external borders, the fight against people smugglers, and the alleviation of the situation in crisis zones from which people are fleeing. we also need to strengthen crossborder cooperation between police and judicial authorities, the exchange of information between countries, which is still not effective, and above all trust. in this spirit, the european parliament also adopted amendments to the schengen code with more transparent rules. when schengen was created, we could not have imagined four years of internal border controls. we cannot afford to lose schengen as we know it. of course, even if we re-establish controls at all borders, we will never be able to eliminate all risks. we have a rule reform on the table, but it's blocked by a lack of political will among governments. so who really benefits from the status quo? so i repeat my call: we must urgently return to the negotiating table and save schengen before it is too late.
madam president, we need to be honest about a few things. the fight against cross-border organised crime can only be achieved through a coordinated approach and cooperation based on mutual trust between the competent national and european authorities. the reintroduction of border controls in the schengen area is a solution that does not solve the cause, but only temporarily treats certain symptoms of the problem. exceptional situations should not become the rule and in this context europol and eurojust should and can play a central role in addressing the root causes of the problem. secondly, the schengen area is an area of freedom and security. we can only keep it that way if, on the one hand, the national authorities do their job in an exemplary way, but also at european level we are more coherent and more applied, including legislatively. in the fight against organised crime, the current measures are not enough, as the experts present at the libe hearing on 3 december also found, and as you rightly said, commissioner. last but not least, my country, romania, belongs in the schengen area, but it has to address the problem of organised crime much more seriously and effectively than it does today. we must not have vulnerabilities that endanger union citizens by giving satisfaction to those who want to restrict freedom of movement. it must remain a fundamental pillar of the european project.
madam president, the renew group supports the use of delegated acts by the commission towards required common standards for charging ports and device cables. the voluntary approach failed to deliver, and memoranda of understanding are only of value when they are fully implemented by all market players. that said, i believe the best short solution is not, in fact, a common charger itself, but to require new phones and chargers to be sold separately, and not only as a single bundle. while all devices would come with a power cable, consumers would not be forced to buy the charging block, which they may not need or want. this would allow consumers to get a better deal and to cut waste at the same time. so let’s cut waste, but let’s protect in a way to show why we do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, the good news: we have a wall-mounted socket where all the different plugs that mrs de sutter has shown fit in. that's a big advantage. it shows that standardisation in europe has made a great step forward for citizens and consumers. in the case of the gsm standard for mobile telephony, a single standard in europe has ensured that we have much lower prices. in other words, standardization can have incredible costs for citizens, and we should stick to that. however, i would also say to all those who will be here tomorrow and who will decide to introduce a single connector, so to speak: we have a market economy in europe and therefore we have to be careful when we use such methods because we want to ensure that innovation has a chance. but i think that after ten years, all those companies who still insist on buying their own separate plug - and my liberal colleague has pointed out that we have gone down from 30 to three, so that means that the european commission's incentives have worked positively - must give a good reason why separate plugs are possible. and there's no excuse for wireless devices anymore. the commission must act immediately.
madam chair, each of us at home has a few chargers that we never use. we've already thrown a few out, but the drawers keep piling up. 51,000 tons of chargers are thrown into the environment every year. the commission's voluntary measures to standardise chargers are not producing results. the european union's e-waste continues to grow at a rate of five percent per year. the same charger should be used for all small devices. it is estimated that this will save consumers more than half a billion euros by 2021. i want to emphasize that standardizing chargers should be just one small step towards more sustainable consumption. as many as 78% of consumers had to replace their mobile phone for reasons that could easily have been resolved at the product design stage. the commission has also found that the union industry has not been able to comply with the anti-dumping duty imposed by the provisional regulation. it is time for the new commission to show that the interests of the citizens are above the interests of industry!
madam president, commissioner, the question of the common charger is of the utmost importance, not only for the lives of consumers, who are obliged to buy a range of chargers for each device, but also for environmental reasons. the current situation produces a huge amount of completely unnecessary electronic waste which is estimated to amount to about 50,000 tons of obsolete chargers per year. the european parliament has stressed several times in the past the need to develop a common charger. the commission's approach of encouraging voluntary agreements between large producers has not produced satisfactory results. we need political will to solve this problem, which requires binding regulation with concrete goals and objectives for the whole of the european internal market.
i have to say, madam president, i was listening to you, commissioner, and all i could do was shake my head. because what you told us today, i heard nine years ago, ten years ago, eleven years ago. and what happened? i don't know. because, my dear colleagues, who claim that we only have three different chargers, i look in the store and see many more. because it's not just about mobile phones, it's about the tablets, it's about the little cameras, which means a lot of different chargers that we have, but that we shouldn't be hanging on to, but that we should really have a uniformity. we have seen that a commitment by the companies is not enough, it is useless. because after 11 or 12 years, we are still waiting for these solutions to come. no, not a voluntary commitment, but action, commissioner! action is what we need and what we as a parliament want to do.
madam president, commissioner, 51 000 tonnes of electronic waste a year is generated by the accumulation of mobile terminal chargers, with its consequent environmental footprint. the absence of a single charger also directly affects european citizens and their free movement. when traveling, they are forced to carry different loaders, which undoubtedly limits their mobility. we call on the commission to come forward with legislative initiatives which will put an end to the immense variety of chargers which exist today. the european union - as has already been said here - has been advocating a single charger for mobile terminals for more than ten years, and we have not yet achieved this. we must simplify, yes simplify, and we must make life easier for european citizens and businesses. the adoption of a single charger will undoubtedly simplify the work of our smes, making it easier for them to comply with more efficient legislation. it will also make life easier for consumers and waste management, allowing for more rational use of chargers and reducing their number. if the main priorities of this commission, of this new commission, are digitalisation and the green pact, the single charger represents a unique opportunity to bring the european union closer to its citizens and to demonstrate its usefulness.
madam president, the introduction of common charging points can be another example of how the european union is helping to improve the lives and comfort of our citizens. i'm sure each of us has experienced the situation where we couldn't charge our device because we didn't have an adapter that would fit on it. in the recent past, it was even worse, because it was true that every manufacturer, or even every model of product, had a different type of charger. in addition to the obvious inconvenience to citizens, this has meant and still means thousands of tonnes of unnecessary waste. the vast majority of manufacturers have already shown that they have no problem adapting to the micro usb standard and equipping almost all devices with it. however, there are still some strong players who refuse to do so, even though there are no obvious technical obstacles. the introduction of uniform charging facilities should be another example of regulation that does not restrict but helps the free movement of citizens, goods and services. it increases safety and saves resources. that's why we need to get her on the job as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, we are all in agreement and the commission has said so. up to €95 million in benefits for consumers, a positive environmental impact, but also 'indisputable' benefits for the single market and for the increased competitiveness of our small, medium and large enterprises. why doesn't it happen? why have we been like this for ten years? we have abolished roaming, we have made and have made a number of decisions about job locking, portability, and so on, very important ones. 2020 is a magical year for these european institutions. a lot of things have to happen in 2020 for us to actually deliver on what we've promised. we're going to make the single charger a reality in this 2020. let it happen. the commission has the european parliament.
the honorable chairman. the debate on the single charger is proof that we know how to listen to people on very concrete issues. but of course, things are dragging on too long. if we have been talking about the charger for ten years, people rightly accuse us of being inefficient and of being influenced by multinationals, who obviously have no interest in these changes. the introduction of a single charger would first of all make life easier for people and, of course, for businesses. however, with as much as 51 000 tonnes of chargers being discarded, the introduction of a single model would also have a very positive impact on our environment. the commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market. i hope, of course, that this idea, this initiative, will be completed as soon as possible and that we will prove to all the citizens of the eu that we are capable of being effective and independent.
madam president, a few years ago, we took a step forward with this project to standardize mobile phone chargers -- a project that has proven to be beneficial to consumers. commissioner, the standardisation of chargers for all mobile electronic equipment will be a further step forward for the european consumer. we must, however, ensure that the next steps to implementation are taken as quickly as possible so that europeans can benefit from these regulations as soon as possible. we must not lose sight of the objectives that the european union has set itself through the green deal and we must ensure that, in addition to standardisation, we also enforce compliance with environmentally-friendly production technologies, an extended warranty period and clear recycling arrangements so that the carbon footprint of the final product is as low as possible. these provisions must be respected both by chargers produced here in the european union and by products imported into the union.
mr president, women in europe are already better educated than men, but despite this, women's wages are over 16% lower than men's. what's the cause? women are more likely to work part-time, parental leave is often accumulated for women, they also work part-time, career progression is lower because of parental leave and women are often paid less for the same work. it is very important that the european commission now take a more active approach to this problem and introduce legislation to increase wage transparency. but i think it's equally important that we can share parental leave more evenly. this is also the first time that a very good basis for a directive has been adopted. it is also important to promote women's career development in other ways. because the fact that women's pay is so much lower reflects on women's entire lives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations.
mr president, equal pay for equal work: this is what we were thinking when we heard gender pay gap, but now it is more than that. the statistics are showing us that women are pushed towards the domains and towards the jobs that are paid less in the general economy. we encourage women to go to work, to have a career, but do we do enough to make sure that they have equality of choice? there are still educators in schools that are telling children that boys are more inclined for science and girls for literature and care. we still see the lack of equality in the educational process. we still see clothes that are telling girls they are delicate flowers and boys that they are heroes. we still see in our society, especially in the less developed ones, gender roles that are limiting both women and men. we have to take action. we have to do something to stop gender—based education and the way we are influencing children to choose a career. it is not enough to proclaim. it is time for real measures, real projects and real action.
in writing. – to kick-start the plenary debates in 2020 on the gender pay gap augurs well for the eu’s commitment to deliver on this. yet it is a stark reminder that in our societies women are still fighting for their right to earn what is deserved. we are making the case for why a person should be paid the same amount of money for the equal amount of work done by another, whatever their gender. on average, female workers are paid 16% less than men. put simply, women work two months – out of 12 – for free. the situation is like this in most member states, including malta. i look forward to commissioner helena dalli’s new gender strategy. we must tackle pay transparency – it will not be easy but we must keep pushing. considering that most graduates are women, something is wrong. women who deserve top managerial positions are side—lined. not because of their competence, but due to chauvinism. companies must be more progressive. our laws need to be more progressive. if we treat women and men at par in family life and move away from stereotypes, companies will follow.
in writing. pay discrimination based on gender is a widespread phenomenon in several sectors of the economy. in europe, it is estimated that women are paid on average 16% less than men, despite the fact that the tfeu enshrines the principle of equal pay. women thus pay the disadvantage of taking on important unpaid tasks, such as housework and caring for children or family members, in a greater proportion than men. the trend towards career breaks and more frequent periods of time outside the labour market also have an impact on future earnings and retirement, which is about 40% lower than for men. in the presentation of the new gender equality strategy announced by the european commission, i hope that, in addition to the declarations of principle, the instruments will be provided which will have a significant impact on all the root causes of the pay gap.
in writing. women in the european union continue to be paid much less than men, despite having the same skills, experience and position. i therefore believe that there is a need for greater pay transparency and for the commission to take a broad-based approach to equalising the pay gap between men and women as soon as possible. the pay gap is one thing, but the fact that women often have to balance family life with their work is another. as a result, they are less likely to be in the labour market than men, and there is a lack of infrastructure to make it easier for women to return to work or to start a new career. we must also bear in mind maternity and parental leave, during which women sometimes receive lower pay and therefore pay lower pension contributions, and retire earlier than men. all of this leads to a huge difference in benefits. it is now as high as 38% in the eu. the average working age at retirement is 37 for men and just 33 for women. as a consequence, women of retirement age are much more likely to be exposed to extreme poverty and social exclusion. in this context, when developing a strategy for gender equality and closing the pay gap, will the commissioner also address the issue of poverty and exclusion of older women?
the debate on the commission statement entitled 'prioritizing housing as urgent action to address the situation of homeless people in europe' (2019/3013 ((rsp)) follows.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank parliament for organising this debate because it touches on one of the major problems at the heart of our concerns about social exclusion and poverty. the number of homeless people in europe is growing. in fact, you only have to walk around our cities to see it. decent housing at a reasonable price in a safe environment is a basic need that can be considered a human right. the situation of homeless people is a major challenge in a growing number of european countries. there are no official and comparable figures on the scale of this challenge. however, the few figures we have indicate that the number of homeless people has increased in the majority of member states over the last decade. the number of homeless people in europe is estimated at some three million. every night, more than 400,000 people sleep on our streets. it is a daily and tangible problem that we face in our cities and that challenges us. the causes of this problem are many and complex, but it is well established that the parameters of housing markets and housing policies have a direct and significant impact on homelessness, which is a form of extreme exclusion and particularly affects vulnerable groups, including people with disabilities and migrants. recent analyses more specifically identify rising housing prices and the shortage of social housing as a key factor. the increase in rental and purchase prices makes housing increasingly unaffordable. as such, social housing, market surveillance and housing allowances can potentially help households. the fact remains that many citizens, without becoming homeless, can and often do suffer from fluctuations in housing markets and policies, including literally skyrocketing prices. the housing crisis is linked to a lack of investment. the high level working group on investment in social infrastructure in europe estimated in its 2018 report that investment deficits in affordable housing amount to almost eur 57 billion in the european union. although the union does not have the competence on housing which is often a local competence in the member states social housing and homelessness play an important role within the eu's social policy agenda. the charter of fundamental rights of the eu states that the union recognises and respects the right to social and housing assistance in order to ensure a decent existence for all those who lack sufficient resources, in accordance with community law and national laws and practices. the european pillar of social rights includes a principle dedicated to housing and assistance for the homeless. it is a clear political signal of the importance which the european union attaches to the fight against homelessness and housing exclusion. the european pillar of social rights sets the bar high by promoting the reintegration of homeless people into society by means of enabling social services. the commission will now launch a broad consultation on the implementation of the pillar at national, regional and local level. the eu's role will be to work alongside all levels of governance for the benefit of citizens, and housing should also be a focus of this process. principle 19 of the pillar is included among the areas of investment of the european social fund plus (esf+) and the european regional development fund (erdf) for the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. applying the integrated housingled approach, housing action supported by the erdf should be combined with thematic areas that can be supported through esf+. in addition, we foresee an increased guarantee for social infrastructure within the proposed investeu, the eu's future financial instrument for investments. the european fund for strategic investments is already playing a key role by financing a wide range of social infrastructure investment projects, including affordable social housing projects. through the european semester, the commission provides member states with policy support, guidance and orientation on how to design efficient national policies aimed at ensuring citizens' access to affordable and accessible social housing by stressing housing supply shortage, dysfunctional housing markets, macroeconomic imbalances and insufficient stock of social housing. the issue of homelessness has to be fully taken into account at the level of our policies fighting poverty. the commission has shown its readiness to support member states when and where possible on tackling homelessness. a good example is the integrated housing-led approach, which follows the principles of housing first, that is: combining the provision of immediate housing with enabling services to empower homeless people to sustain their tenancy, promote stable living conditions and prevent repeat homelessness. through the tools at its disposal, the commission enables the exchange of good practices and learning between member states. the commission also directly supports feantsa, a european-level network of national organisations focusing exclusively on the fight against homelessness and housing exclusion. it runs concrete projects at the local level and has benefited from close to eur 5 million-worth of grants from the european commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can already hear the voices saying: why are you dealing with such a subject? you're not in charge. and i can only say that, yes, we may not have original jurisdiction on this subject, but i believe that an issue such as the exploding homelessness in the european union and the extremely tense situation on the housing market in general must be discussed here in the middle of this parliament, because if we as parliamentarians were to turn a blind eye to such a development, then we would not be worthy of being members of this house. if we look at the situation in the large conurbations in particular, where on the one hand we have exploding rents, shrinking housing - all this is combined in many places with rising energy costs - if we consider that in germany alone 400 000 households are without electricity, and a total of 17 million households in the european union cannot heat properly or at all, this is actually accompanied by worsening developments, so to speak, and we have to deal with this. and i am also very clear: we also have to deal with business practices like those of airbnb, which on the one hand give unfair competitive advantages to hotels and pensions and on the other hand further trigger these developments. we also have to face the fact that we do not even have a uniform instrument to measure the situation of homelessness in europe today. all of these are things that we urgently need to address, and, apart from these, there is a question that needs to be brought to the center of the political debate: how can we promote ownership, especially for young families? it is at the very beginning of the chain, and the problems we are discussing here are, so to speak, at the end of the chain, but we must also do something at the beginning of the chain.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. that's a city the size of my own utrecht, the fourth largest city in our country. there is a shortage of affordable housing, both in the rental sector and in the commercial housing sector. only 10% of the homes for sale are affordable and accessible to beginners. in the rental sector, it's actually just as difficult. in addition to the fact that affordable housing is scarce, there are often very strict requirements. this is the way people have to earn three times the rent per month. the social rent is already difficult: there are long waiting lists in my city, over ten years. in addition, in the netherlands, the rich country, the number of homeless people has doubled in the last ten years. i therefore make a call first of all: everyone sign the "housing for all" petition. we are therefore working together with the european institutions and the european commission to ensure that everyone has access to affordable housing. i call on the commission to come up with a european plan, not just to combat homelessness, but to work towards an affordable roof over the head for all european citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, there are 700 000 homeless people in the european union overnight - a figure that has increased by 75% since 10 years ago. according to estimates by feantsa, the european federation of organisations working with homeless people, eurostat data shows that in 2017, one in four europeans living in poverty lived in an overcrowded dwelling. at the top is romania, unfortunately, where 47% of the total population lives like this, and in 65.9% of cases we are talking about families with children. romania is also in a dramatic situation with regard to housing conditions, with 17.2% of the population living in inadequate housing. housing is the first element that leads to tackling the problems of homeless people. the 'housing first' programme has had remarkable results in countries where it has become part of national strategies: finland, the netherlands, portugal. the figures in romania and elsewhere in the european union reflect the low effectiveness of policies to tackle homelessness. cases in romania such as pata-rât in cluj or pirita in maramureș are not acceptable. the argument that the ministry of development does not cooperate with the ministry of labor, health and education must remain somewhere in the past. there are two important prizes for the expansion and development of the programme in europe: identifying adequate and safe housing and ensuring stable and sufficient funding so that it can become a widespread response to homelessness. i call on the european commission, and i am ready to join this, to set clear objectives on promoting social impact investments under investeu and to ensure that the 'housing first' programme is integrated into regional, national and local strategies. the government of romania requests to prioritise addressing the problems of homeless people and to align with successful european policies and practices in these areas, with a view to developing a national strategic framework with an integrated cross-sectoral approach for social housing policy.
mr president, the cooperation and verification mechanism was introduced for romania in 2007. in the initial phase it had four objectives. the latest report, last year's, has no less than 18 recommendations, marking a jump back some 13 years. it is true that the report was written during the election campaign, when my friend frans timmermans was exercising his criticism of the romanian judiciary. in order to have a correct report, i ask the commission to re-do the report for romania by independent experts, not subordinate to commissioner timmermans.
mr president, the new ecological pact will probably bring about changes comparable to those produced by the great revolutions through which mankind has passed, but we have an obligation to ensure that there will be no dramatic social consequences, such as those recently encountered in europe. for example, in romania, before accession, the closure of mines declared as non-performing was one of the conditions imposed by the european union. a tragedy of proportions ensued. hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs, cities went bankrupt and turned into ruins. there's been social unrest all over the country for years. no government program could repair the disaster that was both human and economic and ecological. even today, 16 years later, in those areas, retraining is minimal and poverty is maximum. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that the future just transition mechanism will complement, not replace, the cohesion programme, which must continue because it has not been completed, that this mechanism will be surgically applied exactly where it needs to be, that it will come with a package of technical assistance and, above all, that it will not deepen the gap that still exists between the countries of eastern and western europe.
mr. chairman, the mandatory rule says that under the candle is the darkest. the european union is adjusting a whole range of policies, it is intervening in a range of areas of our lives, sometimes happily, sometimes less appropriately, but what we are missing, inexplicably, is the adjustment of the activities and funding of political parties, and now i am thinking of national parties. there is a lack of transparency in this respect, many states have no regulation at all on the reporting of the activities of national political parties and the availability of this data for national authorities, but also for citizens in general. and it has to be said that we have a whole series of cases where national political parties are acting as trojan horses for third powers, sometimes russia, sometimes others. i can talk about the free austrians, the afd, the brexit party, the hungarian jobbik and a whole host of other parties. and i think it's important that the european union also address this issue, because under the sun, it can be the darkest, but also the most dangerous.
mr. president, romania has one of the highest incidences of cancer. unfortunately, the treatment and care of cancer patients is not up to acceptable standards. their struggle and their families' struggle is incredible. i know what it's like to see family members taken by this disease. i know what it's like to fight alongside them in a system that doesn't seem to be trying to help you, quite the opposite. that is why i think it is important that here in the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we should be making as many projects as possible where the main objective is prevention. this health chapter is part of our mandate. we owe it to all of those who voted for us to think about clear ways to prevent disease. it is no longer news to anyone that excessive pollution and diet are among the main causes of disease. let us give this chapter its due importance! let us recognise that the health of european citizens is or should be our greatest concern and act accordingly!
mr president, my speech today concerns a subject which is part of our enlargement policy. the european union has recently been focusing its attention on the western balkans, but i recently visited one of these countries - serbia - and i found that although romania made it a condition when negotiations with that country started seven years ago that the rights of minorities be respected, i noticed something that i think is extremely serious, namely that the rights of the romanian minority in that country - there are over 300 000 romanian speakers - are still not respected. there is no access to education in romanian, there is no freedom for the citizens of this romanian-speaking country to have their own press institutions and it is all the more serious as the ban on building a romanian church in malainitsa, in eastern serbia church, which is threatened with demolition for several years by the serbian authorities has not been lifted. so i am raising an alarm to the commission and ask that the rights of national minorities in this country be strictly monitored, because although a bilateral agreement was signed between romania and serbia - an agreement that was negotiated by the current foreign minister, bogdan aurescu - for 7 years, it is not respected and i believe that it is unacceptable for a country with european aspirations, which wants to become a member of the european union, not to respect these commitments.
mr president, thank you for bearing with me again. following representations by an elected representative in my constituency, i’m raising this issue as a matter of public record before this house. in recent days, following various media reports, the case of a young british female tourist who made a complaint to police of a multiple rape while on holiday in cyprus has come to light. she later withdrew the complaint following 10 hours – 10 hours – of police questioning without legal representation. as a result, she was charged and found guilty of the crime ‘fomenting public mischief’ and assigned a four—month prison sentence, suspended for three years. justice in this union should work without fear or favour. we are all equal eu citizens. having looked at reports of this case, i believe there’s a serious miscarriage of justice, or there’s evidence of that, which will do damage to the ongoing reputation of cyprus. while i welcome the reality of a suspended sentence and the safe return of the young woman in question, i will be raising this issue with my cypriot colleagues. it is my hope that her name will be cleared on appeal. this union cannot be considered complete until justice and women’s rights are guaranteed throughout its territory.
mr president, perhaps as a follow-up to what the honourable member said before me, only a strong europe can adequately respond to the challenges of the modern world and that is why the four priorities of the croatian presidency, which we will hear more about tomorrow morning, and we are almost there tomorrow, can be summed up as a strong europe in a world of challenges. i am sure we all want a europe that develops, with a clear emphasis on equal opportunities for small and large, rich and poor, a europe that connects to the full potential of all its capacities. bringing europe closer to its citizens and informing them as much as possible about all that europe brings because, let us not forget, it is their home. at the initiative of croatia, demography is included in the strategic agenda of the european union, and dubravka šuica is the vice-president of the conference on the future of europe, which is entrusted with this task. we want a europe that protects, we want a europe that has influence. we want to try to strengthen europe's position in the world, our old continent which has an indispensable role to play in being a corrective and a force for new challenges in the world. are we ready for them? i'm sure croatia will prove that we are. we'll hear more about all this tomorrow, and for all of you coming to croatia, i want you to feel how strongly croatia is breathing for the european union.
this item is closed.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the presentation of the croatian presidency's work programme (2019/2959 ((rsp)).
the chairman of the council. other dear president, vice-president and members of the european parliament, dear president of the european commission, dear colleagues, it is a great pleasure for me to be here today in the european parliament to present the priorities of the first croatian presidency of the council of the european union. for croatia and all my fellow citizens, this is a historic moment. it was only 30 years ago that the first free elections were held in croatia. thus, after nine centuries, the croatian people regained their sovereignty, and croatia returned to the political map of the world. i am pleased that today, on the eve of the 28th anniversary of croatia's international recognition, when the then members of the european community recognized croatia, i have the opportunity to speak in the european parliament. we have gained recognition in the difficult circumstances of war aggression. croatia, thanks to its defenders, defended itself and liberated itself 25 years ago, after which it was renewed and moved forward on the path of development, democracy and european integration. and six and a half years ago it became a member of the european union, which today it is taking the helm of for the first time. on this journey, croatia's european integration has been a firm and clear roadmap in all the efforts and reforms we have undertaken. i look forward to working with the european parliament successfully over the next six months, to show our citizens that they have tangible benefits from the european union. we have some important tasks ahead of us. first, an agreement on the new multiannual financial framework: a timely agreement on the entire financial framework for the next seven years is our priority. in this, the mff should meet the expectations of all our citizens in all our member states. so it must continue to finance cohesion and agricultural policies, but also be able to address the many new challenges the european union is facing. it must ensure our togetherness and unity, while respecting all of our differences economic, social and demographic. it must also make europe more effective and visible on the global stage. to achieve this, we must act fast. we cannot allow delays in the implementation of our eu programmes, as of 2021. otherwise, we would be disappointing our citizens. together with the president of the european council, who is continuing the mff talks at the highest political level, we will spare no effort to achieve a breakthrough during our presidency. this would enable us to finalise the entire legislative package under the mff and we count on close and efficient cooperation with all the parliament's committees and rapporteurs in this endeavour. we hear and understand all your concerns, messages and expectations, but we find it of crucial importance to continue the talks and negotiations at all levels and to advance all the files. in this we are united by a common goal, as our failure would only strengthen those who do not want a strong europe. and we cannot allow that. second, the end of the process of the united kingdom's orderly withdrawal from the european union: after the ratification of the withdrawal agreement by the united kingdom, we have to finalize the ratification procedure on the eu side. in this, the crucial step is the consent of the european parliament. the croatian presidency will, in accordance with the declaration on the future relationship and the guidelines of the european council, work towards the swift adoption of a comprehensive council mandate for negotiations, on the basis of the proposals by the european commission. though we will be sad to see a member state leaving, the european union and the united kingdom share a long history. so this should be a new starting point for building close partner relations in the future, based on mutual interest, respect and a level playing field, especially in the areas of trade, security and other sectoral policies. however, the transition period of 11 months is extremely short, and it will take a lot of goodwill and a lot of work to bring these negotiations to an end in that period and to reach a good agreement for both sides. ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, the organisation of the zagreb summit between the union and the western balkans and the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. we do not lose sight of our ambition to try to obtain the support of the member states for the opening of accession negotiations with these two countries. the next report of the european commission and its proposals for improving the methodology of the accession negotiations will be important. for the credibility of enlargement policy, it is important to maintain the principles of respect for political criteria, reference criteria and individual progress of each candidate country on the basis of its results, while accession to the union remains the ultimate objective of the negotiations. it must remain the central axis of enlargement policy. we are pleased that the european parliament adopted a resolution last october in favour of opening negotiations with albania and north macedonia, underlining the importance of enlargement for both the candidate countries and the european union. in doing so, the european parliament reaffirms its attachment to a credible enlargement policy of the union. the zagreb summit in may comes 20 years after the first zagreb summit, which opened up the european perspective to the countries of south-east europe and paved the way for stabilisation and association agreements. among these countries is croatia, which is currently the only country to have joined the european union. moreover, she is currently president of the council of the european union. our examples are given to the next summit in zagreb with a symbolic value added. therefore, at the zagreb summit, we wish to send a strong message to our partners in south-east europe, who are still in a sort of european anti-chamber, and say to them: if you pursue all the reforms and fulfil all the criteria for membership, your european perspective is not lost on the cause and you are the welcome ones. at the same time, the union helps you to achieve your objective through participation in european projects, integration into infrastructure networks through regular political dialogue at the highest level and the promotion of european values and principles. fourthly, the mise en place of the conference on the future of europe. we will tackle this task rapidly so that, on the basis of the council's position, we can conclude interinstitutional agreements as soon as possible and ensure the swift start of the conference. it is important that the council, the parliament and the commission are appropriate to the objectives of the conference and are represented on an equal footing. the conference must also ensure the involvement of all member states, national parliaments and a large participation of citizens, in particular young people. it must be inclusive and open, and its debate must focus on the issues arising from the strategic programme of the european union, on the political orientations of the president of the european commission and, above all, on the subjects of most concern or interest to citizens. we are pleased that the croatian commissioner dubravka šuica will be in charge of the european commission's preparations for the conference. the conference is a new opportunity to bring europe closer to its citizens and to better understand through dialogue what is being reproached to it; to understand the reasons for the growing disaffection of citizens towards europe; to understand what led to brexit and why many europeans in other member states develop the same scepticism; to understand the causes of the strengthening of populism and anti-european resentment and to see together what we must change and improve. it is also an opportunity to give citizens a say in what europe they want so that we can better meet their expectations. ladies and gentlemen, croatia is taking over the presidency of the council with four priority blocks, and they are: europe is developing. our main objective is to ensure the union's balanced, sustainable and inclusive growth, taking into account the specificities and needs of all member states and their regions. this requires further development of policies that create better working and living conditions and contribute to environmental protection and the fight against climate change. we will pay particular attention to the european green deal, which the council will discuss in several formations, given its breadth and scope, with the importance of ensuring adequate funding for its implementation. we discussed this in detail during the visit of the college of the european commission to zagreb last week. we need to work together to achieve climate neutrality for the european union by 2050. deepening the single market and fostering digitalisation, investing in innovation and research, quality and lifelong learning and developing skills adapted to the jobs of the future all play a role in strengthening the union's competitiveness. and it is competitiveness that is the key to ensuring its growth. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. our main guiding thought must always be to improve the quality of life of all citizens of the union, but also to identify the demographic incentives that will build a more vibrant society. a europe that connects. the growth and development of the european union depends to a large extent on the interconnectedness of its economy and the full use of its infrastructural and human potential. connectivity is one of the most important prerequisites for achieving social, economic and territorial cohesion among member states. we will therefore strongly advocate for further development of transport, energy and digital infrastructure, for the benefit of our citizens. in doing so, we as the presidency will place a strong emphasis on bringing citizens closer together through education, culture and sport. these bonds are a special reflection of our strength and our togetherness. third is a europe that protects. only a safe europe can provide a peaceful environment for its citizens. in this regard, the efficient protection of the eu's external borders as well as increased resilience to external threats and hybrid and cyber threats are of vital importance. achieving a comprehensive solution for sustainable and effective migration and asylum policies is our joint objective. we will remain focused on further developing our union as an area of freedom, security and justice, based on the shared values of democracy and the rule of law. therefore, the adoption of the new strategic guidelines in the area of freedom, security and justice will be one of our priorities. the rule of law is a core value and a fundamental principle of our union's functioning. we will pursue a comprehensive approach to the protection and promotion of the rule of law, while strengthening dialogue and the unity of the member states. fourth is an influential europe. no single member state of the union is able to address the international challenges on its own. our unity is our greatest strength. europe should speak with one voice more often and more loudly, confirming its global role in today's multipolar world. it is crucial to maintain an open dialogue with our north american partners and allies. our ambition as a global actor should be supported by further development of capabilities and instruments for joint action, including our defence, albeit in complementarity with nato. it is also important to maintain europe's relationship with china, russia, india and japan and other big powers on the basis of mutual respect, while continuing to develop multilateralism and an international rules-based order. in a wide range of policy areas, from climate change and trade to nuclear proliferation, our union has a unique ability to achieve necessary compromises and resolve crises. tensions in the middle east, the highly complex political and security situation in iran and iraq, old and new challenges in the gulf region: all this requires our constant, active and creative engagement, and strong leadership. as a staunch supporter of the un sustainable development goals and the world's largest donor of development assistance, we have a special responsibility towards african, caribbean and pacific nations. during the croatian presidency, an eastern partnership summit will be held as well. the european union is facing, as we all know, many challenges. every day the world is getting more complex and our tasks are more numerous. too many actors offer easy answers and instant solutions, often unfounded or based on false information. the expectations of our citizens are growing. we must get closer to our citizens. we must listen and provide appropriate answers to their concerns. we cannot miss any opportunity to do more for the sake of our citizens. to meet the challenge, we need to promote equality, inclusivity and solidarity, while strengthening europe's democracy as our core value on the global scene. therefore, as our programme says, we need a strong europe in a world of challenges. (applause) i'm going to go.
president of the commission. – mr president, it is such a pleasure, prime minister, to see you again at the start of the croatian presidency. it’s just a few days ago that the college of commissioners were treated to the very famous and outstanding finest croatian hospitality. we spent a wonderful 24 hours there. we saw some of the very rich culture, traditional folklore, diversity, all that which croatia has brought to the union. it was a phenomenal ceremony at the opening of the presidency in the national theatre, which showed the energy and the enthusiasm croatia brings to the union, so thank you very much for that. it’s also a very special moment to sit here and to listen to the prime minister speak about the presidency here in the home of european democracy, because i know, andrej, that this house is a place that is very dear to your heart. there are not many who can say that they have been a european parliament trainee, then, later on, an mep, and then come back to strasbourg as a prime minister chairing the eu presidency. chapeau and respect for that. (applause) in some ways, your story mirrors the remarkable journey your country has taken. as you have just said, in the space of only three decades, croatia has gone from bitter bloodshed to being here today at the beating heart of our union. tomorrow you will celebrate the ‘day of international recognition’, marking 28 years since the european community recognised croatia. but no one could have imagined then how far and how fast this country has grown. that is down to the will of your people, to the sacrifice they made, to their commitment to european values, and to their determination to join our union of peace, progress and prosperity. over the next six months, we will need all that determination, that unity and energy that croatians are famous for. we will need that determination to find common solutions to issues that have divided us in the past like, for example, migration, which will be one of the tasks we will be tackling. we will need that unity to handle brexit and budget negotiations and deal with the pressing international issues you just mentioned, and we will need that energy to ensure that europe can shape the digital and climate transitions. this is the task ahead of us and i am delighted that the croatian presidency reflects this fully in the four pillars the prime minister just mentioned. the presidency’s motto says we need a strong europe in a world of challenges, and indeed, it’s true that the challenges around us are becoming louder and more dangerous and more intensive by the day. i think it is now for the constructive force to help push back on the world’s destructive tendencies. and it’s always the same. as long as there’s violence taking place, it’s very loud and dominant, but the violence only ends if the talks start again. here is the strength of the european union – because the european union has an enormous amount of diplomatic strength. it is able to focus on de-escalation dialogue because we have good relations with many, many actors in that region and partners in the region. we have relations that are time tested, relations that are reliable, that are trusted. we’ve played an enormous role and still do play in the stabilisation of iraq, and the same goes for brokering the nuclear agreement with iran. but beyond conflict resolution, now is also the time for europe to be more assertive on the global stage, to strengthen our position as the trading power of the world, to deepen, as you’ve said, our relationship with nato and to take on more responsibility ourselves, and to build an alliance with africa that can stand the test of time and help boost both our economies. we will have the college-to-college meeting with africa and will be preparing the eu-africa summit. in this spirit, we will present our comprehensive strategy with africa during your presidency. the next six months will be crucial for our relationship with the balkans. you mentioned it, andrej. croatia knows better than most the power of european perspective. it’s a matter of perspective to have it, a true perspective, and croatia knows better than most how far it can take countries in transforming their systems and economies. croatia knows the good europe can do by engaging and investing in the region. it is now particularly important that we keep up this momentum before the zagreb summit on the western balkans later this year. if we want the western balkans summit in zagreb to be a success, we have to do our homework now. that’s a reason why we will put forward our enlargement methodology in a few weeks, so that we can discuss the modernisation that is necessary, but the most important part is to give our friends in the western balkans a perspective for beginning the accession talks with north macedonia and with albania. they’ve done the homework which we’ve asked them to do, so it’s time to give them a real perspective to move on now. croatia’s leadership will also be essential when it comes to negotiations on our future budget. over the next weeks, the presidency, supported by president michel, will look to make headway so that we can reach an agreement. we need a balanced budget, yes, we need a fair budget, yes, but most of all we need a modern budget. the next seven years are different from the seven years we’ve just gone through, so it is of utmost importance that the modernisation part – that’s what people expect us to do, that’s the area where all the member states keep asking the european union to move forward, be active, be visible – receives a decent budget. if we want to deliver on these topics, we need a decent budget for modernisation. thank you for fighting for that. this is crucial for us. mesdames et messieurs les députés, les six mois de la présidence croate seront également cruciaux pour réussir la transition climatique et écologique. nous n’avons plus besoin de parler de l’urgence et de l’obligation d’agir. nous devons passer maintenant à l’action et mettre en œuvre notre pacte vert pour l’europe. le travail commence aujourd’hui. à l’issue de ce débat, le collège discutera du plan d’investissement pour le pacte vert et du mécanisme pour une transition juste. avec ce nouveau mécanisme nous donnerons la priorité aux secteurs et aux régions qui seront confrontés aux plus grands défis et qui doivent fournir de plus grands efforts. je sais que c’est un point important pour la croatie et pour beaucoup d’autres. dès que les propositions seront approuvées par le collège, les vice-présidents timmermans et dombrovskis seront ici en plénière pour vous présenter tous les détails. je compte sur la présidence croate pour avancer sur ce dossier et sur tous ceux qui suivront dans les semaines et les mois à venir. meine damen und herren abgeordnete! ich möchte abschließen mit den worten einer kroatischen schriftstellerin, die als erste frau professionelle journalistin in kroatien war, marija zagorka. sie schrieb einmal: „wo einheit ist, ist freiheit.“ und das war schon immer so in europa. wo es einheit gibt – und die europäische besonderheit ist, dass es freiwillige einheit ist –, da gibt es freiheit, und da gibt es auch kraft. ich bin davon überzeugt, dass die kroatische präsidentschaft eine präsidentschaft der einheit sein wird, eine präsidentschaft der stärke für europa sein wird, eine präsidentschaft, die unsere institutionen voranbringen wird bei dem aufbau – wie ihr es in eurem präsidentschaftsmotto nennt – eines stärkeren europas in einer herausfordernden welt. (beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, welcome andrej plenković and welcome croatia in the european parliament. it is good to have you here, and having listened to ursula von der leyen’s explanation describing your story, the plenković story in a way, i think it is great to hear and for a lot of meps here in this room it is a strong motivation to hear this story. i want to add another story because we have a vice—president of the european commission sitting next to ursula von der leyen, the croatian commissioner who has a similar story: being elected as a member of the european parliament and now sitting in such an important role. so, that is a great symbol for what the croatian presidency means for the european union and also for us as members of the european parliament. the croatian presidency is a great start for this decade because croatia is the youngest member of the european union. and first of all, the croatian people showed that being a member is in the interest of the country. so that is what you showed them the last years as a member of the european union. for example, after 2013 the country came out of a long recession, and almost 70% of all croatia’s exports go to the european union and almost 3 000 croatian smes can now benefit from the eu investment plan. so there are a few examples of this success story and that’s why it is great to have croatia now in the lead. we see in croatia also see the beauty of europe: on the one hand the roman heritage in split, the austrian hungarian empire’s influence in zagreb, the venetian architecture in dubrovnik. so croatia is in a way a good mirror for the european culture. and probably what the prime minister underlined in his speech: the most important thing for today is that croatia is today an independent nation, not anymore part of any kind of empire. today croatia is an independent nation, part of a family, respected as an equal partner on the european level. this strong european vision is also reflected in your programme. a europe that gives an answer to the world’s challenges. this is your motto, and in today’s political and social turmoil, no single member state stands a chance alone. the croatian programme pinpoints all the critical challenges: climate change, transport, connectivity, enlargement, global relevance, digital revolution and the safety of our citizens. the key to face these challenges is in front of us, and that means unity. it was already also mentioned by ursula von der leyen. and i want to describe a little bit what we mean with unity. unity for us means no first and second—class citizens in the european union. so, for example, if croatia wants to join the schengen area, if croatia wants to be a member of the euro area, then they have the full support of us as the european people’s party. unity means to give a european perspective to the western balkans, several times already mentioned. we are aware that the decision of the european council was a short—sighted decision to not opening the accession talks with albania and north macedonia. i, as an epp representative, am proud that all epp governments in council are supporting it and that’s why i hope that socialists will speak with the danish friends and our renew colleagues will speak with the dutch and also with the french colleagues to open this path for north macedonia and albania to become members of the european union. unity means for us, ‘one for all, all for one’ on the global stage. we experienced in the last two weeks, the developments in the middle east and we were close to a real military escalation in the last days. and – yes – the weapons were extremely loud in these days, but we can show together we speak louder than any weapon if we activate the strength of the whole european union. and for us the first two weeks of this decade are a kind of a wakeup call that we have to strengthen now systematically the capacity of the european union. to go further with a military pillar for the european union and we have to put an end to unanimity in the decision—making process in the field of foreign affairs. we have to come to a majority making decisions; we have to bring the european voice to the global level. unity means for us also on brexit: our club, our rules. andrej, you referred to the eurosceptic parties in all our member states. nobody wants to punish our british friends in any way, some would say so, but it must be clear when you are not any more a member of the european union, you’re losing the advantages of the club. if this is not clear then we will face a lot of problems to convince our citizens that it is better to stay inside of the european union. that is a challenging development ahead of us, but we have to be clear. and finally on the mff, the budget must deliver. first, let’s talk about tasks. if we establish a strong border protection then europeans as a whole will be safer. and if we invest in research and innovation, then it will be better for all europeans. so, let’s stop the debate about net—payers and contributors and so on. let’s talk about the task which we have ahead of us and new tasks means for us also fresh money for the european union. these are the challenges for the croatian presidency ahead of us. but it is time now that the youngest member will show the lead, that not only the old – and probably big – countries will show leadership. now the youngest country can give us the proof that there is a future. and you know you can always count on your epp group to say it, in croatian, svi smo s vama.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr plenković, we are pleased to welcome you back to the european parliament and we hope that your experience in this house will contribute to the success of the croatian presidency. we are aware that we are going through a period of upheaval and challenges. in the wake of recent events in the middle east, we welcome your commitment to strengthening multilateralism and your intention to work closely with the high representative to ensure that the european union speaks with one voice in the international arena. we also support its commitment to the enlargement policy and to the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. one of the priorities of its programme is entitled 'a europe that protects', and under this heading we would have liked a broader approach, recognising the opportunity that migration represents to tackle the demographic challenge and to maintain the welfare state. yes, mr plenković, we need a europe that protects. but a europe that protects also means a europe that protects solidarity and the rule of law. a europe that protects also has to address the integration of refugees and migrants into our societies with humanity. a europe that protects also means protecting union citizens against exclusion, unemployment or discrimination on grounds of gender. we are therefore asking for greater ambition in building the social europe we need. let's be honest with each other, mr. plenković. the organisation of conferences alone will not be able to address issues such as the gender pay gap, gender violence and child poverty. we agree that competitiveness, innovation, productivity and lifelong learning need to be boosted, but we need a real action plan to implement the european social pillar and social rights. for this reason, we regret that your programme does not explicitly mention the minimum wage, the child guarantee or a real plan to combat poverty and we hope and offer our cooperation to be able to include these actions during your presidency. with regard to the reform of monetary union, we also think that the non-inclusion of unemployment insurance among the priorities is not acceptable. it is a key instrument which enables us to protect citizens in times of crisis. let us learn from the lessons of the last crises and not resign ourselves to legislating in areas where it is possible to legislate. we support your commitment to reaching agreement on the new financial framework, but let me be clear. we hope that your presidency will put forward a proposal on the same footing as that put forward by this european parliament. we have said many times: we cannot do more with less. we said it. and we want to meet the goals of our ambitious agenda. we need a triangular approach, a higher contribution of gross national income to the community budget, a proposal for own resources and the promotion of national investments through a reform of taxation rules. for the latter, we will advocate the incorporation of a new golden rule in the stability and growth pact that encourages sustainable investment in the member states. we cannot frustrate the expectations of the european citizenry with empty promises. projects with the ambition of the european green deal require adequate funding. so i don't want to hide from you our family's disappointment at the absence in your program of the sustainable investment plan and the just transition fund. the programme also ignores the commitment made by the european commission to include the sustainable development goals in the european semester. it's not too late, mr plenković. the socialist family expects your presidency to display the same ambition as the european commission's work programme, and the same ambition as this house, in the face of the challenges ahead. if you are willing, you can count on the support of our group to work for the ecological, social and economic change that europe needs.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear prime minister plenković, this will be croatia’s first presidency of the council since joining the european union in 2013. it is a proud moment for you, prime minister, and for your country, but it’s also a challenge. i saw that you have already brought such energy and a fresh approach to your first presidency. i fully understand that you want to be, as soon as possible, in our union’s inner circle in the schengen area and also in the euro zone. i think that any country willing to integrate into the schengen area and to share our common currency should be able to do so as soon as all criteria are fulfilled. our priority is not only to make sure europe is renewed so it works for our citizens, but we must make sure that the european union continues to be an appealing organisation for new members to join. the conference on the future of europe will play a key role, giving also a new prospective for enlargement in a renewed europe. i am confident that, over the coming months, the eu will send a positive message to the western balkans and the zagreb summit should play a key role in this and should be the signal. colleagues, the migration crisis of 2015 and 2016 has had a deep impact on many of our countries. we discovered our migration and asylum systems are not fit for purpose. we need to move forward. today, my group, the renew europe group, will launch a plan with some new ideas in order to fix the system for the next decade. it is time to make progress without waiting for the next crisis and i hope, mr president, that your presidency will be inspired by our ideas. prime minister, i know you will agree with me that immigration and the demographic challenges need greater recognition and actions. i am pleased to have raised this issue in your presidency. regarding the multiannual financial framework (mff), the croatian presidency will be critical in the process leading to the adoption of mff and own resources packages. i hope you hear the message of parliament for a strong budget and especially for a new approach regarding own resources. we need a strong budget that matches our political priorities. in addition, i would like to thank you and mr charles michel in particular, for your work on libya and the situation in iraq and iran. we need to be alert and actively contribute to the peaceful settlement of tensions and conflicts. we really need a strong european voice in the world and you take up your responsibilities at a time when our role is clearly challenged in this area. a common position and unity is key if you are to put our future into our own hands. mr prime minister, i wish you all the best for your presidency and you can be assured that, in taking up these challenges, you will have a partner in renew europe.
the honorable chairman. andrej plenković, former colleague, welcome back, it's good to see you back in the european parliament. let me begin by congratulating croatia on its assumption of the presidency and wishing it much success in the next six months. europe faces a whole range of challenges and i would like to focus on the multiannual financial framework. i want a new member state, a country that knows exactly what agricultural resources and cohesion resources mean, to place great emphasis on ensuring that the policies that ensure the balanced development of europe and that stop internal migration within the european union can continue in the years to come. i'm also working on a smart village project, which is about developing and connecting digitization, environmental challenges, economic challenges, and allowing people to have jobs where they were born. i wish you the best of luck and i'm volunteering to work with you.
madam president, prime minister plenković, this is the first time that croatia is holding the six-monthly presidency of the european union, and we welcome you with our best wishes. but at the same time, let us stress that this is an opportunity, which cannot be missed, to make a difference in the face of the poor prognoses that the multiannual financial framework announces for regional and cohesion policy, which must remain an absolute priority, compatible with the green deal. i also stress the importance of ensuring citizens' rights, with reciprocity, and restoring the importance that the area of freedom, justice and security deserves, in the context of brexit, which will be completed under your presidency - the first to coincide with a fully effective commission since your inauguration. because it is true that the uk has opted out of many policies. but it is essential to define in the future agreement what the role of the united kingdom is going to be in cooperation, in security, in data protection - because there have been breaches of the principle of preserving data protection by the united kingdom, transferring it to third countries - at the same time as in schengen, restoring the principle that, without any doubt, the newly acceding countries, including your own, have full right to be part of the free movement of persons.
president of the commission. – mr president, i want to refer to the three topics that have been raised the most here. the first one is our budget and the mff, the second one is brexit and the third one is the western balkans. first of all, where the budget is concerned, i think, dear prime minister, it is very important that croatia and the presidency convinces the council to stick to its own strategic agenda, because – and i’m emphasising this – we need the modernisation of the budget, why this? the budget we have right now was agreed in 2013. you remember the year 2013 because it was the year when croatia joined the european union. the world was completely different. in the year 2013, we did not have any idea of daesh. it existed already but we didn’t know anything of it. there hadn’t been the migration crisis yet. russia had not annexed crimea and had not yet started the hybrid war in the ukraine. at that time, we had no paris climate agreement. we were not speaking of 5g or artificial intelligence. these few highlights show that the world is completely different and that we do need a completely different budget – that means modernisation. one message from my part, and i think i have the support of the parliament on this: if the overall ceiling is too low, if the budget in itself is too small, the only way out is our own new resources at european level. (applause)there is an opportunity to introduce that with an emission trading system. the revenues of the emission trading system will grow, so we will not take anything away from the member states. on the contrary, they’ll have more. but we can also allocate at european level the revenues from the emission trading system to serve the european green deal. the second topic is brexit. your presidency comes at a crucial time for the brexit negotiations because we have to make enormous progress. this is decisive until the summer, until the end of your presidency, and here we have to decide on – or it’s the uk’s choice to decide on – how close or how distant they want to be from the european union, but that also means from the single market. in other terms, you cannot have no free movement for people and then expect to have free movement for goods, capital and services. it’s either all four have free movement or none of this is possible. you cannot accept to have a level playing field if there’s a huge divergence in taxation or social standards or environmental standards. so it is the choice of the uk how far they want to align or diverge, but this is decisive for how good access to the single market will be or not. in short, it’s the old proverb: you cannot have your cake and eat it at the same time. and the very last point, the western balkans. ich glaube, beim thema des westbalkans dürfen wir eines nicht unterschätzen: es ist in unserem strategischen interesse, dass der westbalkan so nah wie möglich bei uns ist. wir sollten nicht unterschätzen, wie stark china bereits präsent ist, wie stark russland dort präsent ist, wie stark die türkei dort präsent ist – alle mit der intention, den westbalkan und die staaten des westbalkans so stark wie irgendwie möglich auf ihre seite zu ziehen. es ist in unserem interesse, sie so nah wie möglich an uns heranzuführen, und deshalb mit dem blick auf nordmazedonien und albanien: wir haben viel von ihnen verlangt. nordmazedonien musste seinen namen wechseln, um die möglichkeit zu haben, die beitrittsgespräche mit der europäischen union zu eröffnen. und ich glaube, wir können es schaffen, einerseits den beitrittsprozess zu modernisieren, aber andererseits auch treu im wort zu bleiben zu dem, was wir nordmazedonien und albanien gesagt haben. es ist in unserem interesse, und in diesem sinne wünsche ich ihnen alles gute für den vorsitz.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first of all thank you for the many reactions, many suggestions, many different points of view on the current priorities of the croatian presidency, but also on some ideas how you believe we should tackle the most important political and legislative dossiers which are on the agenda. let me say a few points at the end in order to try to collectively touch on some of the matters that you have raised. first of all, what is the philosophy of our first ever presidency of the council? we are a bit of a symbol and a signal, as i said at the beginning. only 30 years of democracy, 28 years of international recognition, seventh year of membership. still catching up with those who are more developed; those who were in the union from the start, or those who joined, like our neighbours from central and eastern europe, in 2004 and 2007. one of the meps, mr krach, i think, mentioned the first croatian president tuđman, and tried to interpret his doctrine. i dare to say that i might know a little bit better what is the legacy of the first croatian president, and what he wanted for croatia once we gained our sovereignty for the future and the perspective. it was actually he, 30 years ago on 30 may in the first democratically—composed croatian parliament, who said that european integration is the way to go, and everything we have done in the last three decades has been the implementation of this objective. we know what sovereignty means. we know what it means unlike any other country which is present in this hemicycle. what it means to have occupied territory. what it means to have a war on your territory. what it means to have more than 16 000 people killed in your own country, almost at the end of the 20th century. that experience remains vivid and we know that europe is a project of peace and cooperation and reconciliation. that’s how we address our political responsibility today. this is very important to know. second, we have taken into account the strategic agenda, the trio programme, the programme of the new commission and our own programme. everything that we have put as priorities is very realistic. therefore, on some of the items, we know that climate change and the climate neutral objective until 2015 will be the driver of our economic transformation. it will become for our economy what embedded human rights are for our foreign policy. this is what we agreed with the commission in zagreb last week. we should help to address this issue so as to take into account the different state of play of our industries, our financial capability, our budgetary capabilities, in order to go in the same direction but not to have negative economic consequences. secondly, on the dossier of migration, which many of you have mentioned, i will say once again – and repeat this with full understanding – that this is crucially what we must do in the months ahead of us. we had the arrangement with turkey that has managed to put down the numbers of illegal migration on the eastern mediterranean and western balkans route, compared to 2015-2016 data, by 98% – 98% down. these are the numbers we have now compared to 5 years ago, to only 2%. how should we tackle this? jointly. we speak about a frontex of ten thousand border police. my country proportionally perhaps has more border police than any other – 6 500. i hear some statements and allegations, which in the reports you read, or the rumours you hear, are almost to become effect. they are not. whenever there was an allegation, there was an investigation. there were some disciplinary measures. there is strong surveillance within our police to prevent any violation of human rights, or any behaviour which would contravene our own law, european standards or international conventions. this is how we should behave. but i repeat, once again, unlike many other member states, we have said no barbed wire between two friendly, neighbouring countries such as croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, and we will not erect fences between nations which are friendly, which will always be together as we were together in the past. moreover we said clearly we will not erect fences between parts of the bosnian herzegovina border where croats live as constituent people in bosnia and herzegovina and croats on the other side of the border. this will simply not happen. this is our policy and we will stay behind it. but what we want to do is jointly address the problem either at the source, or at the first point of entry. the croatian—bosnian herzegovina border is not the first point of entry of migratory waves. let’s be very clear about it. this is important to note. on the budget, the stakes are high. we understood the message ‘we can’t do more with less finance available’. that’s very clear. but we need to find a common consensus if we are to embark on the new own resources. by many analysis, by many reports by very able people in a number of years behind us, this might seem the only way to address, as ursula says, the modernisation expectations of what we can finance jointly – this is key. on demography, if there is one political element which i would like to leave as a legacy of croatia in this six months – and also together with the commission, given that dubrovka has this portfolio for first time ever in the history of the european union – it is this, which we feel to be an existential question for the european union. for almost half of our member states who have negative natural growth, such as my country, i think there is a need for a set of tools with the great sensitiveness of the president of the commission who knows in her previous roles how important this issue is, how we can combine policy measures which have proved to be efficient in other countries, how we can offer them to those that have difficulty. this is the idea – the population is moving from less developed countries to more developed, from rural areas to urban areas. these are our common problems and we should address them jointly. on the western balkans and the issue of enlargement, we are not naive. we are not unrealistic. i know more perhaps than anybody, since i’ve been dealing with this issue for almost 30 years, that the level of enthusiasm that the west with open hands offered to the central and eastern european countries in the 90s will never happen again, to those who would like to join. but what we need to do, is intelligently to structure the process for the next ten years. to steer this process, to pilot it. to give an ambitious agenda for those who want to reform, transform and attain the standards that we have in the european union. this is the idea behind the summit that we want to organise in zagreb, and therefore i say for those who are afraid of saying ‘yes’ to the opening of the intergovernmental conference with albania and north macedonia, we know it’s a complex legal process with so many possibilities to either suspend or to reverse or to ask more or to build another requirement of this exercise. it is just a start of a marathon. it’s not a senseless fuite en avant. we have to be clear about it. enlargement doesn’t happen overnight, it happens after years of long reform process and careful scrutiny by the commission and the input of the member states. in that respect i don’t want any of the countries in our neighbourhood to be forgotten, especially bosnia-herzegovina which is strategic for my country. i will also mention ukraine, because you mentioned it ursula now. i think in the context of the eastern partnership and everything we dealt with from 2013 and 2014 until now, we should adequately address their own ambitions for territorial integrity, but also for reforms in the european perspective which we should support. one word on brexit. i see that michel is here and this topic is just after our debate. i think the most important element in the last three and a half years, was the unity of the 27. we remain united with full solidarity extended especially to the most concerned countries such as ireland. in the 11 months ahead of us, with an intelligently drafted and crafted negotiated framework, i think we can attain a good agreement as a starting point for future relations. we should not pretend that in an unprecedented situation we can solve with the first contractual relations everything we’d like to do in the future, after the divorce that is happening literally in three weeks’ time. therefore we will help you, as the council, on the proposal of the commission, to find the right balance for completion in the months to come. finally, i just want to reiterate that all of our services, all of our ministers, government, meps who are here – and i thank them for their contributions – will be at your disposal to have a good dialogue together and to reach compromises. this is one of the objectives of european democracy. this is the role of the european parliament. this is the role of the member states within the council and also the facilitating and leadership role that the european commission has. i thank you very much, mr president, for this opportunity and for having been with you here today in strasbourg. as many of you have said, my friends, this parliament is a very dear institution to me. (loud applause)
thank you to prime minister plenković. i wish him well for his work and i wish his entire government team well in this important period for the european union. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i would like to congratulate croatia on its first presidency and wish it a successful and productive six-month term. it's going to be a very tense and rather difficult time. the approaching 'brexit' and, of course, the most important challenge ahead is the multiannual financial perspective. croatia, like my country lithuania in 2013, is starting its presidency with a big challenge to reach an agreement on the next multiannual financial perspective. with time running out and positions very different, it will be necessary to continue constructive negotiations with the member states to reach an agreement in the common european interest and solidarity on a socially responsible budget capable of responding to the ever-growing challenges. social europe and people must be a budgetary priority. i want to remind you that today, even those who are already working are increasingly at risk of poverty, not to mention the more than 20 million children living in poverty. new and very important initiatives such as the european child guarantee and the youth guarantee will need sufficient funding to make a real contribution to poverty reduction and to give young people the opportunity to work and earn. i very much hope that we will be able to agree on an ambitious and socially responsible budget during the croatian presidency.
in writing. i wish croatia success in its ambitious programme for the six months of the presidency. let me add a few points! i was surprised you didn't say anything about schengen. specifically, what are you going to do? will you support romania, bulgaria and croatia to join the schengen area, given that they meet all the technical conditions? you have spoken of the development of the single market, but you have said nothing about the economic crime that is crushing and impoverishing it. what will you do to eliminate the networks of crime? you talk about a strong europe, but that cannot be achieved unless all the states are strong. what will you do to eliminate the double treatment of member states? what will you do about the mobility package in the council, which will exclude eastern carriers and which will fragment the internal market and discriminate against european entrepreneurs? and, last but not least, i cannot help but ask you what is your proposal for the eastern partnership? the western balkans are important, as are the member states and the eastern partnership. i wish you success and hope you will support measures that bring cohesion, security and unity to the eu.
in writing. the ecr group supports the lines of action presented by the croatian presidency to further deepen the internal market. i appreciate the inclusion in the priorities of the croatian presidency of the reference to services and the digital economy and their role in increasing the eu's global competitiveness. in my view, there are trends away from the idea of liberalising the internal market, particularly in the road transport sector. i fully agree with the priority of the croatian presidency to protect the financial interests of the eu and its member states. as an example of this activity, poland is particularly effective in combating vat fraud. the polish government has initiated an eu-wide coalition to combat tax fraud. i also support the plans of the croatian presidency to accelerate the enlargement process towards the western balkans and to maintain the eu's credibility in the region. i expect a positive decision on the opening of accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia at the march european council. at the same time, i welcome the fact that croatia has included the eastern partnership in its priorities. i will pursue an ambitious agenda for the eastern partnership, both politically and financially.
in writing. i would like to draw the attention of the croatian presidency of the council of the eu to the fact that nord stream 2 is not only an economic project, but also one with serious implications for european energy security. the sanctions imposed by the us on the companies involved in the construction of the pipeline are a serious warning about the risks facing the union as a whole by increasing dependence on a single source of gas supply. nord stream 2 will certainly bring profit - if and when completed - to its investors. but i think it will harm a european union caught in the middle of the nord stream - turk stream pipelines, especially the countries on the eastern flank. we see in bucharest and other capitals liberated three decades ago from communism that the appetite for business of some member states takes precedence over the principle of solidarity, which is at the heart of european unity, and over common energy security. in these circumstances, i consider that an urgent analysis of the compatibility of nord stream 2 with eu rules and interests is required. we also need diversification of energy sources and coordinated negotiations between the union and third countries to respond more effectively to the geopolitical challenges posed by access to oil and gas resources.
in writing. i welcome the programme of the croatian presidency launched at the beginning of the year and its priorities. it contains many ideas that are encouraging to me as an mep from the hungarian community in romania. i am referring here to the responses needed to demographic challenges, to bringing regions together, to preserving our european cultural heritage, to putting fundamental rights and the rule of law in a proper common european framework, and not least to launching a debate on the future of europe. i am pleased that the six-month programme is objective and focused. the presidency is in an exceptional position, as we are at the beginning of a new five-year european decision-making cycle. this is an opportunity to rethink, together with citizens, the issues that we owe europeans to resolve at eu level. one such issue is the remedying of the situation of the approximately 10 to 15 per cent of european citizens who belong to one of the indigenous national communities and speak regional or minority languages. the intergroup on indigenous minorities has been re-established in this parliament and its members are happy to cooperate with the croatian presidency. i hope that the programme of the croatian presidency will include the protection of indigenous minorities in europe, alongside the principles of guaranteeing equality, non-discrimination, protection of fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. the uk's exit from the european union will bring about radical changes, many of which we probably don't even expect. the only ones we cannot afford in any form are those relating to the respect of the rights of the 3 million european citizens who are now in the united kingdom. the largest community migration in the last two years has been the romanian community, which today has reached over 400,000 citizens, first in proportion in london, and second nationally, after the poles. the commission must ensure that these people are not discriminated against in the recruitment process, that they are not denied the government loans that students are getting today, that they are not given higher tuition fees and that they are not denied the right to work in the uk after graduation. in recent decades, the community from the rest of the union has contributed massively to the development of the uk, including to the country's budget. for all these people, to deny them these rights would be an injustice, and for britain, a loss both human and economic.
in writing. the european parliament has been highlighting the rights of european citizens throughout the uk-eu negotiations. the european parliament has made it a key demand to guarantee the rights of eu citizens in the uk and uk citizens living in the remaining 27 member states in the midst of change. the withdrawal agreement reached must be at least satisfactory in these respects. eu citizens and uk citizens will continue to be able to reside and move within the territory of the contracting parties during the transitional period. a wide range of other citizens' rights and freedoms will also be preserved, one way or another. there is very little time to negotiate the agreement that will define the future relationship between the eu and the uk. the job will be difficult, but it is necessary to succeed. the rights of citizens have been secured for a short time, but the future is open in many respects. it creates uncertainty for millions of europeans. the united kingdom has already indicated that it does not intend to apply the free movement of persons, at least not to the present extent. i think it is particularly important to note the resolution that any agreement on the future relationship between the eu and the uk should include ambitious provisions on the mobility of persons. we must try to ensure that the uk's departure from the eu creates as few obstacles as possible to people's ability to continue to seek work and study across borders. the right to free movement is an integral part of the freedoms of the internal market and of the rights of citizens.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it’s just last month – ten days into office – that the commission was in this parliament to present the green deal for europe: our answer to the millions of citizens who demand action on the climate and our proposed roadmap to make europe the first climate-neutral bloc in the world by 2050. now, only four weeks later, we are here again with a financial package to back that goal – a european green deal investment plan for all the opportunities that the green transition offers and a just transition mechanism, which is our pledge of solidarity and fairness for those who face the deepest challenge to make this journey with us. valdis will talk about the european green deal investment plan. but let me start with the just transition mechanism. what we’re doing here is sending a message to coal miners in asturias, western macedonia or silesia, to peat harvesters in the irish midlands, baltic regions reliant on oil shale and many more. we know that you face a steeper path towards climate neutrality and we know that the prospect of a different future – a cleaner one – might be a welcoming prospect in general, but the road to it looks daunting today. this just transition mechanism, of at least eur 100 billion, is a pledge that the european union stands with you in this transition. we propose three pillars to do this: first eur 7.5 billion of fresh european money on top of what the commission proposed for the future eu budget in our just transition fund. this will generate eur 30 to 50 billion of investment – money that can be used for workers to learn new skills for jobs of the future, support for businesses to bring new employment opportunities, investments in clean energy and repurposing of industrial facilities to prepare the ground for new activities. second, we will offer dedicated access to europe’s investment programme, investeu, especially for the just transition. this will mobilise private funds for a total up to eur 45 billion to help regions bring new sustainable businesses to replace the polluting ones and put new skills to use. wherever industries want to contribute to climate neutrality, we will help with investments to move to new technologies and preserve jobs. and thirdly, special loans from the eib (the european investment bank), backed by the eu budget, for local authorities’ regions and public agencies to fund green projects – to help people insulate their homes, for instance. affordable loans will even help bring modern heating services to the most vulnerable families who rely on coal or wood to keep themselves warm in winter. we know that the most affected regions are searching for good ideas and need extra help with projects, so we will deliver project support and bring all regional experiences together in our just transition platform. today’s proposal is very urgent. this parliament knows it as it is the auctor intellectualis of this idea. you have come up with the idea of a just transition fund. we also expect the council to accommodate it in the negotiations on the next seven-year budget for europe and call for a swift adoption. we invite member states to identify the regions that need the money and our practical support and to work with the commission on a concrete plan for change. this will be a collective effort involving regions, local governments, social partners, industries and civil society. everyone must be involved. this change will be locally owned so that our citizens can support it. we know that these eur 100 billion are a start. fairness goes far beyond this mechanism alone. climate change will touch the social foundations of our society. renewable energy, green jobs, clean air to breathe and fresh water to drink. these are the wealth items of tomorrow. everyone, especially the most vulnerable, should reap benefits from this change. fairness will inspire all our proposals under the green deal. we want cars that are clean and affordable, help for people to insulate their homes and green jobs with the minimum wage for a decent living. we want to cut the unacceptable 400 000 premature deaths from the poisonous fumes in our cities and regions. we have the skills, brains and technology to deliver our green deal. today, we renew our pledge to do that with our heart and leave no one behind.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the european green deal sets out our ambition to make europe the first climate—neutral continent by 2050. we have no choice. we must succeed. this is something we owe to our citizens and to the next generations. the sustainable europe investment plan or european green deal investment plan, adopted by the commission today, fills this commitment with life and with much—needed financing. the strength and novelty of this plan is that it brings together new policy initiatives and existing instruments. we are sending a clear signal to public authorities, companies and investors that we need to think green when we invest. let me outline the three pillars of our plan. first comes funding. the plan will mobilise at least eur 1 trillion of sustainable investments over the next decade. the eu budget, with its 25% climate mainstreaming target, will add up to around half of this amount. we will also use leverage. through investeu, we will mobilise some eur 279 billion of public and private funds for climate- and environmentally—friendly investments, so the greener budget eu will lead by example. national co—financing for green projects accounts for another eur 114 billion. as frans has just explained, the just transition mechanism will aim to reach eur 100 billion over the next mff. beyond the eu budget, we will also tap the innovation and modernisation funds under the emission trading scheme. i would also outline the eib financing, which aims to raise its share of sustainable financing from 25% to 50% by 2025. second, we are putting forward conditions to enable public authorities and private operators to invest sustainably. clear rules are a powerful incentive. with your support, we recently agreed on taxonomy as a tool to identify our green financial and economic activities. we will now explore how taxonomy can be used not only in the private but also in the public sector. later this year, we will follow it up with a renewed sustainable finance action plan. we will also propose legislation on green public procurement and revise state aid rules in the light of the green deal. third, it’s not all about funds; it’s also about concrete projects. we will provide national administrations and project promoters with expertise to design quality projects and implement them. we will work with the eib and other institutions to align their activities with the green deal objectives. moving to the second part of our debate, which is a roadmap on social europe, i would like to emphasise, as the executive vice—president responsible for economies that work for people, that our green and digital transitions must be just and inclusive. social considerations remain centre stage. both you and the european council have underlined the need to implement the european pillar of social rights. we are committed to it. today’s communication on a strong social europe for just transition is our roadmap to turn the pillar into reality. however, we know that many actions will be taken at national or stakeholder level. that’s why we’re launching the broader debate: to seek views on what more can be done. we want to hear what efforts all partners can commit to in order to make the pillar a reality. today, we are starting to consult our social partners on the needs and possible directions on the eu action for a fair minimum wage. the commission has pledged to present a legal instrument to ensure that workers earn enough to support themselves. to be clear, it’s neither about setting a uniform european minimum wage nor about obliging countries to introduce a statutory minimum wage. national traditions of collective bargaining will be respected. putting economic, environmental and social sustainability at the heart of policy requires a change of mindset. we have taken an important step towards achieving this today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to welcome executive vice-president timmermans and executive vice-president dombrovskis to the european parliament and thank them for presenting these initiatives to us today. on behalf of the group of the european people’s party, i would like to welcome the proposals that you have made today. and i believe that the just transition mechanism and all of the projects that you presented today are essential for the success of two of the most important programmes of the european commission this year: the european green deal and the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. this is why my call is: let’s work fast and let’s agree fast in the next month, in the first half of this year, on the just transition mechanism. because this will unleash the potential of the mff negotiations and it will also enable the success of the european green deal. we have seen in december at the european council that the european green deal will stand or fall with its financing, and my group wishes the european green deal to succeed. that’s why we need to clarify the just transition mechanism as soon as possible. how should the just transition mechanism be? firstly, it should be robust. in terms of volume, there should be enough resources there to really make a difference, to really alleviate the effects of the transition upon the regions the most affected. secondly, it should not affect existing policies: neither cohesion nor agriculture nor research nor innovation. it is an additional priority. it should be financed on top. thirdly, it should have a long-lasting positive impact upon the regions the most affected. this is why, particularly from the just transition fund, i say: let’s invest in economic development, let’s support entrepreneurs, let’s support smes, let’s not just repeat the professional re-qualification courses which have not had long lasting effects in the past. my last point is the conditions. we should allocate money to the countries, to the regions in conditions so that they are accessible to them. we should learn from the experience of efsi and investeu from the past.
the european commission presented us last december with the proposal for the new european green deal, an ambitious proposal that sets out to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. and there is no doubt that this colossal project requires a real, a real transformation of our socioeconomic systems, and also of our way of life. the credibility and success of the european green deal will depend on the funding plans. but it will also depend on how we are able to manage the impact that this transformation will have on our regions, with industrial energy models that require more expensive modernisation. the commission's plans are an important first step. it aims to mobilise €1 trillion over the next decade to ensure that europe becomes the first continent to achieve climate neutrality. the package also calls for the public and private sectors to join forces to stimulate investment. however, the commission itself recognises that the €1 trillion it hopes to mobilise is only a fraction of the investment required to make this ecological transformation. the commission's calculations therefore require rigorous and consistent reflection. and in this sense, the first great challenge makes it imperative to have a debate on how to generate new revenue to deal with this great social, ecological and economic transformation. the social democrats have a very firm position on this. we ask that the multiannual financial framework allocate at least 30% to the fight against climate change. but we also need to talk about own resources, which include non-recycled plastic packaging waste, the eu emissions trading system, fair taxation of the digital sector, a financial transaction tax and the common consolidated corporate tax base. we need to talk about these own resources. and on the other hand, we demand that member states benefit from a wider margin of manoeuvre in their national budgets to stimulate sustainable investment. and to make the latter a reality, we propose a reform of the tax rules so that sustainable investments are exempted from the calculation of the debt deficit under the stability and growth pact. and the second big challenge is a just transition, where no one is left behind. and "no one left behind" is not just a slogan. it means providing the just transition fund with additional financial resources so as not to reduce cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy; it means boosting learning skills to enable future generations to successfully tackle the ecological and digital transformation; and it also means ensuring decent working conditions to close the wage gap and fight child poverty. ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to put europe at the forefront of the fight against climate change, but we need to work and commit ourselves also from a financial point of view.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, far too often the european union has been criticised for adopting strategies but lacking the instruments to implement them. in other cases, it has various tools, but there is no vision by which to encompass these tools and direct them towards a greater purpose. today we start 2020 by putting together, in a debate, different instruments, but serving the same purpose, for a long-term, ambitious vision, related to the green deal, the green deal, that is clearly citizen-oriented. the message that my political group, renew europe, is advocating is that citizens should remember, after this debate, that the european union proposes to turn the challenges of the environment and climate change into opportunities for the development of an inclusive society with new skills, better jobs and economic growth. i am particularly focusing on citizens in vulnerable regions such as the jiu valley or gorj, the most important mining areas in romania, who will emerge from poverty and have a modern and prosperous society, a digitalised industry and a clean circular economy through this just transition. a just transition means that we succeed in creating jobs and opportunities, that we develop the youth guarantee, that member states invest in education and training methods for skills and re-skilling, that we involve private actors and small and medium-sized enterprises to support digital technologies and vocational education. we have over 100 billion euros for this purpose and i don't see why we stop at making this really just transition, to meet the roadmap of the green deal. i call on the government of romania and all eu member states to use these instruments and focus on investing in the most important resource of the european continent: the citizens. only then will we be able to take the first steps towards a genuine roadmap for a social europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for the insight, for the opening you've given here today. however, it is not much more than that. and that's why i say, in view of the challenges that we have in front of us now, we have to get out of this headline mode, we have to get out of this cloudy and flowery mode. because the election campaign is over - and so are you, mr timmermans! and that is why it is so important that we not only remain in the dark, but also make a very concrete statement on the way forward, including in the field of social europe. i want to say very clearly, with regard to the just transition fund, which i expressly welcome, what must not happen. what cannot happen is that existing budget titles are simply rearranged and that we suddenly start putting funds from the esf into the just transition fund, for example. the effect is that we are playing off the people who work in industries whose very existence is threatened by the transformation of climate change, against, for example, the longterm unemployed, who have very different problems. we must not play the victims against the weak in our society, but if we are serious and say: 'climate change and the fight against climate change must not lead to disruptive developments and structural breakdowns', then we must generate additional money and not simply shovel the money from the left pocket into the right pocket.
madam president, from what we are hearing today, there is still scepticism from people on whether climate change and inequalities can be addressed together. i think the fact that we are discussing precisely this point today – a just transition and a sustainable investment plan – is proof that, yes, climate change and inequalities can be addressed together if there is the will to do so. with the european green deal, we want to make europe a front—runner in climate—friendly industries but, at the same time, i am sure that climate action benefits the most vulnerable and does not leave low—income households behind. yes, we recognise that workers in carbon—intensive activities need the required protection to be able to benefit from this transition because, ultimately, the jobs of tomorrow will require different skills and we need to make sure that our current workforce adapts, while the future workforce is prepared for these jobs. at the same time, green practices, goods and services should never be out of reach for the least well-off. i believe that we require an inclusive just transition based on three main pillars: participation, support and creation. participation of affected workers and communities in planning and advancing climate action; support through targeted financial programmes and capacity building that prioritises the most vulnerable; and creation of high-quality and sustainable jobs and strong social measures, including reskilling and upskilling of workers. this is the opportunity that we have in front of us. given the right financing and the right policies, this will be our opportunity to create new jobs in a new economic reality.
madam president, i don't think there is a barrier in the east's attitude towards the european green deal. in many ways, eastern european societies are well placed to talk about ecology. these societies have kept a stronger connection to nature, have maintained short supply routes, have gone through deindustrialization in many regions. the fight against deforestation and polluting mining is, for example, highly mobilizing for civil society in romania. many countries in the east have made efforts to achieve their targets for the share of renewable energy. of the 14 member states that exceed the community average, 7 are in eastern europe. it's proof that we can have clear environmental goals, but we have to find the right formula: funding, project implementation assistance, recognition of the importance of the energy mix. we must take the green turn in a smart way and not fuel eurosceptic positions.
in writing. let's not forget that behind the green deal are people. they're always the most important. i'm talking about a silent and invisible killer. the pollution! i'm a doctor, and i treat people affected by pollution every day. what is needed is a green revolution, new public health and social policies implemented at european level and delivered through the just transition fund. i have proposed today a mechanism to enable this. in particular: 1. ensuring appropriate funding based on impact studies; 2. european assistance in the implementation of these projects; 3. priority financing of romania by the european investment bank - the most vulnerable regions (jiu valley and oltenia); 4. the introduction of the european minimum wage; 5. the supplementing of the cohesion funds so necessary for development. and last but not least, two less expensive but extremely effective solutions: 1. a european-wide ban on deforestation during this mandate. my bill for the same is on the agenda of the chamber of deputies in the romanian parliament and i don't see why it couldn't be passed; 2. the introduction of environmental education at european level. unity in diversity, the motto of the european union, must also mean health and solidarity for all european citizens.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure ms. hahn, you said that the assassination of soleimani was a barbaric act. do you consider that too little to liquidate a terrorist? is he a terrorist, according to you, soleimani or not?
madam president, regarding the iran-us dispute, we need to start from the truth. the truth is that general soleimani was one of the organizers of the attack on the embassy in tehran and was executed on iraqi soil, where he carried out the terrorist act. as far as we're concerned, it's a general belief that we have to do whatever it takes to keep the nuclear deal. i want to make my point: iran will not abide by the nuclear deal, and we will remain in solidarity with a terrorist power in tehran. we're counting on our solidarity. i don't know if we can stay together until the end, with a terrorist government as our partner in this nuclear deal.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, vice-president borrell, i too would like to congratulate our colleague rapporteur. it's a very good report and it shows very clearly that the european union is making considerable efforts to defend human rights and democracy around the world. i would like to limit myself to a fundamental right that our societies hold dear and that makes us unique and extremely influential in the world, and that is the right to free speech. mr. vice president borrell, i am asking the foreign service to do more to defend freedom of speech in the states in our immediate neighborhood. it is unacceptable that, in a new neighbouring country, turkey, hundreds of media outlets are still closed, thousands of journalists are fired, some of them are unjustly detained and arrested. it's important that we act because the right to free speech is a fundamental right in a democracy.
madam president, the mcallister report, like the danjean report, is an excellent guide to moving forward, to creating the vision we need to give the answers we cannot find today. i shall refer to the danjean report, however, mainly because it presents a vision rather than a vision, given that defence is a specific area and is at the heart of the national sovereignty of the member states. in the field of defence, member states have a strong mandate and do not share a common understanding of european defence. member states have strategic differences, for example: there is no common perception of threats, there is a wide range of views on the use of military force and there is also no common vision on the role of the eu army. the international institute for strategic studies estimates that some 350 billion euros would be needed to eliminate the capability gap in a scenario where europe would have to defend itself without us military capabilities... (president withdrew the speaker)
madam president, the regime of nicolás maduro has been systematically violating the venezuelan constitution in a repeated fashion. the most recent episode, perpetrated by a lightning operation and, as has been said here, without a quorum, has given the presidency of the national assembly, legitimately occupied by juan guaidó, to the chavista deputy luis parra, a supporter of the maduro dictatorship. the disrespect for the basic principles of democracy, blatantly and in plain sight, is responsible for the suffering of many venezuelans. this parliament has already made this clear in several resolutions and debates, where it has expressed its support for juan guaidó and the legitimate and democratically elected national assembly, and has condemned this form of usurpation of power. we also strongly condemn the serious violations that have been taking place for too long, for too long, by maduro, his regime and his allies. it is deplorable to see continuing threats, torture, arbitrary decisions against members of the national assembly. let me just say, madam president, that i regret the intervention of mrs sandra pereira, who has just mentioned - and i have even pointed out - that it is a delusion, a farce and external interference. tell that to the suffering venezuelan people and to those left-wing parties who support the government solution in portugal, that they should stop systematically turning a blind eye. it is a situation which is an unfortunate reality. my solidarity, our solidarity, at this moment to all the venezuelan people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, only a few days ago we witnessed yet another act of violence and oppression by maduro, who, with his regime, has condemned a people who live in one of the richest places on earth to hunger, exodus and death from common diseases. i want to give four numbers. the first: four and a half million are venezuelan refugees who have already left the country; 11 is the average weight loss of venezuelans in 2017; 85 is the percentage of medicines that are impossible or difficult to obtain according to the world health organisation; 95 is the percentage of gdp contraction since 2013 according to the international monetary fund. mr high representative, the european union, which cares about democracy, freedom and the lives of venezuelans, must, through its diplomacy and through the sanctions you have announced, force the maduro regime to surrender and support the process towards new democratic elections. a strong signal that must be sent not only to the venezuelan regime but also to its global supporters, first and foremost russia.
madam president, high representative, the crude and violent attempt by the maduro regime to take control of the venezuelan national assembly deserves our most resounding condemnation. your government is responsible for the deepest humanitarian crisis and the worst crisis of coexistence in the history of the country. but overcoming it requires maintaining support for the incumbent president, juan guaidó, recognizing his representatives abroad, supporting a commission of inquiry that assesses the situation on the ground, and continuing to support the efforts of the external action service and the contact group to find a peaceful and democratic way out with free elections, without excluding personalized sanctions for venezuelan authorities involved in fundamental rights violations. maduro must leave power, because the real venezuela left him years ago. he enjoys an opulence and living conditions that isolate him from the poverty and suffering of the citizens who suffer from his dictatorship.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, most of the comments from the many members were responding to our a priori approach. how can we interpret them – so many different things, events, that have been widely broadcast all over the world? for me it’s clear; for our delegation in venezuela it’s clear. we cannot consider the election of the board according to the rules, and we have to continue accepting the fact that juan guaidó is the president of the national assembly of venezuela. this is not going to solve the problem, but at least it is a coherent position from our part. i take note that there is strong division in this parliament about what’s happening in venezuela, but we have to stick to the facts, and the facts for me are clear: juan guaidó is still, for us, president of the national assembly and as a consequence remains the president in charge for calling for elections in venezuela. we will continue to work on that, madam president. thank you for your contributions to the debate.
six motions for resolutions have been received pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 16 january 2020. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the agenda includes the debate on the european parliament's position on the conference on the future of europe (2019/2990 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the project of a conference on the future of europe, which has emerged over the last months and, in particular, to listen to a debate on the parliament’s position. as prime minister plenković told you yesterday, as far as the council is concerned, we are starting work to define our position regarding the establishment of the conference. as you know, the december european council gave us guidance to this effect. we believe that priority should be given to the implementation of the strategic agenda for 2019-2024, agreed in june last year, and to delivering concrete results for the benefit of our citizens. the priorities outlined in the strategic agenda closely echo those raised by our citizens, for instance in the citizen consultations and dialogues. the conference should build on the success of these dialogues over the last two years. yesterday, my prime minister underlined how the conference could be an opportunity to listen to citizens so that we are better able to meet their expectations. we think the conference should contribute to the development of our policies in the medium and long term so that we can better tackle current and future challenges. we also believe the upcoming conference should be an inclusive process, involving our three institutions in full respect of the interinstitutional balance of our respective roles. likewise, member states should equally be involved, including their parliaments. shared ownership is important. the european council asked the croatian presidency to work towards defining a council position on the content, scope, composition and functioning of a conference on the future of europe and to engage on this basis with the european parliament and the commission. we are indeed starting this work and i can announce to you that, today in brussels, ambassadors will have a first informal exchange of views to that end, and that the general affairs council on 28 january will discuss the issue. we will listen to your debate on the parliament’s position and read your resolution attentively. we also look forward to the commission’s input, which we understand will come back next week. thank you very much for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it is an honour to be here today in the heart of european democracy to discuss the conference on the future of europe video. as a previous member of this house, i consider the european parliament as a close friend. today i stand before you, honourable members, still as your friend and now also as your partner in my new role as vice-president for democracy and demography. like you, i know how important citizens are to european policy-making: after all we are making these decisions to their benefit. however, we have not always got that right – this must be acknowledged. now we have an opportunity to reflect with citizens, to listen to them, to connect and engage, to answer and explain, to build trust and confidence in each other between the european union and citizens. this is an important part of what the conference on the future of europe is about. we are at a key moment in european political history and are facing a unique opportunity, as well as a challenge. getting this right will have repercussions, not just for the present but for the future. it is up to us all to make this a success. honourable members, let me be very clear: we are no longer politics as business as usual. the old way of doing politics no longer works. citizens want us to hear them, and we must listen to them and give them the feedback they need. cooperation and courage are the new keywords in this process. we must be brave and find new creative and innovative solutions to make our democracy work even better for citizens. we must do this together as partners: the parliament, the council and the commission. to this end, a joint declaration from all three institutions can pave the way for this unique partnership. but partnership does not stop with these three institutions. member states and their national parliaments must also be involved. their cooperation will be an asset to this process. to ensure we reach every citizen, especially those who do not always engage directly with us, we rely heavily on cooperation with the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee. i am committed to visiting regions in my role as vice-president, and i want to hear from citizens from all corners of the european union. shall we stop here, dear colleagues? certainly not: this is an open process. as the conference progresses, hopefully, others will join us. there are two strands to this process. one on policy, with debates clustered around the themes, including the commission’s political priorities and the european council strategic agenda. the second strand addresses institutional topics such as the election of the president of the commission and transnational lists. here, the role of the commission is that of honest broker. my colleague, vice-president věra jourová, is responsible for following this institutional strand. the european commission will adopt its contribution to the shaping of the conference in its communication on 22 january next week. this communication is the commission’s contribution to the discussion that needs to be held in the coming weeks between the three institutions aimed at agreeing together on the scope, formal structure and objectives of the conference. this would be the content of the joint declaration i referred to earlier. once the general affairs council has discussed the conference on the future of europe on 28 january, we will be able to move to the next phase, including to determine the date for the start of the conference, ideally in the first half of 2020. and what better date for this than 9 may – europe day – which is a date of such importance for all of us? i can already see the potential for a fruitful partnership with the european parliament, given the priorities we share. in his role as vice-president for interinstitutional relations, my colleague maroš šefčovič, will join us in this work. honourable members, as directly-elected representatives of the citizens, you are crucial to this process, and i welcome the resolution of this house, as well as your commitment not to pre-determine the outcome of the conference. i believe that pre-determining the outcome would cause more damage to democracy than if it did nothing at all. so no pre-determining from our side. honourable members, by confirming me in my post as vice-president for democracy and demography, you have shown that you have placed your trust in me. just as it is important to build trust with the citizens, i want to build trust with you, and i look forward to hearing your views. (applause)
ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the council and the commission and before giving the floor to the group chairmen, i should like to make a few remarks, because we have been working on this draft conference on the future of europe for several months and i am naturally very pleased that this debate is taking place today and that parliament is voting today on the resolution which will kick off this process. as you know, the conference was set up at the request of the european parliament, which commission president von der leyen received last july, after the european elections, when it was clear to everyone that certain mechanisms of democratic governance needed to be reviewed and rearranged, and of course we want - this is the view of the whole parliament - that this should be done with the national institutions but above all in a way that is responsive to the citizens. i believe that the resolution which the plenary will be voting on today will be the beginning of a reform season, not predetermined, but certainly of great momentum because we need democracy to work and above all that democracy is useful to the citizens. i believe that this is in the interests of the european institutions but also of the union as a whole. that is why we want this process to be about the people. i believe that today is an important day for this parliament, and that we share this view with all the political groups, in a process of listening, of comparison and of dialogue, of course with all the european institutions. we will succeed if the european institutions can work together. i thank you and i now give the floor to manfred weber, chairman of the people's party.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, madam vice-president and council representative, the starting point for our debate on the conference for the future of europe is the outcome of the elections last year. 201 million people participated in the european elections. the second largest democracy on the globe. that is the starting point for our debate, so people believe in europe; people trust in europe; people want to contribute to the future of europe. the key question is now: does my vote count? does it really have an impact? and there we know an improvement is possible, and that’s why the next decade must be a decade of strengthening european democracy. what are the principles for the working structure for us as the ppe group? the first and most important point already mentioned is people’s involvement. so, to find a way to get in touch with the ideas of our citizens to involve them in the process. the second thing is that parliament is in the lead. that we are the representatives of the citizens. we are representing the political landscape of the european union of today – geographically, politically, from the content point of view. we are representing a parliament where we really respect the free mandate in a very, very positive sense. for me as a group leader, it’s always difficult to manage the unity of the group. we have a real free mandate and that’s good, and we have, together with the commission and council, a good working relationship. first of all i want to underline that with dobrevka as vice-president responsible for the issue, we really can work very strongly together. and another element for these principles is to involve the national parliaments. all of these issues are agreed, but again, the ‘re-parliamentarisation’ of the european union is for our group, a key element. that is the working structure and then about the direction. democracy is based on two principles – on candidates and on a programme. you have this for a mayor, you have this for a chancellor candidate and for us it’s also important to implement this on a european level for becoming the commission president, for example. so the old debates on the spitzenkandidat concept, last year we failed with this idea, it is still our interest as the ppe and we want to make this spitzenkandidat process a binding process for the upcoming elections on the european level. we need a healthy competition between the european parties. that means we have to reflect again on the rules for the european political parties, and we have to consider how to strengthen the rights of this institution – the european parliament – for example on the key issue, the question of right of initiative for the european parliament, like all other parliaments have. so that is what must be the direction for the future. more democratic – people decide. that is the best medicine against the anti-europeans. and finally, are we really prepared for the challenges of tomorrow? what can we do under the current treaty, but also, is there a need for a treaty change? that is another element which we want to discuss during the conference on the future of europe. so let’s start today, let’s work and let’s have a new dream for europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that day began a political adventure, in the world and in history. six countries freely chose to join their destinies to ensure peace and improve the lives of the people. but it was already stated in that declaration that europe would not be built all at once, but in the course of a constant evolution which had to be based on solidarity. it is now up to us to give it a new impetus so that the european union can guarantee peace in europe and in the world, and also improve people's lives. today our union is facing new challenges such as the climate emergency, inequalities, digitalisation. but also, unfortunately, the attacks on the rule of law, the deterioration of the rule of law, and populism. the conference on the future of europe is therefore a unique opportunity, which we cannot afford to miss, to update our union by improving its capacity to meet the challenges. it is also an opportunity to involve citizens, to hear what the people of europe expect and to know their proposals, so that they can also come from all sectors of society. the first major conference on the future of europe was held in the hague in 1948. of course, today we have many more means and mechanisms to facilitate the participation of civil society. and we must take advantage of them. the socialists and democrats want this to be a real dialogue with the citizens and to be translated into concrete results. we will work to ensure that there is broad participation of all society, with a balance of gender, age and geographical origin. and, in addition, with all levels of representation: from the local to the european. because everyone has something to contribute. because there is no europe without each of its towns and cities, which is where the policies we decide here in the european parliament are ultimately implemented. jean monnet said that we are not here to unite states, but to unite people. some seem to be unclear and still insist on speaking in national code. they don't realize that europe adds up. that together we are stronger, and that in an increasingly difficult geopolitical context we need to strengthen our project. and we're not here to build a market either. we want to build a community, which is much more. so it is time to defend european democracy and to remember that we must improve people's lives. for too long the union has neglected the social pillar, and economic policies have not been accompanied by social measures. we've allowed poverty to grow, and we've allowed inequality to grow, and that can only increase populisms. we have made great strides towards a europe of citizens, and we should be proud of that. the lisbon treaty has strengthened the european parliament and, in addition, has introduced new instruments for citizen participation, but it is not enough. i hope that the conference on the future of europe will open up new spaces to enrich the debate and to find innovative ideas to improve our union. we must perfect the electoral system for the next elections in 2024. in these seventy years we have come a long way and, above all, the european family has grown. we started with six countries and we've grown to 28. it is with great sadness that we are dismissing a member, although i hope it is only temporary. let us see this as an opportunity to rethink the european project. looking back to see the road traveled is a necessary exercise. it's also about remembering everything that unites us. but even more important is to be aware that the future is in our hands, that we cannot fall into nostalgia, that we are building europe every day. this is a community of destiny that belongs to all of us, and between all of us we must set the course. the socialists and democrats will do our part to make this european dream a reality.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we often say in this chamber that diversity is an asset of europe. now, once again, we will have the opportunity to demonstrate this. the european elections have shown that european citizens believe in europe, but they want a better, different europe, a renewed europe. the first change must be in the way citizens are involved in these european processes because europe was not created for brussels or for an elite or for a bubble but to serve all citizens. the conference can be a great opportunity to renew europe if we have the courage to move beyond our procedural way of thinking and really give voice to citizens in their diversity. however, over the years we have often allowed the feeling to develop that europe does not listen, that europe means rules and constraints. europe that builds is often hidden behind restrictions. the conference is a chance to open the doors of europe to citizens and it is not for nothing that we have defended the date of 9 may for its launch. we must find ways to involve citizens on a regular basis and not just once every five years for elections. of course, i hear some member states who are worried because they are afraid of losing their responsibilities, but i am convinced that participatory democracy and representative democracy, through the parliamentary process, are complementary and not opposed. ladies and gentlemen, we are giving ourselves two and a half years to present ideas which should not only make the functioning of our institutions more efficient and more readable, but also ensure that our priorities are in line with the expectations of those who want europe to be a real common home. many people already live it this way and i think we have a lot to learn from their way of combining their ties to a specific territory and culture but also from this european sharing since europe is both. this is the last session of our british friends in strasbourg this week, and we have also just celebrated the tenth anniversary of the treaty of lisbon. i am not making a link between the two events, but it is clear that the time has come to refresh europe and to adapt it to today's challenges because without the european bubble syndrome, europe can rebuild itself in its diversity and the european parliament must be the promoter of this new vision.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the conference on the future of europe is an important conference because we do indeed have a great need for reform in the european union. i am concerned about strengthening our parliamentary democracy. and when i say parliamentary democracy, i mean the process of the top candidates. we have talked a lot today about citizenship and how we can involve citizens. i note that since the last european elections, a lot of trust has been lost among citizens. we have over 200 million people who have taken part in the european elections, and our people had a clear expectation that those who run as the leading candidates in these european elections would eventually also take responsibility in the commission. we all know that it's not what happened, and i think if we want to restore the trust of our citizens, we really need to work on reforming this top candidate process. i believe that the heart of democracy here is the european parliament. this is where decisions are made, this is where we have to exchange and discuss. i think it is good that we are broadly involving citizens in the process, but at the end of the day we have to decide in the european parliament. this is our job, and this is what we were elected to do. i would be very pleased if, in the course of the debate, parliamentary democracy in particular, with the right of initiative and the like, were to be strengthened in the same way at the conference on the future of europe.
madam president, commissioner, we want to involve citizens in this conference, but it does not have to be a formal involvement. there is a method of involving citizens in a consistent way - it is called a citizens' jury - and i recommend you, commissioner, to use this method. at the same time, i want to respond to the challenge of my colleague from the green group, niklas nienass. ... (responding to niklas nienass' statements)... dear niklas, i would like guy verhofstadt to lead this conference, i would like to have a strong leader at this conference, and let's do it together. you saw today, at this debate, guy's speech was the most listened to -- maybe the most interesting moment of this debate. even my colleagues in the brexit party, who we will miss very soon, listened intently. we all listened carefully. let's promote guy verhofstadt to the leadership of this conference, so that we have a real debate at european level.
madam president, i come from romania, a country that has suffered from both fascism and communism, and allow me not to thank the red army, as my colleague demirel from the left group said earlier. no thanks to the red army. the red army invaded, did not liberate romania, the red army killed and raped people in romania. this parliament has voted a resolution which points to the molotov-ribbentrop pact as one of the causes of the outbreak of the war. that's right, this pact allowed the nazi regime to invade poland and start the war. part of romania's territory was, at the same time, invaded by the red army. that was an age of bastards, from which we must part. germany has defied the nazi regime, mr. putin is glorifying the communist regime. that's why mr. putin is a bastard. i declare my solidarity with poland in the face of this new rhetorical aggression.
madam president, we have gathered in this debate precisely because president putin is dissatisfied with our work. last year, in a resolution, i condemned the pact between the two tyrants, hitler and stalin, an agreement which culminated in the annexation of the baltic states, the occupation of poland and, of course, my country, romania. by this secret agreement, my country lost territories that were never returned. they don't say this in the textbooks. i am one of those who was born in a territory annexed by the ussr and today, the romanians in bessarabia are subject to this propaganda system that putin defends. i've said it all along to russian politicians, to those in moscow: this propaganda has to stop. their response was to ban me from entering the russian federation. we must continue to fight for the truth, we must fight to keep alive the memory of our ancestors.
on behalf of the renew group. – (start of speech off mike) mr president, i came here with the thought of actually saying that, while we welcome the hearings organised by the council, we are concerned about the lack of involvement of the european parliament and about the next steps in the procedure, and so on, but i really don’t want to talk about procedure. i have changed my mind. i want to talk about the fact that it is a disgrace what you are doing to your own country, mr orbán. it is a disgrace what you are doing to the place that hungary deserves in europe. it’s a disgrace what you are doing to media freedom, to academic freedom, to artistic freedom, to civil society, to all kinds of freedom. you know, nobody made anyone join the european union. it is a choice towards progress and a commitment to european values that your country made and you disrespect this choice. you disrespect it. hungary grew and developed so beautifully using and with the help of european money. so did poland. and now you are literally building empires of hate, of disinformation and of manipulation using european money. you are a disgrace and, by all means, if we don’t have enough procedure then we should make procedure. if we don’t have legislation then we should make legislation, and take every measure needed to prevent you and anyone embarrassing their own country in this way. perhaps just a last thought for the council: you know, sincere cooperation and transparency do not hurt, particularly if they serve the best interests of the citizens and of the union and european values. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. respect for common values and the rule of law are the cornerstones of our society. but how this becomes a social norm and how it can be controlled is open to debate. we could have a debate on these issues if parliament were to tackle this issue. but he won't. the article 7 procedure against hungary is being heated up again by findings that cannot be incorporated into the rules. the procedure was initiated by parliament but must be conducted by the council. the powers of the institutions shall not be conferred on one another. we shouldn't allow him to formulate ambitions beyond the contract. the draft resolution fears undermining common european values, mutual trust and the credibility of the union. so far, two countries in central and eastern europe have been prosecuted, and we pretend that other member states are perfectly fine with the issues under consideration. i am afraid that the double standards which exist in the eastern part of the union vis-à-vis individual member states are undermining citizens' trust in the union. we should take action against this, colleagues.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. biodiversity and climate change must go hand in hand. after setting ambitious climate targets in paris, it is now time to set out a clear roadmap for more biodiversity. for this we need a strong signal from the eu in kunming. this includes promoting sustainable agriculture and forestry worldwide, which is a major contributor to biodiversity, habitats and ecosystems and has the potential to mitigate the impacts of climate change. i do not think it is worthwhile, however, to set objectives for the sake of objectives and to pursue a policy of symbols. in all actions, whether national, european or international, better regulation must be the first priority. for example, an extension of the protected area to 30% must be subject to a regular impact assessment. i therefore call on the house to be reasonable in advocating sensible measures based on comprehensive impact assessments.
mr president, i usually talk about forests in the european parliament, but today i'm going to talk about cities, because 68% of the world's population will be living in urban areas by 2050. we know that climate change is increasing the frequency of heat waves. we know we're going to have much greater variations in precipitation. in the case of a city that also faces a high level of pollution - as our bucharest is - the solutions could be: creating urban forests, creating a green belt, encouraging vertical gardens and green roofs. the idea of a smart city has to include the sustainability part, because we have to have natural ecosystems corrected by corridors so that seeds can spread easily. so we need european investment in green roofs, in parks, in private gardens, in green facades, which could create additional space for citizens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cities should be integrated into nature, not the other way around. nature is part of our lives, it's not just a vacation destination.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, mrs o'reilly, as the shadow rapporteur for this report, i can tell you that it is easy to work on a report on the activities of a person when that person is very active and very professional in what he or she does. as the s&d shadow rapporteur on the work of ms oreilly in 2018, i was impressed by her professionalism, courage and dedication to defend the interests of the citizens of the european union in relation to the various institutions, as evidenced by the fact that she was re-elected to this position. transparency, accountability of european officials, access to information and documents were some of the areas where ms oreilly was very active and where she came up with appropriate solutions. in this context, ms o'reilly made concrete proposals to ensure the highest possible degree of transparency at the level of all the european institutions. transparency is a fundamental element of the rule of law and i ask the new european commission to take into account mrs o'reilly's proposals in this regard. in her 2018 work, ms o'reilly has shown courage and determination in standing up to the establishment, exposing that at the highest level of the juncker commission, rules and procedures were flagrantly violated in the appointment of the former secretary general of the european commission, mr martin selmayr. under romanian law, as a parenthesis, such an act would have been classified as an act of corruption, and those guilty would have been sent to court, at least for abuse of office and conflict of interest. it is not credible, and i am glad we have a commissioner here today in this debate, for various officials at the european commission level to lecture or lecture member states on the rule of law and the fight against corruption, when they themselves defy the rules, as the juncker commission did. i encourage ms o'reilly to be just as courageous and dedicated in all she does to defend the interests of the citizens of the european union, and we, both as members of the peti committee and as meps, assure her of our full support. good job and good luck, ms o'reilly.
madam president, i would say that conflict of interest is the source of the most important fraud that takes place in the economic system of the european union. conflict of interest is a topic that remains constantly in the news. unfortunately, conflict of interest is regulated and interpreted differently in the member states of the european union. it's not adhering to strict criteria in conflict of interest that differentiates us from country to country. there are some countries that pay particular attention to conflict of interest, others have relaxed legislation. but the conflict of interest also affects the work of the local administration, the central administration. i therefore propose that the commission, within a reasonable time, come up with a proposal for a regulation of conflict of interest, which is universally valid in all eu countries and in all areas, because this is the source of corruption at eu level.
mr president, i wanted to speak because it is very good that we are debating in the european parliament the situation of human rights, freedom of expression everywhere in the world. millions of citizens look to the european union with hope because we are the home that defends these values. it is on these principles that the founding fathers built the european union, and it is vital for us to stand with journalists who are doing their job honestly in these countries where democracy is fragile. it's essential, because we have the largest diplomatic body in the entire world. the external action service needs to be more energetic because we have the largest network of diplomats globally, and because we have this authority, people look to us with hope, and we need to do more for burundi as well.
madam president, we are on a minefield. this situation has persisted for too long, thousands of lives are lost, and at this point, solutions really don't seem to be easy to find. i am a doctor, an emergency physician, working in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblu clinic emergency hospital, and i consider every life lost to be a tragedy. and unfortunately, when i look at the measures that have been taken for nigeria, i see that they have not been as effective as we would have liked. so i am asking the public today -- and i will vote this resolution with no problem, even with two hands, because maybe that's how we save some lives -- but we need concrete action, new geostrategic policies in the region, to curb that hypocrisy that says we are protecting the people of nigeria, but we continue to sell arms to that region. and speaking of humanitarian aid, just so you know, just as i volunteered for the ebola campaign, i'm going to volunteer for nigeria. you can count on me. i wish you success in your endeavours, but until then, i see that much more needs to be done.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, our colleague presented some shocking figures and indeed we need to discuss this issue because christians are persecuted and it is shocking that this is happening, including at christmas, and he called for firm action from the european union. i would like to ask her to explain exactly what it means for the european union to take firm action to protect persecuted christians around the world.
madam president, let me point out to my colleagues that, if they read properly the rules of this house they will see that we can’t even have a glass of water on the table, but we can decently put it under the table so, colleagues, you can just take them and put them under the table and they are there with you to represent you. (loud applause)(interjection from the floor: ‘my flag is not a glass of water.’) (loud applause from certain quarters)
madam speaker, i voted for this resolution and i am surprised that i still hear people in the plenary of this parliament who see maduro as something other than a dictator. he's a dictator, and every dictator i've known throughout history, i've firmly observed that he despises his own people. so we have to give a signal of solidarity with the millions of venezuelan citizens who are suffering in this period, we have to act much more firmly through our diplomacy to sanction this criminal regime that has led and put in incredible situations millions of citizens. so i stand with venezuela and we must fight for the freedom of this people.
in writing. the uk's exit from the european union will bring about radical changes, many of which we probably don't even expect. the only ones we cannot afford in any form are those relating to the respect of the rights of the three million european citizens who are now in the united kingdom. the largest community migration in the last two years has been the romanian community, which today has reached over 400,000 citizens, first in proportion in london, and second nationally, after the poles. the commission must ensure that these people are not discriminated against in the recruitment process, that they are not denied the government loans that students are getting today, that they are not given higher tuition fees and that they are not denied the right to work in the uk after graduation. in recent decades, the community from the rest of the union has contributed massively to the development of the uk, including to the country's budget. for all these people, to deny them these rights would be an injustice, and for britain, a loss both human and economic.
in writing. – the uk is leaving the eu today but we should aim to start real partnership with our former allies. for the next 11 months we need put our efforts to achieve single comprehensive partnership agreement wit the uk. it should be based on mutual trust, respecting of interest and a general level playing field. in the process of negotiations the eu should insist on real safeguards for the rights of its citizens after the end of the transition period. secondly, the eu should not compromise with its standards if the uk does not wish to alight to but insists on access to the european market. thirdly, the eu should not tolerate any attempts for separate bilateral negotiations between the uk and the member states, as this will ruin our unity. the eu on the other hand should seek deeper partnership with the eu in specific sectors like defence, protection and exchange of data, external security. this should ensure that the uk remains a valuable partner in support of the global security.
in writing. the united kingdom will officially cease to be a member of the european union on the night of 31 january. but this is only the beginning of the process, the transition period will last about a year. we have to move forward today. although i don't believe we're stronger on our own, we must do the will of the people. the absence of a treaty would cause even more chaos. this separation is sad for both sides. we have more in common than we have differences. the united kingdom is not going anywhere, and we're going to have to create new relationships, new ways of working together. the first task is to ensure the rights of eu citizens living and working in the uk. it also gives the uk its rights in the european union. and today i bid my colleagues goodbye, hoping that one day they will work together again in the european parliament.
in writing. – this is the last time i can speak to my uk colleagues who will no longer be eu citizens this saturday. according to my opinion and that of my voters, the united kingdom has always been for us a great symbol of freedom and parliamentary democracy, a symbol of excellent business, education, culture and science. i would like to assure you, my dear british and northern irish friends, that in the eu, you’ll always find plenty of helping hands. brexit will not change it. i hope you manage to transform your ‘new independence from the eu’ into something new positive. because independence of country is not possible without cooperation with others, especially in today’s highly interconnected, globalised world. when you will wake up on 1 february, the world will be equally unsafe and dangerous as it is today. that’s why i believe that we will have to negotiate a good agreement for the benefit of both uk and eu citizens. and what is most important, that we will always jointly protect the security and peace in europe, both insular and continental.
in writing. the uk is leaving the eu. the consequences of this exit will be felt on both sides, there is no winner. we will have to adapt to new circumstances on both sides, make new agreements and learn to live together under new circumstances and new rules. we've closed a chapter, we've arranged the conditions for an orderly exit, and we have a daunting task ahead of us. our cooperation in economic and other fields is highly intertwined. many people from eu member states are employed in the uk and many britons work in the eu. we're gonna have to settle this as fairly as possible. nothing will ever be the same again, not rights, not obligations. but we can agree on rules of engagement that will benefit both sides, and above all the people and businesses most affected by brexit.
in writing. mr president, the united kingdom is about to leave the european union. i'm glad that a no-deal divorce is avoided, but sad that the british decided to leave. looking back on history, it's easy to say that brexit has been a long time coming. the last straw was the british conservatives' capitulation to the pressure of the anti-eu and the promise of a referendum. it was a historic mistake. i think it is fair to say that the result of the referendum was based largely on incomplete information and on completely unfounded promises which are extremely difficult for those who made them to deliver. brexit is a sad example of what populism can lead to. the eu and the uk must now turn their eyes immediately to the new negotiations which will define the future relationship between the eu and the uk. the timetable for these negotiations is extremely tight. however, we must seek an agreement that guarantees a close relationship between the eu and the uk and that introduces as few obstacles as possible. the ability of people to continue to apply for jobs and to study, as well as the smooth flow of trade between businesses, i.e. the movement of goods and services across borders, are key issues. the eu-uk relationship will also be shaped by the foreign and security policy. britain is the greatest military power in europe. the uk's departure from the eu is an emotional moment for many people - including myself. there's not much room for emotion later. there are many questions to be answered and much work to be done.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, parliament has now voted and given its approval by a large majority to the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. it is now up to the council tomorrow to give its final approval so that the necessary formalities can be completed so that the united kingdom can leave the european union at midnight brussels time on 31 january. i would like to take this opportunity, before i sign the official document, to share with you some observations. of course, we are all deeply saddened to think that we have reached this point and that a long-standing partner and friend of the european union has decided to leave the family of the union. i still remember the sense of dismay that we all felt when, in june 2016, the news of the united kingdom's decision to leave the european union spread. we have always, of course, fully respected the decision of the people of the united kingdom and their desire to build a different future outside the european union. on behalf of parliament, i would like to express to the colleagues who are leaving us today - this will be our last plenary session - our gratitude and our deepest feelings of gratitude for the contribution they have made over the years. your presence, my british friends, has enriched our institution and we shall certainly miss you. we are all losing colleagues and allies with whom we have close relations and with whom we have worked side by side over these years here in the european parliament. fifty years of integration cannot be dissolved easily. we must all now commit ourselves to building new relations, always putting the interests and protection of the rights of citizens at the centre, and we know that there will also be difficult times. i am sure that we will overcome any differences and always find a common ground. you leave the european union, but you will of course remain part of europe because of the values that hold us together and that unite us deeply. my dear british friends, of course, saying goodbye is too demanding and final. that is why i and all my colleagues are saying goodbye. and i want to greet you with the words of jo cox, the british mp who was killed during an election campaign: "we have more in common than we share". thank you, sir. i shall now sign the letter conveying to the council parliament's approval of the conclusion of the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland from the european union. thank you for your cooperation. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the outbreak of the coronavirus (2020/2511 ((rsp)). i would like to remind you that you can apply for spontaneous and blue card applications both in the traditional way and electronically. the instructions are to be found at the entrance to the chamber.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, i wish to start by thanking you for inviting me to update you on the potentially very serious threat to public health that could result from the ongoing outbreak of acute respiratory syndrome in the chinese city of wuhan. it is caused by a novel coronavirus and there are already thousands of cases and more than 100 people have died. this is a place where hundreds of eu citizens live and work and i will come back to that later but let me first give a few details about the outbreak of this disease. the presidency takes this issue very seriously. we monitor the situation in close cooperation with member states, authorities, eu institutions, bodies and agencies and with international organisations such as the world health organisation. the first cases were reported on 31 december 2019. already on 9 january, the chinese authorities reported that the outbreak was caused by the novel coronavirus. it is genetically closely related to the virus that caused more than 8 000 cases of severe acute respiratory syndrome, better known as sars. first, i’d like to state that available data about the virus transmissibility and fatality rates should be treated with caution as the situation is still evolving. what we know is that the virus causes a potentially very dangerous illness, as the mortality rate of the 2019 virus seems to be lower than the sars, but it is still very high: about 3 percentage of the cases, varying with age, and the incubation period during which any infected persons can infect others seems to be longer. it is, therefore, potentially a serious threat. as i speak, over 6 000 cases of coronavirus infections have been confirmed in china and southeast asia and regrettably 132 persons have died. so far, to the best of our knowledge, no eu citizen currently in china has been infected but some isolated cases have been reported in europe. in the beginning, victims seemed to have been infected by animals, but in recent days first the chinese and then the german authorities have confirmed human—to—human transmission of the virus. this increases the potential of the virus to infect a large number of people. as you know, the commission has the possibility and duty to assist member states, in particular, in cases of cross—border health threats and member states’ competent authorities follow the developments very closely. the health security committee, which deals with serious cross—border threats to health and which involves all member states and the commission, has already met three times to exchange information about the outbreak and will of course be involved in the further coordination of the response to this health threat. as you know, we also have a specialised european agency active in this field: the european centre for disease prevention and control. it now provides, on an almost daily basis, updates about the situation. i dare, therefore, say that, as regards the threat to public health in europe we have sufficient expertise available to handle the situation. furthermore, member states’ authorities are very vigilant to further developments and, as long as there is adherence to appropriate prevention and control practices, there is a low likelihood that secondary cases will occur in the european union. if, however, a person infected outside europe would be discovered late, the risk of secondary transmission would be high, so we need to remain vigilant. let me now further outline what we have undertaken so far. on monday, we very swiftly activated the eu’s integrated political crisis response mechanism for enhanced information sharing among member states, the commission and the european external action service. this mechanism brings together, under the steer of the council presidency, all relevant experts from the member states and the european union institutions, such as in fields of health, consular affairs and civil protection. it is an effective tool to support a collective horizontal response covering both the european union internal and external dimension of the situation. the objective at this stage is to facilitate information sharing across relevant sectors based on expert input from all eu services so as to gain a common understanding of the situation and the latest developments. as regards the need for repatriation of eu citizens, it should be noted that consular affairs fall under member states’ competence, but, of course, also here we have means for cooperation. we also called on monday a telephone conference among the member states. through these coordination and facilitation efforts we are giving member states the opportunity to update and support each other on their repatriation plans. close cooperation between the council structures and preparatory bodies will enable us to reach, effectively and in an appropriate manner, whatever way the situation develops. we have taken this step proactively to ensure we are prepared. we are looking forward to hearing from the commission about their work, which is closely linked to our efforts. for example, as regards the activation of the union civil protection mechanism, which has been requested by several member states.
member of the commission. – honourable members, i’m very grateful to have this opportunity to inform you about the eu’s preparedness and response to the developing situation of the coronavirus, which was first reported in china one month ago. latest reports from this morning indicate just over 6 000 laboratory-confirmed cases and 132 deaths. all the deaths have occurred in china. the situation is evolving very rapidly and has potentially serious public health implications. we have seen that the world health organization is again convening the international health regulations emergency committee on the situation tomorrow to advise on whether the current outbreak constitutes a public health emergency of international concern. we will follow these discussions very closely. my priority as commissioner in charge of health is to make sure that we as the commission provide all the support to member states. this means that the commission is monitoring the situation very closely and has taken action to support national measures and coordinate the response of member states. this takes place via the eu’s early warning and response system, where information is exchanged in real time, as well as discussions with member states in the health security committee, which has met three times. i’m also in regular contact with the director-general of the world health organization and its regional director in europe to coordinate next steps at a global level. this ensures essential and immediate information exchange and a coordinated europe-wide response, which is, of course, the commission’s primary responsibility. ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of cases have been identified in china, but last week, cases have also been confirmed in other parts of the world, including europe. at the moment we have four confirmed cases in france, four confirmed cases in germany, and we also have information that a case has just been confirmed in finland. i am in continuous contact with the french, italian, german and croatian health ministers, and i am assured that the necessary steps to contain the virus have been taken. on monday the eu’s health security committee met to discuss preparedness and needs of member states and response options on the basis of the updated risk assessment from the european centre for disease prevention and control. i have been reassured that the vast majority of european countries reported a high level of preparedness to face the coronavirus in europe, including access to laboratory diagnosis networks; readiness for clinical diagnosis and management of cases; guidance for travellers; capacities and guidance for management of points of entry; and guidance for healthcare professionals and the public on how to deal with suspected cases. an important topic is the repatriation of eu citizens from china: the hubei region, more precisely, where the epidemic is concentrated. on tuesday, france activated the eu civil protection mechanism. we hope that as soon as possible, eu citizens will be able to come back to europe. the details are being coordinated as we speak and the eu emergency response centre is supporting the efforts of member states. there remain at the moment important uncertainties surrounding the coronavirus such as its origins, its transmission mode and its pathogenicity. so we need to continue to monitor this situation very closely. it’s clear that rapid communication, sharing of information and close cooperation are paramount to tackle this outbreak effectively. if the situation deteriorates, we will consider all other tools to strengthen our support to member states, and this would include emergency funding to support outbreak response and, of course, research, where our supercomputer centres stand ready to sequence and simulate the evolution of the virus, which can help researchers develop a vaccine. for the time being, we will continue to offer all our support. should the eu council presidency decide, we would support a decision to organise an extraordinary health council, but i understand this is not imminent. we will update you, of course, as the situation evolves.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have to take this very seriously, and i understand that a lot of people are worried right now. in particular, the case identified in germany the day before yesterday is due to an infection within germany, that is, within the european union. so we have not only imported cases of people infected in china, but also infections within the european union. that changes the situation, of course. we should take it very seriously and be very vigilant! on the other hand, i am also with those who say: do not panic now! we have other health risks, like the very common flu, which is killing many more people in europe right now than the novel coronavirus. but one thing is clear: in the face of threats such as those now being created by the novel coronavirus, we need european cooperation. it is good that the member states inform each other very quickly and that no one keeps any information to himself. i would like to see, even if the recommendations are uniform, that if you live in a border area - for example between germany, belgium and the netherlands - you do not have different recommendations and different procedures at the airports. we should do this together, because viruses know no borders. it is very important for me that we appeal to china. there is a great deal of mistrust in europe, but obviously also among the chinese people, as to whether the chinese authorities have really told us the whole truth and whether they have given the necessary information quickly enough. i can't judge that. but i think that there's just this doctrine in china, unfortunately, that transparency is not the first duty. that has to change! we need to appeal to china to tell its own people the whole truth so that we can respond really well. covering up is not the answer. thank you. thank you.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, madam commissioner, the presidency! first of all, i want to say that i feel for all those affected by this virus and for the families who are worried about their loved ones. of course, it is of the utmost importance that we take the coronavirus seriously. thanks to the early reactions and the information from china, we have been given the conditions to prepare for what we need to do in the eu. i am also glad that we have this debate here today and that much of what has been said by the presidency and by the health commissioner. i would, however, urge the health ministers of the member states to really do their best to ensure that the eu is properly prepared and that we also ensure that we have the best cooperation at global level to stop the spread of the virus. there are still uncertainties, as mentioned in the discussion on how the dissemination is going to take place. it is important to have continuous updates and transparency about all the information that can help us. we're to be alert and ready. at the same time, we should also feel that we have the experience of the eu and the lessons learned from previous outbreaks and outbreaks, such as the sars outbreak at the beginning of the 21st century, as well as a good healthcare infrastructure that can also help us with this. now we need extra vigilance. by preparing well, being alert, cooperating and being prepared, we can prevent this spread from becoming a major problem in europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, as you have indicated, there is still a lot of uncertainty about this coronavirus. first, the number of people infected. if you look at the numbers, the chinese are telling us about 6,000 people infected, the university of hong kong is telling us about 40,000. then, about his contagion. is it really more contagious than other viruses? we find that this is not really the case. is it more deadly than other viruses? you can see that compared to the flu, it's not. will he mutate more than others? at present, this is not really the case either. so i agree with my colleague, let's stop scaring ourselves and i would like to send a message above all: let's stop stigmatising the chinese and asian community. as you have said, we must really concentrate on a research policy, on a policy of cooperation between states and above all on good information for the population, because we must not fall into an irrational panic. finally, it should be remembered that in france, there are between 600 and 700 people who die every year from forms of coronavirus.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, commissioner, members of the council, i am sure we can all agree that this is not the first, nor unfortunately the last, epidemic we are dealing with here. but i agree with my colleagues that we should not panic, although infectious diseases are certainly not to be underestimated. anyway, i hope that it stays that way and that the information from the doctors that the number of people infected is less and the disease appears weaker compared to sars, stays that way. what i think we should also not underestimate, and i'm glad that the mechanisms have worked in almost all european airports, is the screening at the airports themselves. we should have access to a rapid-action system where we can essentially hold these patients and start treating them immediately so they don't pass the virus on to us. also, a quick diagnosis can be very helpful. but i want to say this in conclusion: let's trust the system we have set up. our ecdc and who are monitoring the situation and are ready to act. they seem to be respecting the government's recommendations, and i firmly believe that they will continue to do so, and i thank the commissioner for her active assistance.
first of all, mr president, i would like to congratulate the european commission, despite the fact that, as my colleagues have already said, we do not yet know or are not sure of many things. i have seen a commission that is responding quickly, that has also offered to coordinate and implement the repatriation of people. this is particularly important for small countries. we haven't seen such a rapid response in any previous case, so that's good. i have a number of questions to the commission about the development of a vaccine. it is being developed, but is it also being done in a coordinated way in europe? and once that vaccine is available, does the commission intend and is it prepared to use, for example, shortened authorization and licensing procedures? once that vaccine is there, it's very important to get it to market quickly. and does the commission also recommend, for example, that we should introduce anti-virus medicines at this stage? and then maybe one request to the commissioner from a personal experience: commissioner, if you could please coordinate the advice that member states give to people who have questions. when the mexican flu came to europe and people were concerned, i was pregnant at the time in belgium, and in the netherlands obviously, and in belgium i got the advice to get vaccinated and in the netherlands i got the advice to absolutely don't get a vaccination. so that makes people very insecure and if you could help take these concerns away among europeans that would be highly appreciated.
mr president, commissioner, sometimes i feel that history is repeating itself when i see citizens going to the pharmacy to buy protective masks, buying disinfectant gel and using it every five minutes, and always waiting for another epidemic. sars in 2003; ebola in 2014; zika in 2015 and now the coronavirus in 2020. in the age of climate change, the only constant is the changing and increasing virulence of pandemics. our role is to show leadership and method, a concrete plan for what we already know is going on. fellow citizens, we have the opportunity to strengthen resceu for an entire generation. let's equip the program with a serious drug stockpile and a rapid joint procurement procedure. we have to be as ready tomorrow as we would have been today. european citizens expect europe to protect their lives and health. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – mr sokol, you’re preaching to the converted: you know we want this; you know we need this; you know that europe needs to ‘send a man to the moon’ in the form of fighting cancer. so yes, i do think that we need not only more competence, but also to use what we already have: to use article 168, to use the common market, to use every exception we can get to bring health policy forward for one simple reason: because european citizens accept and want this very much. so, definitely, yes.
mr. president, it is official. even if we don't like it, it is official. the new coronavirus is now threatening europe as well. there are four cases in france and four in germany, and prevention is very important. i am a doctor, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblu clinical emergency hospital, and i believe that at this moment, honourable commission and council, it is extremely important that we put into practice a unitary intervention plan to achieve three things that can prevent the spread of this type of virus. first, uniform prevention measures at the european level. secondly, unitary active monitoring measures and yes, the early warning system can be a solution. thirdly, preparedness for possible intervention, and resceu and the european civil protection mechanism are just a few elements of this whole and i believe that equipping with medicines and a mobile medical team at european level can be solutions at any time in such a crisis situation. in addition, i remind you that the virus has overcome three major barriers. first of all, it was originally said that it was a zoonotic disease, that it could not be transmitted from animals to humans, and it is transmitted, and at the moment we see that there are many cases at european level, as we say... (the president withdrew the speaker's speech).
mr president, commissioner, i shall be very brief in my speech. indeed, we are all concerned, europe is concerned about this virus and the danger comes precisely from the fact that it is a virus that is spreading very quickly. i commend the commission and the council for acting firmly, swiftly, communicating, but i feel that you must do more precisely to inform citizens, especially citizens in vulnerable areas. i think it's good to take it to the next level, to prepare, through the mass media, campaigns to encourage citizens to protect themselves. hygiene, prevention are essential things in times of such crisis.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure you talked about the fact that a significant group of citizens will become stateless as a result of this law. can you tell us the exact number of citizens who are left without a national identity?
madam president, we are actually taking up the subject that was discussed a month ago in strasbourg, in exactly the same terms. nothing is happening. in reality, the situation on the greek islands is extremely difficult, both for the locals and for the refugees. i am referring to the approximately 7 600 children who are on the islands and who live in absolutely inhuman conditions. they live in tents, they are undernourished, they are unhygienic, they are sick, and, madam president, commissioner, children are dying in europe because of the filth. and we here say we gave greece 2.1 billion. yeah, they've been going on for four years, and the support is insufficient. it is a moment of solidarity. we have an obligation to take children from the greek islands to all states.
madam president, any european transport strategy must take account of our environmental objectives, but also of economic realities. there are countries in europe, like the country i represent, romania, that do not have a connection to the european motorway network. there is no motorway in romania that crosses the border to the rest of the european area. there is no highway that crosses the carpathians to connect the regions of the country. it's not about road densification projects, it's about the bare minimum that an economy needs to thrive. even if we shift investments to rail and inland waterway transport - investments, by the way, very large and long-term - we will not be able to avoid this need, completing the european road network to a minimum. it is the right of all european citizens to benefit from accessibility in transport. the european strategy must allow for a just ecological transition.
madam president, allow me to congratulate commissioner valean on her priority for sustainable transport, transport by waterways. in that regard, i make the following request. germany built a canal called the rhine-main-danube canal. romania built another canal that connected the danube to the black sea, the port of constanta. through the two canals we have 1,800 miles of unused waterway. why would you do that? because the unification of the danube commission and the rhine commission regulations was not negotiated. i ask the european commission to try to harmonize the two commissions and unify the traffic regulations.
madam president, i too wish the commissioner every success. today was a sad day for us in parliament. we parted ways after 47 years together, with britain. but i believe that the commission, through the objectives it has set itself, must achieve extremely important goals and contribute much more to strengthening the union, to having a strong union through which we can move as safely and as quickly as possible from east to west, from north to south. i come with a practical proposal, which is in line with the commission's aspirations under the european green deal: if possible, let us implement a series of recommendations whereby at least the national and european institutions install charging stations for electric vehicles. it's a first step to come to the aid of this industry.
madam president, today, as we did a month ago, we discussed the situation in greece, but we must also provide solutions. and the solutions have to be long-term because migration is a phenomenon that will last for many years from now. there are three things that need to be done. first, mr borrell must negotiate readmission agreements with all countries that are sources of illegal migration. secondly, mr borrell must negotiate cooperation with the transit countries, so that the organized crime groups that move these people to the boats on the mediterranean coast are neutralized. and finally, the third point that needs to be resolved: the ships of the military fleets to return the vessels that have on board illegal migrants to the port from which they departed.
madam president, i will again refer to a subject we discussed today, brexit. i think that on this day, in addition to the immediate effects of britain leaving the european union, we must think about the 3.5 million european citizens who are in the uk labour market. among the 3.5 million europeans, there are over 450 000 romanian citizens. i believe that future relations between brussels and london must be focused, with the priority that our citizens are respected, that there is no discrimination whatsoever. i have high hopes that the commission will be able to defend our freedoms and the principles that underpin our union, such as freedom of movement, freedom of work, and that these will be respected and put at the centre of the negotiations that are to take place next year.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it’s a real pleasure for me to be here today to discuss with you the first commission work programme under the mandate of president ursula von der leyen, which we adopted yesterday. this 2020 work programme is important for two reasons. first, because it will not just be the basis of our work for the first year of the mandate but also because it sets the vision, direction and pace for the next five years and beyond. let’s take, for example, the biggest challenge of our generation: the twin ecological and digital transition, which will affect every part of our society and every one of us. secondly, because it has set in motion the special partnership with the european parliament. if you allow me, i will start with the second point, which is important both institutionally and politically and very dear to me. the adoption of the 2020 work programme was a joint exercise. the contribution of the european parliament, your contributions at every stage were being taken into consideration. they were already instrumental in defining the political guidelines and now it is in these guidelines that we programme into action. during this period, i have had the chance to discuss many different priority policies with you in different formats. a key institutional step in the process was the meeting between the conference of committee chairs of this house and the vice—president of the european commission, which offered very good opportunity for in-depth discussion of our priorities and expectations, and i particularly appreciate the cordial and constructive atmosphere of these debates. the discussion of the conference of presidents with president von der leyen contributed to the fine-tuning of our commission work programme just on tuesday before we adopted it yesterday. so i would say that this special partnership clearly demonstrated how important it is, and it will continue all the way and will have to cover the entire policy cycle with this new approach and quality of relationship. if you allow me now, i will turn to the first point, the content of our 2020 work programme. this year, we have programmed 43 policy objectives or packages. in these packages, 28 initiatives will be legislative, allowing sufficient time for their adoption and implementation. we have also examined all proposals that are currently awaiting decision by the parliament and the council, and after taking the suggestions from your house into account. in this case, we are proposing to withdraw 32 of them. some of them do not mention the new commission’s political ambitions; for others we will reflect on more efficient ways to fulfil the objectives, in consultations with this house and the council. finally, under the regulatory fitness and performance programme refit, we identified 44 significant pieces of legislation proposed for re-evaluation or revision. we have already presented to you the european green deal communication, our new growth strategy and the european green deal investment plan as well as the just transition mechanism to support territories most affected by energy transition. the next big step is the climate law, which will propose a binding climate—neutrality target for the eu in 2050. we will conduct an impact assessment until summer. the aim is to be ready for the glasgow conference of the parties (cop) 26, scheduled for the end of october. we will soon propose the 2030 biodiversity strategy to preserve and protect the natural environment and set out our ambition for the negotiations at the coming conference as well as the ‘farm to fork’ strategy, the new eu forest strategy and a comprehensive strategy for sustainable and smart mobility. the european climate bank will help bring together all these efforts, involving regions, local communities, civil societies, schools, industry and individuals. we adopted yesterday our 5g communication, and will soon present a new european data strategy and a white paper on artificial intelligence. we need to protect fundamental rights, but we want our industry to work with artificial intelligence and innovate. soon, the digital services act will reinforce the single market for digital services and help provide smaller businesses with legal clarity and a level playing field by updating the legal framework, including by updating the corporate tax system. on this, the commission will push for a global solution, but if this won’t be possible, we will aim for a european one. in parallel, we will present a new skills strategy. as regards our economy, we prioritise social fairness at the heart of the twin transitions, the green and digital ones, and as a part of this, we will refocus all our policies, including the european semester, by incorporating the united nations sustainable development goals. in consultation with social partners and all the relevant stakeholders, we are working on an initiative to guarantee fair minimum wages for workers in the eu while respecting the specific situations of each member state. the commission will also review that economic governance framework and provide an overview on how fiscal rules have worked in recent years. the review will launch a broad consultation with member states and other stakeholders to explore ways to improve the economic governance framework of the european union. we will soon adopt an action plan to deepen the capital markets union, focusing on tackling regulatory barriers in existing legislation and structural barriers, and making sure that smes have access to finance, and this would become part of our wider sme strategy. the completion of the banking union, a strong and credible framework for preventing and fighting money laundering, the unemployment reinsurance scheme and the european youth guarantee remain our priorities as well. to make the geopolitical commission a reality, we will invest in alliances and coalitions to advance our values, promote and protect europe’s interests through open and fair trade. we will step up our engagement with the western balkans and we will also design a new eastern partnership strategy. as you know, we will soon launch a comprehensive strategy with africa as a basis for our mutual partnership. the eu’s external policy should effectively address issues related to democracy and good governance, climate change, migration and human rights. in this perspective, it is equally essential to reinforce the rules—based multilateral order and as a part of this, the commission will put forward proposals to update and reform the wto. we will present in spring our new impact on migration and asylum, which will be a comprehensive approach covering all aspects of migration, also addressing border security and ensuring more coherence between our internal and external policy. under the same headline ambition of promoting our european way of life, we will present an action plan on integration and inclusion. we will also present a new security union strategy addressing both the digital and physical aspect of security as these are two sides of the same coin. another of our flagship initiatives will be europe’s beating cancer plan – to support member states in their efforts to improve cancer prevention and care. i will also refer to the joint exercise of the three institutions and in close cooperation with national parliaments and our partners to organise a conference on the future of europe. we are in the process of building the scope and the structure. by the end of 2020, we will present the european democracy action plan to address disinformation, political campaigning, free and independent media, and freedom of speech. with regard to fundamental rights, technology needs to serve the people, not the other way around. therefore, the commission will update the charter of fundamental rights to address emerging issues such as artificial intelligence and facial recognition. last but not least, on the rule of law, the commission will intensify its preventive work, for example, with its first rule of law report, which will assess the situation in all member states. this report will have a sound methodology and form the basis for future work on the rule of law. we are also already working on embedding strategic foresight across all commission policies by using all data at our disposal as regards the long—term trends and major shifts on the horizon to be able to design future—proof policies. to this end, i have already established a strategic foresight network within the european commission and i am fine-tuning together with eu member states and partners our coordination on this. i count a lot on cooperation with you. the european parliament, as i already found out, has a wealth of data and intelligence in all its committees. this was a very quick overview of the initiatives included in our 2020 work programme. it took me a little bit more than 10 minutes, but i wanted to demonstrate to you that we are really delivering on what we promised to you: an ambitious yet realistic agenda of our shared priorities for the first year of this commission. the future partnership with the uk will, of course, be one of our main challenges for the next months and years, and i was here yesterday with you on the emotional farewell to our british colleagues, but this was the case during the negotiation of the withdrawal agreement. we want to reassure you that we have committed to the maximum level of transparency as regards the negotiation process towards the european parliament. together with my colleagues in the commission, we are looking forward to working together on our special partnership of trust and turning our agenda into concrete actions. we first have to join forces to ensure an appropriate, modern long-term budget that rises to our common challenges and from now on, we will all have to intensify the work on legislative decision-making with a view to delivering our priorities. the joint declaration on legislative priorities that will follow will serve as a concrete roadmap for our joint work, truly engaging all three institutions, and this will be followed by our first ever multi-annual programming that should capture our common strategic agenda for europe. thank you very much, madam president, and i’m looking forward to the intervention of the honourable members of this house. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the group of the european people's party supports the european commission's work programme for 2020 in general. the document we have had the opportunity to see (assuming that no changes were made to it at the time of yesterday's decision) is a very important source of information for us on what the commission intends to do in 2020. it was important for us that this document contained not only keywords but very concrete plans, and that is why we realize that the procedure we are conducting today is specific because we are after the elections. i would like to say that the commission has already taken the decision, but i would like to make it clear that some of the suggestions that have come from parliament, including our group, have been incorporated in your document, albeit from a slightly different perspective, which does not change their substance. we are aware of this and would like to see this debate and the voices of the members of the european parliament reflected in a joint declaration to be signed by the presidents of the three institutions and then reflected in the multiannual programme. this document is important for us because it shows both new initiatives, those that are under way and those that are being phased out. it is true that the pending initiatives in your brochure are nicely called 'where we want the co-legislator to take the swiftest action'. it is a diplomatic incentive for the european parliament to work faster. we would like to do the same in return: we hope that all the institutions will work faster. but the structure of the document and the way it is approached clearly reflect what the european commission has said: it wants to be a geopolitical commission. these are problems that are internal in nature, but they have external effects. the implications for foreign policy are extremely important to us because we want to translate them into concrete language. for example, we agree completely that the green deal and the digital issue are the fundamental elements. it is interesting that in the green deal you mention certain elements that are also important for us, such as forestry. this document is not just about the just transformation fund, the just transition mechanism, although it was much more broadly addressed. we think it's a good direction to actually pursue some specific purpose. the same applies to the digital economy, because in the digital economy you are putting, for example, issues of scientific research, economic development. it's not just a technological issue. we think it's a good idea to look at this more horizontally. we are very pleased that you have brought the issue of capital markets to our attention, to bring attention to some of the social elements. this is very important for us as a christian democratic party. we also note very important phrases, for example, what we have often spoken about the strategy for africa is referred to in your document as strategy with africa strategy with africa, not for africa. i think this is a very important political statement about the way the commission intends to work: in partnership with africa, not for africa. i think that's a very good approach and we should consider it. we also note with interest your wish to produce annual reports on the rule of law for all member states. we think it's a good thing and it should be done. finally, a critical remark if the commissioner will allow the emff is not just a method for us, it is one of the important objectives, because there are policies behind it. for you, the mff is the method behind all the objectives. for us, the emf is simply a goal we want to achieve, and we hope that you, as an honest broker, will help us to do it as soon as possible, because the emf is not the work of accountants. the mff is a discussion about policy and what you are supposed to do. so the european people's party supports your action plan for 2020 and we will be watching closely how it is implemented, but we also declare our support.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this is an excellent example of cooperation between you, mr šefčovič, and this parliament. in general, the commission has correctly identified the challenges facing the european project at the moment and the tools we need to put policies into action. but as you know, the devil is always in the details, and we also consider that the proposal lacks precision and has certain ambiguities. we would therefore like to remind you of one point: that our political group's support for the commission is not a blank cheque, and we will therefore be very careful to verify that each and every one of the proposals contained in this work programme is actually being implemented. while the work programme incorporates the necessary instruments to implement the green deal through a just transition in all regions, we regret that it does not include the target of 55% emission reduction by 2030. the climate emergency recently declared in this parliament demonstrates our firm commitment to combating climate change, and the same commitment we expect from the commission and the council. otherwise, climate neutrality by 2050 will be an empty promise, and we cannot afford it. we would also have liked a broader approach from the commission which recognises the opportunity that migration represents to address the demographic challenge and to maintain the welfare state. we also have an obligation to approach the integration of refugees into our societies with humanity. just yesterday this parliament held a debate on the situation of refugees on the greek islands, which i think is the clearest example of how we cannot wait another minute. we are talking about the lives and dignity of thousands of people who are waiting for a solidarity and responsible response from the european union. solidarity also means making the european pillar of social rights and its 20 principles a reality, including the 'children's guarantee' to eradicate poverty and a legal framework to guarantee a living wage for workers. solidarity also means making an effort in the european project towards those neighbours who have made an effort to embrace our laws and our values. we will therefore continue to advocate the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. and solidarity also means protecting and strengthening our democracies, and hence the need for a new mechanism to safeguard the rule of law. but let's be serious about this. this can only be achieved if there is agreement on the multiannual financial framework. and here i would like to call on the council to assume the responsibility of the need for agreement on this matter in order to be able to address all these challenges; otherwise we will be unable to put in place all the tools we need at the moment. we have a duty to keep our promises. we therefore call on the commission and the council to take responsibility so that, through joint commitment, we can make possible the union that citizens need.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr vice-president, it is the first year of the mandate for the commission and for parliament. this commission shares with parliament an ambitious vision, with the two pillars, the green deal and the digital transformation, that will completely reset the european economy and way of life. the results of this mandate will depend heavily on the ability to deliver projects based on this vision, but also on identifying the resources to enable its implementation. an ambitious and adequate multiannual budget is needed, but it is very likely that it will not be sufficient to support member states and the private sector to finance the restructuring of economies. i expect the commission to provide solutions for integrated financial instruments, but complementary to the multiannual budget. the legislation we're waiting for has to come with solutions. the european union is perceived too much as an inflationary producer of rules and regulations. we will increase confidence in european added value to the extent that the decisions taken here will generate welfare, will produce added value, complementary to what individual member states can do, and this is the great challenge of the european union. the renew group will not just sit back and wait for proposals and results from the commission. we've already come up with ideas about how we think the migration problem could be solved, how the green deal could be put into practice. in the next few days, we're also going to present a vision of how we think we should approach the support and regulation of artificial intelligence. beyond welfare, the european union must ensure that citizens not only can move, study and work throughout its territory, but also that european values, the rule of law, are respected in all member states. and the breach of the rule of law must also have consequences, regardless of which member state is involved, and in this respect the work programme presented is insufficient, it is not clear enough. starting next week, the uk will become a third country. we need to draw all the lessons from what happened with brexit and maybe improve the way the european union works, and the conference on the future of europe can be the generator of these new ideas. we want the european commission to be a partner of parliament in putting this debate with the citizens into practice, because the european union we want to share with the citizens who sent us here must be one that builds vision and offers solutions.
dear vice president, sixty-something years have passed since the treaty of rome, ladies and gentlemen, and i remind you that the world is more unstable today than ever before. climate, technological and demographic changes are changing our society and our way of life. we must focus, commissioner, on equality and creating opportunities for all, for women and for men, europeans from east, west, south or north, young and old. the european green deal, for example, consists of 47 key measures. over the next ten years, it will mobilise at least a trillion euros, which means that we expect a trillion investments in environmental and climate protection. that's the investment side. the 'people's economy' you mention is the principle of equal pay for equal work, which will be the basis for new european gender equality strategies. it's going to be a big challenge. just a quick reminder, women on average earn 16% less than men, even though they're more educated. the conference on the future of europe and the new theme, a new impetus for european democracy, is another objective. our citizens, our young people, civil society and the european institutions as equal partners should play a special role here. who better to speak of democracy than the continent that founded it? but we have to regain our faith in who we are, who we are, and where we're going. this program is a good way to do that.
i welcome the commission's proposed initiatives, but i expect the high-level objectives to be met. in particular, the transition towards an ecological and sustainable europe. the role of regions and local communities will be key and they should be involved in the processes, in particular in the just transition fund. i support the initiative against biodiversity loss by 2030, which is a priority for croatia as a country rich in natural resources. that is why i welcome the new strategy for european forests. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states. encourages the commission to give priority to the youth guarantee. this gives young people additional opportunities for education and employment. the strengthening of the geopolitical role of the european union, especially in the immediate neighbourhood, allows for clear support for the opening of negotiations with north macedonia and albania. i hope that the new methodology announced will give a boost to this process, especially in the run-up to the zagreb summit for which i am preparing a recommendation on behalf of the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when i printed out the commission's work programme and priorities, i thought that my printer had left something out, because i only see point 30 on the external dimension, the wto reform. this is a point that may happen at some point in the future, but it has nothing to do with the external economic backing of the green deal, and it has nothing to do with the implementation of the un's sustainability goals in foreign trade policy. so i really ask the commission: where are the sustainable development goals in trade policy? what about a border adjustment fund that ensures there are no competitive disadvantages? where are the real supply chains that are so fair that companies can also take responsibility for the sustainability goals globally? we'll have to work on that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that the commission's work programme for 2020 includes several initiatives relating to the health and nutrition of european citizens. we have the farm to fork strategy, europe's beating cancer plan and others. i can only agree with them, but i must point out that the commission's programme lacks a very important initiative to bring them together and, more importantly, to give the consumer the power of informed choice, the power to be the most important factor in the common fight to prevent disease. we need to ensure that all europeans, regardless of their training, have access to accurate and effective information about the food they choose to consume. that is why i am stressing the need for a food labelling initiative with traffic lights, which takes account of the nutritional intake and the benefits of food for human health, because citizens and their health should be the most important item on the agenda of european politicians, on our agenda, on everyone's agenda.
mr president, i have looked at the commission's programme. if we look at priorities, we wonder where all this money comes from. we have the ambition to have a pollution-neutral europe. we have ambitions to launch the 5g program. we have ambitions to make a european army. we have the ambition to implement the social pillar. i can't believe so many priorities at once when i look at how much money is being allocated. that's why i'm saying that this green deal has to be looked at responsibly. a trillion dollars in ten years is far too little, and if you want to see the effects, come to romania, to the jiu valley, and see the closure of the blasphemy mine. what's left of that program, done with the european union, is unemployment and poverty.
mr president, i come from iasi, a city on the eastern border of the european union, in romania, and i have three urgent requests for romania. first of all, i am speaking of schengen. it doesn't even cost anything and i remind you that we met all the conditions and we were not allowed in today either. secondly, i'm talking about infrastructure and you should know that the iasi regional emergency hospital and the iasi-târgu mureș highway are among the priorities of the citizens of romania. we managed to send the funding request a month ago and i hope you will speed up these procedures for allocating funds because those who sent me to the romanian parliament are tired of so many expectations. and third, re-analyzing and rebalancing agricultural subsidies so that we have fairness in all the countries of the european union. i ask the other romanian meps in the room to support me in this endeavour and i am convinced that we will find the healthy solution so that these three objectives become a priority for the european commission as well.
in writing. i'm a doctor, and i want to support every patient, city and country in crisis. we now have the power to do so in the european parliament. i'll vote with both hands on this measure. i would just like to remind you that the new resceu programme (which i supported in the european parliament plenary) has become a reality. the programme provides new opportunities for european response to emergencies (such as floods, fires, earthquakes or other disasters). the strasbourg plenary has already voted to allocate the eur 156.2 million needed for this programme. i want: 1.development of the european civil protection mechanism - involving the establishment of new medical, technical and logistical capacities at european level - to facilitate access to treatment for critical (burned, polytrauma) patients in member states in emergency situations. i want the iasi emergency hospital to be included in this process. 2.develop and implement a european plan to fight cancer - essential for health education, prevention and early diagnosis, but also for improving access to innovative medicines and technologies. 'unity in diversity' (the motto of the european union) must mean solidarity and health.
madam president, esteemed colleagues, it is a sad time today. i come from an eastern country and i am very sorry that our union, which was strong precisely because britain was part of this construction for almost 47 years, a union which, together with britain, has managed to save us, the easterners, from communist hell. we who came later, experience this separation differently, which i hope will be short-lived. i thank all the british politicians and diplomats who have made the union strong and who have helped us to be together today in the same family. i voted for this agreement, i did not vote with a heart of peace precisely because i know that there are over 3.5 million europeans in the uk. over 450 000 of these 3.5 million are romanian citizens. i hope that in this agreement the commission will have all the tools to protect all europeans in the uk.
madam president, i congratulate you, commissioner, on the new scheme for preparing the member states for accession to the european union. i think it's going to be much more efficient and predictable. i would make one observation, however. the fundamental issue for these states is to be the rule of law before they become members of the european union. at the same time, they are required to move to a market economy and to achieve a functioning competitive market. this is why corruption flourishes and the experience of our countries tells us this. we cannot do major privatizations until we have a solid rule of law, a judiciary capable of overseeing privatization processes.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i thank this house for the debate. i also thank this house for the renewed commitment to the western balkans. this is a very important sign that we need to send to the region. it is also clear from the debate that you all want a credible perspective for the western balkans to become eu member states. this is also a very important political message that we are able to deliver today already. i received several questions on the new methodology itself, but also on how it is linked to the possible opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. first of all, of course, new methodologies are proposed to make way to opening accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. therefore, this is – as i have said – part of a bigger strategy in which the second element is actually to deliver opening the accession negotiations. when we were designing the whole structure of the new methodology, we were very clear that there are no new conditions. this is a question that i received from many of you. we’re still working with the copenhagen criteria and those are unchanged. they are unchanged, but they are going to be enforced better, more inclusively and more effectively through the better participation not only of our member states, but also of our public. this continues to be a merit-based process. this is what i have been describing to you, meaning that if there is delivery, there is going to have to be a delivery on our side. however, it also means that if there is backsliding, we would have to take steps in terms of going back to the whole process. the idea of the whole methodology is to tackle the substance much better, much more effectively, and in a more transparent manner. i also received a question on how it is possible to start accession negotiations – the member is no longer here – with countries that have high unemployment. well, this is exactly why we have the third element of the strategy, which is the zagreb package – the economic development package. we would want to create growth and jobs locally so that people can get jobs and create strong resilient economies for the whole region.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i welcome the commission's new enlargement methodology and hope that its adoption will facilitate the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. the revised methodology can realise the transformative potential of enlargement policy. but we must have the courage to confront directly the phenomenon of state capture by the ruling elites in the western balkan countries. our enlargement policy must be much more concrete and applied to the citizens of these countries. we also need to support critical voices, integrity watchers and civil society - these are our natural allies in implementing the reforms required for accession. the european union must give a voice to the citizens of the region against regimes that for decades have only simulated reforms. pro-european political forces need to be strengthened and we need to be much more rigorous in conditioning funding on concrete steps taken to deliver reforms. i am pleased that the new methodology places the rule of law and fundamental rights at the centre. it is essential that all aspiring member states behave in the letter and spirit of european law. situations such as the forced expulsion of some teachers or activists, seeking political asylum, to countries like turkey should not exist.
mr president, i welcome you, mr commissioner, small and medium-sized enterprises are a big part of the european union's economy. it is therefore natural to ensure that legislation does not impede, but rather helps to maintain and develop these very important economic players in the market. however, it is worrying that in europe a large number of smes close down less than a year after their creation. heavy legislation, a lack of legal staff, cumbersome access to finance, extremely tight controls in some member states and - we have to admit - in some cases corruption in the state apparatus are decisive factors in the failure of micro-enterprises. it should be borne in mind that even european funds are inaccessible to smes in different member states, due to indicators that are impossible to meet in certain areas or because of very cumbersome application and implementation procedures. the commission will also be able to provide information on the impact of the new rules on the internal market and on the impact of the new rules on the internal market. last but not least, commissioner, i would like to see us ensure that improved european legislation is swiftly implemented in the member states, respecting the letter but above all the spirit of the legislation.
in writing. they are small and medium-sized, vulnerable to unforeseen changes and pressures, but have a strong national footprint. it therefore needs to be protected by single, simplified and easily enforceable legislation. i ask you today if there is a strategy to do this and what are the first three measures you will put in place to encourage these small and medium-sized enterprises to grow, create new jobs and adopt a green strategy?
mr president, the other day i had the feeling that the strongest thing we need is solidarity. 5g technology gives us the opportunity to show solidarity. for this reason, in order not to create discrepancies between member states, i propose that the commission consider the creation of a uniform implementation plan throughout the european union, using strictly european union-produced technology and strictly european union-issued regulations valid for all states. i am convinced that such an approach will strengthen cohesion between all the states of the european union.
mr president, we must realise that to achieve the ambitious goals of the european green deal we need not only smart and sustainable transport solutions, but also sustainable transport routes, built with respect for the environment. i come from a country that is facing the consequences of not having a national management plan for protected natural sites and areas. among others, major infrastructure works, such as the sibiu-pitești highway, or the bypass of the municipality of bacău, are affected. without these investments we cannot develop romania and the north-east region, one of the poorest in the european union. it is the duty of the government in bucharest to urgently manage the management plans of the protected natural sites, so as not to block the infrastructure works. therefore, the moldovan motorway must be environmentally friendly and affect the flora and fauna of protected sites as little as possible. i plead in favor of the iasi-bacau-brasov motorway option, the optimal solution to connect moldova with transylvania, only 8% impact on protected areas, compared to 55% impact for the târgu-mureș - iasi option.
mr. president, this decision could save millions of lives. the reopening of the cantacuzino institute in romania must become a priority for the european union. in the context of the multiple current concerns about the evolution of influenza, measles, the new coronavirus and microbial resistance, and given the need to increase confidence in immunisation solutions, i am asking you today, honourable commissioner, to prioritise funding for this strategic objective. my legislative solution was adopted by the romanian parliament - after having tabled it there seven times, to be sure - but to be truly effective, this objective must be integrated into a european plan and can become a strategic objective for the european union. this will ensure safe, cheap and timely vaccines. 21 strategic vaccines were produced in romania, and the institute was one of the seven influenza vaccine producing institutes at european level. we can provide unique products that boost immunity, like qantas timus and polidin, and, more than that, in crisis situations like the coronavirus right now, we can get early and rapid diagnosis and prevent epidemics. i think that this european standard of quality in healthcare that i have proposed... (the president interrupts the speaker) ... already in the european parliament must become a reality.
mr president, the forest is part of the romanian and european dna. it's not surprising that ngos and citizens' associations are actively involved in forestry in our country. the exclusion of ngos from managing protected areas by law is an incomprehensible limitation, as they should still be able to do projects. these people not only know the forest, they love it, they are the guardians of the forest, they have shown this countless times. why put stops between them and their destination? let's not forget that by 2019, one third of all natura 2000 sites were managed by civil society. the state has no capacity to protect the forest, no money, no manpower. what logic is there to stop citizens from lending a helping hand? the european green deal is a contract between citizens and institutions, but it will not be done alone, it needs people's involvement. romania's forests are europe's forests. our air, the air of the european union, comes from the forests of europe.
mr president, my speech today is about a country in our immediate neighbourhood in the eastern partnership. in the european union we have 24 official languages. but it seems that for the authorities in kiev, it is not enough that romanian is an official language of the european union and, through the education law amended in 2017, which prohibits minorities from accessing their mother tongue, something extremely serious is happening: the romanian minority is faced with a thesis that the soviet union created, namely that romanian is nothing but a foreign language for the romanians there and that they speak a language called moldovan. this thesis is a danger today for 500 000 romanians who speak romanian and, because romanian language teachers in ukraine are asking to return to the romanian language, i am also asking for a committee to intervene on this issue. (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, mr michel barnier, we have a situation that we did not want. we did not want britain to leave the european union, we did not want to create this moment that we have to manage now. but please, one very important thing, firmly reject any unacceptable conditionality, any absurd issues that the london government will want to discuss with us. but you have to think about three important elements: think about the british people who didn't want britain to leave the european union; when we talk to london, think about the 3.5 million european citizens in britain and the 1.5 million british citizens in the european union. they're the ones we need to protect. and last but not least, all of our actions must be thought of in perspective, because one day, britain will have to come back to us.
in writing. apparently, the eu is weakened by brexit, both in image and in numbers. but the union's strength is not in numbers, because if it were, it would not have been so powerful and attractive from the start. member countries have chosen to join voluntarily, they were not forced. the union's strength is reflected in its values and principles and in its constant concern for its citizens. the sum of these elements not only makes it powerful, but it's also a model that others have chosen to either follow or aspire to. therefore, while this year's negotiations must take into account that there are people behind each sector, it is vital that we do not give up any of our values, principles and beliefs. they have held us together all these decades and made the european union the most successful geopolitical project in history. a unique supranational partnership if we showed that we were willing to compromise our values, we would encourage other member states to resolve their various disputes by threatening to leave. we must ensure that the union's positions are respected. we need to negotiate as we have done before, from a position of strength, with firmness.
in writing. – the mobility of persons and workers was always directly linked to the smooth functioning of the internal market of the european union the united kingdom would like frictionless access to. over the years, however, it has also changed the social fabric of the societies on both sides of the channel. a too severe approach to immigration risks tearing apart myriad links in this fabric. we can just think of the relatives of the 3.5m citizens of eu countries who have the right to remain in the uk, whose relatives would not be able to move back and forth between their countries of residence and the uk under current uk plans. but we can also think of uk citizens remaining in europe who would be tied to their eu countries of residence and the young britons who treasure the possibility to go to europe without a visa and get study, work and life experiences on the continent. any ambitious agreement on the future relationship should be mindful of these social links and would need to ensure the continuation of rights for eu and uk citizens to the largest degree possible.
mr. president, mr. trump's so-called middle east peace plan is a fraud, a dirty game, and a blow to international law against efforts to find a peaceful solution to one of the most pressing issues in the middle east. - calm down, so it won't. the us president's plan is another step towards the imposition of the complete apartheid regime that israel is already imposing on the palestinians and which makes the establishment of a sovereign and even possible palestinian state practically impossible. trump clearly doesn't realize that peace in the middle east, especially for israel, will not be achieved without a solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. that is why, mr. borell, i support you in your adherence to international law and your fight against the illegal annexation of the west bank and the jordan valley to israel. europe should immediately ban the import of products produced in illegal jewish settlements and stop all european investment. the eu must make israeli access to eu programmes conditional on progress in the peace process.
mr. president, trump's plan is a blast from the past of the international consensus on the israeli-palestinian conflict. it is based on unilateralism, on annexation, on inequality of rights, on contempt for international law and will lead to perpetual occupation and permanent conflict. as my colleague said earlier, it is not a peace plan, it is a dictate. i would like to thank the high representative for his courageous statement on this matter and also say that it is time to defend the basic international consensus on this conflict: that we want a negotiated political process, a two-state solution, respect for international law and equal rights. and for that i believe that the member states, in order to keep and continue to keep alive the hope of a two-state solution, must begin to seriously consider the recognition of palestine as a state in order to make that possible. and finally, i would ask the high representative - and this is very important at the moment - that the policy of differentiating between the 1967 borders and israel's illegal annexations of territory be maintained by the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join many of my colleagues in condemning and firmly rejecting the plan proposed by mr trump for the solution of the israeli-palestinian question, a pure act of electoral propaganda in favour of mr netanyahu, who has been trying for months to regain a solid majority and divert attention from his corruption trials, and an act of propaganda for mr trump himself, who is trying to show himself as a world leader of great influence. the plan is unacceptable. no consultation of the palestinians, the annexation of the west bank, jerusalem as the exclusive capital of israel: these are just some of the points in the agreement which violate international law in practically every possible way. i think you have done well, therefore, mr high representative, in firmly rejecting it and reaffirming the european position for a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders. he was right to warn that any act of annexation would have grave consequences. it is time to start saying it, europe cannot be condescending. we will never be silent in the face of the denial of history and of international law.
mr. chairman, no peace plan can succeed without the support of all the parties to the conflict, and the way this plan was published speaks most of all of the political weaknesses of the two leaders who presented it. the plan is an expression of the current us administration's unilateral policy and chronic rejection of multilateralism. we can think of the paris agreement, the relationship with the kurds, the role in syria, the agreement with iran. certain elements that have been presented as major concessions have actually already been agreed during earlier negotiations and attempts to find a solution. particularly concerning are the parts of the plan that relate to the jordan valley and parts of the west bank. this proposal merely demonstrates the depth of the differences between the opposing parties. all involved should refrain from unilateral moves and engage sincerely in genuine negotiations to find a lasting solution, namely two independent, democratically consolidated sovereign states, which will allow for peaceful and secure coexistence of people on both sides of the border. such a solution must, of course, be based on international law.
mr. president, i welcome trump's middle east peace proposal, mainly because it is balanced, something for the israelis, a guarantee of peace and security, and something for the palestinians, a state of their own. the democratic countries more or less supported this proposal, but all the others who did not, rejected it together with the palestinians, who obviously are satisfied with the status quo and do not want peace. iran also rejected this, this proposal. i would like to ask mr. borell, who was recently in iran, did you discuss this proposal with the iranian authorities? and secondly, did you alert the regime to the drastic human rights violations in this country? and third, why were you even there, when all you were doing was helping legitimize a regime that was grossly violating human rights?
mr president, mr high representative borrell, in the last decades of peace negotiations in the region, the entire international community has affirmed the importance of promoting a plan based on the principles of international law. any peace plan is welcome, as long as it is in line with these principles, is inclusive and proposes the existence of two states, two states for two peoples, coexisting in peace and security. in the absence of such a plan, the current status quo will unfortunately be maintained. we cannot opportunistically rush what for decades has been wrestling in pain. that is why i would like to mention the idea of my colleague, mr vautmans, that a multilateral peace conference, which ensures an inclusive format, where we can be at the table, is the direction we need to go.
madam president, with regard to syria, we must understand that the european union has gone through several stages. the first stage of the union's position on syria was that the european union wanted bashar al assad's head on the spot. in the last 2-3 years we have come to say: we will try him, we do not want his head, but to organize elections in syria. that shows inconsistency. in fact, we were hesitant to intervene from the beginning, we didn't know how to make the french stop and today we complain about what is in syria. syria will remain under russian control, that's the truth. we complain about turkey moving into northern syria. any state would have gone in to protect its border. so, colleagues, until we understand that being part of the decision means participating, we will sit back and mourn the disaster in syria. either we intervene and very well let the french do it, or if not, we must refrain, because we are responsible.
(the member addresses the president in german) i'm not going to talk about the principles that underlie the fight against anti-semitism, racism and hatred. it is very clear that we need a coherent strategy and applied policies to combat them. i would like to draw attention to the fact that these policies must be drawn up and implemented as quickly as possible in all the member states of the union, from their capitals but also in small towns, villages and municipalities. without this general application we will find ourselves in many situations, such as the ditravau case two weeks ago in romania, where two asian-origin cooks were forced to accept the position of unskilled workers, in order not to upset the local community revolted by the presence of foreign workers in the locality. the incitement of citizens to hate, to discriminate was not punished by the authorities, moreover, it was accepted that the two cooks were transferred to work under their training, thus creating an extremely dangerous precedent. we had in europe over 1,500 years of hatred, bigotry, fear of others, whoever they are, we call it the middle ages. i think we need to act quickly and decisively, so that we don't go back there, to the horrors of the past.
madam president, in january, judges from 20 european countries marched silently on the streets of warsaw in solidarity with their polish colleagues. we should manifest the same solidarity here with all those in the polish legal system who are desperately trying to defend their independence – but not in words, in decisions. commissioner, you are right. what is going on right now in poland, when it comes to the judiciary, is not reform but destruction. we cannot sit and watch when the government is dismantling, bit by bit, what defines the identity of an eu member state, because it is in the union’s legal dna to have independent, impartial courts operating in accordance with fair trial rules which are able to uphold union law. now the polish authorities, through their recently-adopted legislation, are moving the country further away from europe and threatening the supremacy of eu law. i was hearing my colleagues earlier speaking about reform. i think it is that reform, from the time of arabela and pani rumburak and the magic ring, which made eu law and eu rule of law disappear. so please, commissioner, go back to poland and remind them that poland is the main beneficiary of eu funds in the union and then, when you come back, let’s get that legislation done, making eu funding conditional on eu law. (the speaker refused to take a blue-card question from jadwiga wiśniewska)
(start of speech inaudible) somebody sitting in a european institution but ignoring european rules and rule of law.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. pets are bought in a hurry and thrown away just as easily. every day in europe animals are neglected, mistreated, dumped or killed. commissioner, did you know that in ireland, greyhounds are given drugs and steroids to perform at the racetrack, leaving them toothless and weakened at the end of the season? did you know that in spain galgos used for hunting are punished by being hung from trees until they suffocate? did you know that in many eastern european countries stray dogs are set on fire or fed antifreeze or broken glass? did you know that throughout europe stray cats are being poisoned, shot, their tails pulled out, their ears cut off, and entire nests drowned? did you know that for the nefarious puppy trade, puppies are bred in large barns, then sold on the internet? commissioner, this trade must be dealt with very harshly. puppy-sharing should be banned once and for all. in addition, all dogs and cats must be compulsorily chipped and registered, more checks must be carried out and harsher penalties imposed, especially for counterfeiting passports and chips. we must put an end to this organized crime and this animal suffering.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the purchase of a puppy is not the same as financing the third most lucrative organised crime in europe, second only to drug and arms trafficking. a puppy buyer certainly does not want thousands of dogs and cats to be torn from their mothers prematurely and forced on hellish journeys in which only half sometimes make it to their destination alive. yet this is what happens to many very ignorant european citizens who buy a pet through some online advertisements or without carrying out the necessary checks. this nightmare must end, and the solution is at hand. a compulsory system of identification and registration is needed which is harmonised at european level, allowing the creation of national databases which are interconnected with each other so as to make full traceability of animals possible. we must also tighten up sanctions and controls, and punish severely not only those who traffic in animals but also veterinarians and the authorities who are complicit in this business.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. who doesn't know her? the dog or the cat as a faithful companion. i myself come from a small farm where animals are treated with great dignity and very naturally. animals cannot speak for themselves, so we have to do this here, and many dogs and cats in europe are not treated as equals. illegal trade in these animals is flourishing, often under very terrible conditions. the health and welfare of the animals is saved to create additional profits. we have to do something. i propose four measures: firstly, we must tighten up the controls in the member states, which is the responsibility of the member states, not the commission, i am aware of that. but we need uniform standards in animal welfare. thirdly, we need a common european register system and linked databases. and fourth, we need better regulation of online commerce. in wallonia, where i come from, there are these measures, they have made a law to regulate online trade, you can take that as an example, then maybe the animals are doing a little better.
madam president, we are talking about a matter of extreme importance, both in its scope and its gravity. i am an emergency doctor in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblu clinical emergency hospital and i believe, commissioner, as do you, that the life of every living being must be protected. on the one hand, animal cruelty is unacceptable and i think we need to come up with much tougher measures here. in romania, we have already tabled a bill in the romanian parliament's plenary that punishes cruelty to animals with years of hard prison time, and here i suggest that the legislation that condemns this phenomenon can be tightened. secondly, we are talking about an important public health issue and especially in the context of new concerns about the spread of infectious diseases, especially now that we are talking about the coronavirus, i think this needs to be done at the european level as well. so from my point of view, three things are clear, even if we are talking about subsidiarity policies. a uniform european law, a stronger conviction of those involved in this illegal trade and, thirdly, european education to protect the lives of these creatures.
mr president, i remember very well when i was a child we got a puppy and it was the best present ever! puk has had a wonderful life on our farm, too. unfortunately, this is not so common in the european union and that is actually a scandal. it still happens that puppies are born in poor hygienic conditions, that they do not receive the deworming treatments, do not receive the vaccinations, even are mistreated or do not see the light of day. such puppies are then placed with loving families where the puppies become ill or even die. this is unacceptable animal suffering and it also causes a lot of suffering to those families. they also have to go to a veterinarian again and have high costs. this illegal trade, this breeding of cats and dogs must stop. this is not worthy of the eu and i therefore ask the european commission to monitor this very closely and to take a very strong stance.
madam president, every year thousands of pets are trafficked illegally within the union. these animals are malnourished, separated from their mothers too young, often sick and untreated, and then sold illegally in europe. beyond animal welfare, it is also a matter of public health and consumer protection. these animals can sometimes carry contagious diseases, and unwary consumers may end up with condemned pets, unpaid bills and a broken heart. to stop this illegal trade, we ask the commission, first, to improve traceability by proposing a harmonised system of animal registration. second, to put an end to illegal online advertising. to do this, we require systematic identification of sellers. and thirdly, to improve cooperation between member states to stop these traffickers. these measures are urgent and essential to combat these criminal networks.
madam president, regulation (eu) no 576/2013 was designed for the non-commercial movement of pet animals. and illegal trade in such animals within the european union violates this regulation; it also undermines the proper functioning of the single market, because we are often talking about bad practices in the field of digital sales. the envi commission's action plan to solve this problem is clear: better implementation of the regulation; sanctions for the agents involved in this illegal trade: veterinarians, traders, sellers, advertising; the establishment of a european system for identifying cats and dogs; encouraging citizens to adopt animals as an alternative to buying and selling; and better cooperation and training of customs authorities. this is the way. we must not forget that animal welfare is closely linked to human welfare. trafficking in animals, many of them unvaccinated or without the necessary certificates, also means trafficking in diseases. a society that protects animal rights is a more humane society.
it is estimated that every month some 46 000 dogs are traded between the member states of the european union, most of them unregistered, many of them sick, unvaccinated and with forged or no documents, their origin unknown and many animals dying shortly after being sold. illegal trade in animals is the most lucrative crime in the world after drugs and weapons. apart from protected and wild animals, pets are illegally traded. this has negative consequences for public health, animal welfare and consumer protection. identifying and registering all cats and dogs is therefore the first step in combating their illegal trade. in the council conclusions of last december, adopted during the finnish presidency, the council further invited the commission to assess the need for new animal welfare legislation. in croatia, such legislation is well regulated. ladies and gentlemen, these data are a sad reality that we must all change together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, article 13 of the treaty of lisbon states that animals are sentient beings and must be treated and protected as such. yet even today they are considered only as objects. we are talking about illegal trade, with puppies being packed into trucks and trucks like any other merchandise or luggage to be illegally sold in different countries of the european union, bringing physical and psychological trauma. but i would also like to raise the question of the transport of our pets. for many europeans, travelling with their four-legged friends is impossible, especially if it is by air. not all airlines allow pets to travel, and those that do impose weight and number limits on cabin access, and carrying excess animals in cargo holds as items. we must update the rules, obliging all companies to accept animals and to ensure that they travel safely. they travel, not that they're carried like packages. adopted, not bought!
madam president, commissioner, you said in your introduction that the illegal trade in pet animals is a matter for the nation states. i'm sorry, but i'm going to take that as an alibi. we in the czech parliament are trying to push for a tougher amendment of the criminal code, to punish the counterfeiters, to punish this trade, and these debates clearly show that no member country is able to solve this problem completely. this is an international organized crime, as my colleagues have made clear here, involving hundreds of thousands of puppies and kittens, and causing enormous suffering to these creatures, and unless the eu and its institutions, in particular the european commission, prepare effective pan-european measures, no member state, however well-intentioned, will be able to solve this problem on its own. i beg you to give this matter your full attention. your answer was evasive. try to find a solution that effectively hits this organized crime where billions are evaded in taxes, but mostly innocent animals suffer.
madam chairman, member of the commission, colleagues. europe banned the slave trade in the nineteenth century. but at the beginning of the 21st century, we cannot provide normal conditions for our little friends by restricting illegal trade. the european union, which has succeeded in creating world-class economic prosperity, is at the forefront of technological innovation, but it is still reluctant to introduce mandatory registration and marking of dogs and cats. in the face of the digital age, of the necessary achievements, we do not have a single registration data system in our union. by risking animal welfare, defrauding uninformed consumers, and violating public health regulations, we support illegal and dirty business. i call on the european commission to take binding decisions without delay to create a european framework for animal welfare. let's end modern day slavery.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’d like to thank you all for this important debate. i have heard your interventions very carefully. what you don’t need to do is to try and convince me that we need to do more. i am a very proud owner of a companion animal. i have myself been following what has been going on for the last few years online, and really i must admit that i share with you that a lot of what we are seeing is, to say the least, extremely sad and even shocking. so you don’t need to convince me that more needs to be done. now i’m going to restate that the commission, and myself personally, are committed to look at finding ways to end the illegal trade of cats and dogs. i do believe that the new animal health law will address many of these issues. it does have compulsory registration, finally, of establishments breeding cats and dogs, and we do now have, if not all the necessary measures, a great deal more necessary measures to help member states prevent and detect this unacceptable practice. but it is also important that we enforce the rules, and i think we all need to understand that these are not being enforced. all the stakeholders have an important role to play in this by developing guidelines, and i was very interested and i agree that we need to also have more public awareness campaigns of this problem. the new official controls regulation provides far stronger penalties and more tools to address online sales, and i believe that by working together we can stop the illegal trade of companion animals. it is a threat to the internal market and public and animal health, as well as animal welfare, and what i can commit to, as a commissioner, is that i will be looking at this even more closely and seeing how the animal health law is implemented and, if necessary, what else we can do.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank you for this useful debate on the protection of the internal market and consumer rights from the negative implication of illegal trade in companion animals. this is a complex issue which has to be tackled by member states’ competent authorities, which remain primarily responsible for ensuring, together with the commission, enforcement of the rules adopted by the co-legislators. the recently-adopted council conclusions on animal welfare are an important contribution for making further progress in this area. finally, let me also emphasise that we are looking forward to the continued discussion in the context of the eu platform on animal welfare in the working group on e-commerce.
in writing. – the illegal trade of companion animals is a highly organised criminal activity that puts animal and human lives at risk. the illegal dog trade alone impacts on approximately 8 million puppies annually, is the third most profitable organised crime network in the eu, and poses a massive public health risk to european citizens. illegally bred pets are seldom vaccinated. they can spread infectious diseases and cause a re-emergence of once-eradicated diseases. they are also subject to unequal and appalling living conditions, leading to genetic defects and behavioural problems. to fight the criminal trade in pets the eu must create a common definition of puppy and kitten farms. a common definition would eradicate differences in animal welfare standards, price inconsistencies and pet exploitation. we must also implement a mandatory, eu-wide system for pet identification and registration. all member states should provide registers of authorised pet breeder and sellers. i also encourage people to adopt animals instead of purchasing them. finally, i call on the commission to implement tougher sanctions for criminals participating in the illegal pet trade. member states must shut down these crime networks for the sake of our citizens’ health and the safety of our pets.
in writing. mr president, with the expansion of the pet trade online, more and more people are buying their pets online. in 2017, a survey of eu countries showed that more than half of them bought their pets online. however, in most eu countries there is no legislation on online animal trade. the lack of regulation fuels illegal trade and facilitates the activities of dishonest vendors. the illegal trade in pets increases the risk of disease in both animals and humans. in the absence of a clear indication of the origin of the animal, it is impossible to verify the authenticity of vaccination cards and passports. if the vaccination card is indeed falsified, the animal imported into a member state from abroad may spread animal diseases not found in the member state. pets may have hereditary diseases, puppies are born and raised in poor conditions, and the breeder may not care what kind of home the puppy ends up in. all of this, too, often comes back to the owner in suffering and financial loss. every cat and dog deserves a life worth living - like all other living things - without pain, fear or suffering. we need eu-level legislation on companion animals, including a pet-freeze and a european register.
in writing. i have long called for stronger measures to combat animal cruelty and illegal trade. smuggling and illegal trafficking are linked to drugs and weapons. the truth is that another illegal business is booming - the pet trade. in europe, there are nearly 400,000 dog auctions every day. given the price tag of hundreds of euros, it's clear what the annual profits are. according to europol, drug dealers make €24 billion a year, and the illegal trade in dogs is similar. the lack of a mandatory pan-european identification and registration system is a serious problem. it would limit the illegal sale of pets because it's easier to check the status of the animal - when it was born, who owned it, what vaccines it had. this will help to better control public health and better protect consumers. the system shall be linked to the animal passports so that they cannot be falsified. it is important that society impose civil control and insist on compliance with the legal requirements for animal welfare. it acts as a catalyst for change. i call on all responsible institutions to develop a european legal framework for the protection of pets and stray animals, aimed at tackling the illegal trade.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the extraordinary european council of 20 february 2020 on the multiannual financial framework (2020/2538 ((rsp)). i thank the president of the commission, mrs von der leyen, for her presence and i give the floor to mrs brnjac, who has spoken, and i thank her for her speech.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is my pleasure to address this assembly today to discuss the preparation for the special european council meeting on the multiannual financial framework (mff) that will take place on 20 february. following the presentation by the commission of its proposal for the next multiannual financial framework, the bulgarian, austrian, romanian and finnish presidencies worked hard at the technical and political levels to prepare the ground for an agreement. we have now entered a decisive phase. following the discussion at the december european council, the president of the european council has carried out extensive consultation with his counterparts. on this basis, he will submit, with a view to the general affairs council (gac) on 17 february, his proposal for a deal at the level of the european council. the croatian presidency fully supports the view that a deal must be found swiftly. this will not be easy, as we all know, but there is still, in many parts, an expectation gap between what we want to achieve at eu level and the funds to achieve these goals. however, postponement would not make things easier, quite the contrary. the departure of the uk creates a budgetary gap, further tightening the situation, with the union facing, at the same time, a number of new challenges and, hence, priorities. a balanced agreement reflecting the ambitious objectives of the strategic agenda at the level of the european council in february is necessary to open the way for concluding the negotiations on the many pending sectoral codecision files so as to be ready for the beginning of the new cycle in january 2021. the urgency to adopt the draft mff regulation at the council level also stems from the fact that this will not be the end of the road, since the european parliament must give its consent to this regulation. we are aware of the concerns and the positions expressed by the parliament. that is why, all along the process, the successive presidencies have taken great care to keep parliament informed, for instance, through regular meetings both before and after the general affairs council meetings discussing the mff, which will be the case next week as well. the croatian presidency will continue with this practice whenever the mff is on the gac formal agenda. moreover, that is also why the president of the european council has had several high-level contacts with the representatives of the parliament. once unanimous agreement is found at the level of the european council, the croatian presidency will work very hard with the parliament to ensure a positive outcome when the house votes on this regulation. reaching a timely and balanced agreement on the whole mff package, including the own resources part, is in the common interest of all institutions, member states, and their citizens. i very much hope that we will achieve that objective. the croatian presidency will do all it can in that respect.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in fact, we are having the extraordinary european council next week, and this is an important moment for europe. the starting point is in principle a good one, as all three institutions - parliament, council and commission - agree on the strategic agenda. we all know what's at stake. we have very clear common political objectives: europe should be the first climate neutral continent by 2050, not only because it is about the health of the planet - that is the main objective - but also because we know that behind it, if we develop a clean and environmentally friendly economy, there are new jobs that are sustainable and that therefore also mean the future. we want to benefit from the digital transformation in the world, and not just be passive, but we want to be active actors. and we want to empower people in europe by, on the one hand, cushioning the transition triggered by the ecological and digital transformation, and on the other hand, doing exactly the right thing, which is investing in education and training, especially with skills in the ecological and digital fields. but we are running out of time and let me make this very clear again: if the budget is not adopted soon, then next year we will not be able to use the new budget to finance the new priorities in the way we all imagine. and, therefore, after nearly two years of deliberations it is high time now. all of us must be ready to find common ground. and what is important: we have to find the right balance between old priorities and new priorities. because if you look at the negotiations, while there are many, many member states that strongly defend cohesion policies, and rightly so. and there are many member states which strongly defend the common agricultural policies, and rightly so. but i also expect to see the same dedication when it comes to defending our new priorities. because the day the budget will be signed, the day we have agreed on a budget - and i know that - everyone will turn around towards the parliament and towards the commission and will ask for: horizon europe, will ask for erasmus, ask for migration funds, for defence, for digitalisation, for infrastructure, you name it. and, therefore, we really have to make sure that these new priorities get the attention they deserve. we have to deliver on a european budget that is able to invest in digital start-ups, to explore the potential of artificial intelligence, to anchor europe's position as the world's leading research region, to offer young people a better future and all parts of europe, to address the root causes of migration, to allow us to demonstrate solidarity in cases of humanitarian or natural disasters, to allow to build the european union of security and defence. but, most of all, we need a budget so that citizens and companies see that we are able to act on climate change. for citizens this is the top priority. for us, it's a challenge, but it's our duty to turn this challenge into an opportunity. the success of these budgetary negotiations will depend on the means we will use to finance our green pact for europe. i will not accept any result which does not guarantee that at least 25% of the budget is devoted to the fight against climate change. the commission is also considering a budget which will allocate the new resources needed to the just transition mechanism. the reason is simple: if we do not provide the means to support regions and workers who are most exposed to the economic and social consequences of climate change policies, we simply will not succeed in achieving climate neutrality. the green pact for europe will be made with european citizens, european researchers and european businesses, or it will be made by everyone. i think, as do you, that the new resources of our own would be an important advance for the union. i therefore urge the member states to take full account of the european parliament's position in this regard. i am convinced that this will give a boost to our common programme and alleviate the pressure on national budgets, thus making it possible to allocate the additional funds needed. thus, it is really a win-win solution that we are looking for. honourable members, we all know the negotiations will not be easy. as a union of 27, as you said, we have fewer resources. its about eur 75 billion less for the whole 7-year period, but more common challenges that no member state can solve on its own. and at the same time, expectations towards the next long-term budget of the union could not be more diverse. as members of parliament, you are well aware of the discussions in your home countries, while you also see the different positions in the member states of your colleagues. arriving at an agreement will therefore be a serious challenge. we all know this. but we also know that citizens will not understand it if decision makers fail to make the funding available for policies needed. it is our common responsibility in the european council, and in the european parliament to deliver for europe. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the council has already taken a decision on the matter. when we talk about money, when we talk about budget, we talk about politics, about the future of europe. where can we focus? i would like to stress first of all that from our point of view it would have been good if charles michel had been here today. it would have been nice to have listened. we know that he is in close contact with our steering group, that he meets with the experts, but to be in the plenary has another meaning as well; that's why i want to say this at the beginning, that it would have been nice if he was there. but the good news is he set it to february 20th. he is putting pressure on the mff debate, he is trying to give answers, he is trying to achieve security for the citizens. the farmers, the students, the researchers - all are waiting for clarity on how things will proceed in the coming years. so, for the 20th, we wish him the best of luck. it's the right time to do this: we have a fresh mandate - we as members of parliament have a fresh mandate from the electorate, the commission has a fresh mandate. we are all equipped with new momentum and we know what the people have given us on the way after these european elections, and that is what we must now put into practice together. the first point is that we are making it clear at european level that it is not just a matter of defending the existing means. i would like to make it clear that we too are capable of self-criticism, and it must also be possible, during budgetary negotiations, to look first at whether the existing funds are being spent properly. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make use of them. that means looking at it in those areas with a real self-critical eye. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if one person in europe is getting large sums from the eu budget, then it cannot be right. we are in favour of a kind of anti-oligarchy law in the european union, where we make it clear that the money cannot end up in one hand. a second issue for us is that we also defend the existing funds and make it clear that they are well invested. farmers need support in global competition, rural areas need support in globalisation. regional funding is helping europe to grow together. that is right, and solidarity is still necessary. in the field of research, erasmus shows europe the european added value, the additional european advantage. thirdly, it is important for us not to be stingy with the future. agriculture is important, regional development is important - we have always stressed this in our positions - but we must not allow the momentum to develop now to cut back on the european union's future fields. i would like to see the council not just discussing the one per cent, not just discussing the ceiling, but actually talking about the substance. if the european council decides to put in place 10 000 frontex officers to better protect our external borders, it is unacceptable that the finnish presidency should reduce this share of the budget by a third. you either live up to your promises or you don't live up to your promises. the same is true of research. for example, our project, which is very important to us as the epp, is that in the fight against cancer we also need the necessary resources to be successful. i have already raised this with erasmus, and i thank johannes and also ursula von der leyen for the clarity with which they have made it clear that these issues must not be ignored. i would also like - and i say this as a german - to see the net contributor debate finally ended. ladies and gentlemen, if we build proper border protection in europe, if we build a marshall plan for africa, neither of these is money that will flow back to the netherlands, austria or germany, but it is in the deepest interest of the germans, the austrians and also the dutch. so let's stop this net-payer discussion. the best way of overcoming them would be to finally introduce the concept of own resources, if european tasks are financed with european funds, if the common interest of europeans is also financed with european funds, then that would be the best answer we can give. i would like to say explicitly that the council should know that for us as the epp group the question of own resources is also a red line. we need a systemic change in the way the european union is financed, and we will stress this in the further discussions. another systemic issue is the rule of law: europeans' tax money can only be spent if legal principles are respected. an independent judiciary, a free media landscape is the best guarantee that money is spent properly. and that is why we take the view that a combination of the rule of law and the mfr makes sense. and finally, david cameron has been very active in the last debate on the mff: just one per cent, just one per cent, just one per cent! the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. we have seen in the brexit example that if we feed the populists, if we give in to the populists, it will strengthen the populists, not weaken them. and that is why we need an ambitious approach now - not the lowest common denominator, but ambition for europe! (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of one of the most important debates of the european legislature, and one which will shape the future of the union. there's no point in setting goals for 2050 if we're just going to be tied up for the next seven years. we are all aware that we are at a crucial moment for europe. so does the council. that europe really needs to embark on a major transformation to lead the world in sustainability, a transformation in economic, social, environmental matters. of course that agenda of transformation is necessary. we all know that and so does the council. we must now be able to put the necessary means on the table to achieve this. the proposal of this parliament is very reasonable and addresses this need: 1.3% of gross national product, plus additional resources for new policies that have to be put in place, such as addressing just transition in this area. the proposal of this parliament is very clear and has a large majority of support from the various political groups. president von der leyen has stressed the need for this to be a geostrategic commission and for us to have our place in the world. and the president of the council, mr charles michel, has also alluded to the need to take the lead in the fight for climate neutrality in the world. now he has only to convince his colleagues in the council - and i also want to say at this point that we would have liked mr charles michel to be here today; perhaps he still has little to say, but he has a lot to hear. in order to convince the council partners, i think it is necessary to understand the great responsibility we face and it is necessary to have before us an agreement in which there are no winners and losers because then europe will be losing. this is not about taking money from one policy to put it into another. this is not about taking money from one region and putting it into another. i would like to remind you that it was jacques delors who launched the first multiannual programme. and he did so in the light of the need to make a great european agenda and that it should be above national interests. it was much more important to advance the solidarity of the european project. and that's the ambition we have to have at this time. i ask the heads of government for a european vision, because we are at an important moment and the future of the union project is also at stake right now. it is important that we understand that we must tackle once and for all the own resources discourse for those additional funds we need. it is a strong and ambitious budget. we can't do more with less. we need to address european policies for young people. we need to address european policies for the primary sector, for farmers and for livestock farmers. we need to address european policy to support new entrepreneurs, researchers. there are so many policies to which europe can now respond that we will not stop trying to pursue this issue. time passes and the clock runs. and we can say: 'in this parliament we are patient'. i'm just going to say two last questions. parliament decides on equal terms with the council and we will not give in to the pressure of time because the future of the european union is in our hands and it is the most important responsibility we have at the moment.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen how much is expected of europe to provide answers to the challenges we face: the financial crisis, the migration crisis, climate change... crisis after crisis, more and more calls are being made for europe. europe is needed more than ever; it is therefore necessary to adapt the budget to this new reality. i would like to commend the determination and commitment of charles michel, who, together with the croatian presidency, is seeking to reach an agreement on the european budget. we fully support him in doing so, but only if it is a good budget. europe is not just a matter of commitment, as we have made many political commitments in recent years. we also need to ensure that these commitments translate into tangible deeds for citizens. the adoption of a good budget shows the determination to act together. only when we align the budget with our political ambitions are we credible. the effects of climate change are tangible and call for solutions, as is the digital transformation, but we also need to modernise our common agricultural policy and our cohesion policy. all this calls for urgent action by the european union. i would like to stress three key points for my group. first, the size of the budget. we need the means to meet current and future challenges, and we cannot agree on great ambitions one day and then limit ourselves to achieving them the next. the credibility of the european union before its citizens is at stake in the way we align our political declarations with our capacity to act. secondly, the new own resources. the revenue side of the european budget must now be modernised and brought into line with the treaties. a real european budget calls for a strong own resource. the last reform in this area was made in 1988. it is now time to rethink and modernise this budget. third, a strong rule of law mechanism. we must have effective measures to protect the european budget when european values are under attack. my group is not prepared to compromise on the rule of law. erasmus, youth employment, security and defence, border protection and migration management - all these require a solid budget. after brexit, after the crises we have been through, we agree that we now need to renew the euro, and the budget decision must be proof that we are capable of doing so. the european parliament must not accept a compromise which undermines the credibility of a europe capable of acting for its citizens.
madam president, i want to talk about three aspects of the cohesion funds. the first aspect is the volume of these funds. if out of 100 euros a country like romania absorbs 60 euros, out of 60 euros it will absorb 36 euros. the investment will be negligible, the impact will be small. the second aspect is the co-financing and pre-financing rates. if these pre-financing and co-financing rates increase, some countries will simply abandon the cohesion funds. the third aspect is the timeframe within which payment applications can be submitted. at this point in time, it's been three years. if it suddenly drops to two years, in the context of which we will have delays in the current budget, it will also have an impact on absorption a negative impact.
president. - the european union is now entering a make-or-break phase in its existence: we are going to give in to the vested interests of yesterday, or we are going to dare to choose the shared interests of all europeans of this future. if it's up to me, it'll be the last. let the union dare to focus on the common challenges we face: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. that is what europeans look to this union for and what they want to be able to count on in this union of 27 member states. an automatic reflex for a higher budget is not appropriate in a smaller union. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. let us push for strict conditions on this european funding. if, for example, there is fraud or corruption in a country, or if the rules of democracy and the rule of law are not respected, then as far as i am concerned, turn off the money. let us not dwell on the east-west, north-south debate, but on a europe that is future-proof and that is fit for purpose: let's make it together.
madam president, please. first of all, the finnish government has really screwed this up. the finnish presidency's suboptimal performance, to put it mildly, has put us further away from the agreement than the bulgarian, romanian and austrian presidencies. the permanent president of the council has a great responsibility, and the croatian presidency has a great responsibility. the problem is that in the context of the work of the finnish presidency, a budget proposal which is unfair and unjust in its principles, logic and system is on the council's table and the heads of state or government will have to deal with it. it is unfair and unjust to take an approach, regardless of the size of the seven-year framework budget, that diverts money from the poorer eu member states to the richer eu member states. this is ridiculous. secondly, allow me to be a little bit disingenuous, but in the context of a budget debate, let's talk about numbers alongside the very important principles, values and policy statements. if you look at the difference between the smallest budget proposal and the largest, it's three hundred and fifty billion euros, which is a lot of money at first glance. this means that each eu citizen would have to contribute about 9 euros a month to the budget. we are talking about nine euros a month, i think that's the amount of money that the future of europe is worth.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the last negotiations on the mff, the heads of state or government reached an agreement on 8 february 2013. the first summit was held in november 2012 and discussed the multiannual financial framework. we know the rest of the story: the mff was formally adopted on 2 december 2013. it was only then that the operational programmes could be written, and this delay left project promoters stranded and in need of support from other bodies. 2014 was a lost year for the eu budget as former budget commissioner günther oettinger rightly put it, because there was almost no outflow of funds. so that means we're basically already too late today and on track to make 2021 a lost year again. after brexit, with the president in the white house, with the climate catastrophe and the global goal of making sustainability in all policy areas, are we really going to do this? and to all those in national budgets who are looking at their budgets, as i understand it, you are cordially invited to look at the proposals of this house for a better system of own resources. i think that might be a solution. the 20th of february is about showing agency. the european approach is based on the solution of common problems. that's what we should do!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union needs access to the money of the future mff as quickly, predictably and simply as possible. the €130 billion per year is the amount that the member states contribute to the budget proposed by the european commission for the next programming period. according to the same institution, more than €923 billion is going back to the member states of the european single market - a fantastic ratio. it is that for every euro invested, nine euros are returned to our countries. figures from commission sources show that belgium, at 4.36 billion euros invested, recovers 56.49 billion euros, the netherlands, at 6.85 billion euros, recovers 84 billion euros, austria, which invests 3.84 billion euros, recovers 35.61 billion euros, finland will contribute 2.22 billion euros and will receive 13.2 billion euros, and my country, romania, will contribute 2.41 billion euros and will gain 16.59 billion euros. we want the green deal, we want the european investment bank's money for clean energy projects, we want money invested in decarbonising industries, we want a digital superpower europe, we want to approve the cfm as soon as possible, because that's where it all starts, from the political agreement that is quickly assumed.
madam president, today we had a debate that shows how far apart we are from each other. moreover, we find that the ambition of new projects is widening and the funding resource for old and new projects is decreasing. i think we're in a very curious situation. the correct solution is for both the council and the commission to take parliament's view into account: a funding of 1.3% to enable us to maintain the cohesion programmes of the common agricultural policy and, above all, to implement the new, very important programmes. i would make one final observation: the reticence of net contributors is unwarranted. they have to take into account that the new member states have given them a market, they have to take into account that at the moment, for example, romania has lost 16 000 doctors and 220 000 engineers who are in the net contributing states. it is unfair to reduce cohesion programmes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this report, against this objection, because this madness must be stopped. you voted, dear colleagues on the left, against nuclear energy, which has been proven to be the safest and cleanest, you voted against gas pipelines, you voted against coal energy. with every action you take, you de-industrialise european countries, you export jobs outside the european continent. you are destroying the ability of societies to survive, to work and to prosper, and it is primarily the countries of central and eastern europe that are affected by all these changes. i understand your desire to make energy out of violets and daisies, but i assure you that's not going to happen. it's nice to dream of sunny parks, but at night, there's no sun. it's very nice to think that with carlson's windbreaks you'll achieve something, but the wind is a variable thing. so i'm glad that here is a pole in the wheel of this political madness that the so-called "green theme" is becoming.
mr president, this pci list, which is the list of eligible projects on which we voted today, is part of a larger whole, part of the ten-e regulation, where we are waiting for the commission to come up with a better regulatory framework very soon. i was the cef negotiator for this coming financial period. it brought the criteria closer to the european union's political will to respond to the challenges of climate change. the important message that has emerged from the chamber and from this week's discussions today is that the commission must also make these lists compatible with its political objectives in order to achieve the transition to a low-carbon economy and the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050. i myself voted in favour of this list, although it is not exhaustive, since it also includes three quarters of the projects for improving the electricity networks. i think we must now pay attention to the fact that these projects are being applied for. i don't know if many of you here have examples of projects that have not been funded. they have not been applied for and now the new legislation must include energy efficiency, smart grids and others much better.
madam president, i was one of the 443 meps who did not support this objection to the 4th pci list. i believe the projects on this list are important for the creation of a well-functioning internal energy market in the eu, as i support the ambition of a stable, secure and affordable supply of energy. additional investments will, of course, create jobs and growth in the regions concerned. the list of energy projects comes as a package, and i support it as a package. this list contains a number of key projects across the european union that will help us meet all objectives of the energy union. in ireland, these include a number of important new projects, including the celtic interconnector (ireland’s proposed electricity interconnection with france), additional electricity connections between ireland and the uk, and the proposed silvermines renewable hydroelectric power station. these are all important elements of ireland’s move towards renewable energy and, notably, our objective of reaching 70% renewable electricity by 2030. while i understand concerns about the inclusion of gas projects, projections show that gas will play an important role in transition by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the power-generating industrial and commercial, residential and transport sectors by replacing more co2-intensive fossil fuels like coal and oil.
madam president! i am strongly opposed to all forms of violence against women, especially female genital mutilation. this practice is also common in the european union. it is a brutal form of mutilation, especially of young girls, which is why i voted for this resolution. unfortunately, some political groups did not refrain from promoting their ideological ideas in this resolution as well. that's why i didn't support most of j's motive. while genital mutilation may be equated with forced marriage, including child marriage in particular, it is not comparable to the lack of comprehensive sex education. the wording of recital j, paragraphs 5 and 21, in which the expression 'sexual and reproductive health' is used, also raises doubts. while it is true that the perinatal care of women with disabilities requires special efforts, we strongly oppose the interpretation of this wording as access to abortion. i also disagree with paragraph 20 which deals with the union's ratification of the istanbul convention.
madam president, i naturally supported this resolution because female genital mutilation is totally unacceptable, it is a crime against humanity, against human rights. it would be good if, on the basis of this resolution, the states really, at least in europe, cooperated more closely and fought this crime. if we could reduce the number of such crimes in europe considerably and if this resolution had not been merely a matter of words but had had a real impact, in the sense that the police and the criminal justice authorities of the member states would be more active in seeking out and condemning such crimes in the european courts. this is probably the only way to eradicate this abhorrent practice from the eu in the future. from the point of view of third countries, i think that economic support should be linked to the way in which countries approach human rights and therefore the protection of women's rights.
madam president, our vote was abstention. we are totally against female genital mutilation, but it cannot be considered just a form of discrimination against women. putting it in the same bag, as this document proposes, is part of the problem. it goes way beyond that. it is a way of not considering women as persons, of wanting to kill their initiative, their desires, their essence. it is only intended to make women slaves, and although this text denies this, it is a matter of religion; it is something entirely cultural; it is not only man against woman, it is also woman against woman, women against women. this painful issue has been used to mobilize us en masse towards the feminist agenda, while whitewashing those who promote this appalling practice. in the environment of western values, of christian values, women have never had this kind of unprotected. the promotion of these values is urgent, it is our compass in the face of such confusion. there can be no successful strategy if we ignore the causes of the problem.
madam president, human beings are not property. children are not property. we all state very loudly and clearly that we want to make our own choices, especially when we are talking about our own bodies. four million girls every year are in danger of having that right taken from them. four million girls between the ages of 1 month and 15 years old are at risk of undergoing female genital mutilation (fgm) for no reason other than that the parents or the grandparents or somebody in the family considers that it is nice to do it, or it is culturally appropriate. there are no health benefits from this procedure, and there are too many health hazards involved – from infection to excessive bleeding, from physical discomfort to sterility and to child death. we cannot allow these practices to go on in europe. we cannot allow these girls, who have become european, to be taken away in countries where the practices are still in high fashion, to be mutilated. we have to protect their human rights – and not to be mutilated is one very important right of girls, of women. if we want them to become strong, healthy members of our society, if we want them to become protectors of human rights, we have to protect them now, when they need it most. i voted for this resolution, and i think this is a big start.
madam president, i voted for this resolution. i think it's very important that we pay proper attention to the whole mechanism of automated decision-making, and i think technology is affecting our daily lives in a positive way, but we have to think very hard and find the mechanisms that are necessary to regulate this process to protect consumers. first, artificial intelligence is hugely important and has penetrated all areas, but the end-consumers, especially children, need to be protected. because transparency is key in this mechanism, the end-user must have access to how artificial intelligence and automated processes affect our daily lives. more transparency is therefore needed, which is why i supported this resolution.
madam president, we are in a situation where we are already talking about the uk in the past, which is no longer in the eu, but we have an obligation to build a special relationship with the uk. which is why i think we need to look at this in three ways. first of all, there are many britons in the uk who did not want britain to leave the european union. second: there are 3.5 million european citizens in the uk today, and they don't have to suffer because populist politicians have brought britain to this point. and thirdly: all our political action must start from the premise that at some point britain will return to the european union.
madam president, i am very pleased that over 600 members have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution against the illegal transport of animals across europe. it is a very strong signal that the ep wants to tackle this terrible activity of smugglers and illegal breeders, and i hope that the ec will prepare clear measures on the basis of this resolution to prevent tens of thousands of puppies and kittens from the eastern part of the eu being transported in terrible conditions to the western eu countries every year and sold there. it is good that this resolution has such support, and i call on the commission to finally stop playing down this issue and really start paying attention to it. as i said yesterday, no member state can solve this problem on its own. it is a european problem and i thank the proposers for bringing this proposal forward.
madam president, i have, of course, supported this motion as co-rapporteur and rapporteur. i am very glad that only three of our colleagues were against, otherwise this motion has clearly found cross-cutting support. i also agree that it is not ambitious or feasible to tackle this in isolation in individual member states. this illegal behaviour, a lucrative business for a group of smugglers must really be tackled by the ec together with the member states. the cross-border effect is quite clear: animals are suffering, consumers are being deceived, unfair competition is taking place, our internal market is being distorted, these are all the negatives that really call for action, especially from the ec. i was a little disappointed yesterday by the commissioner's speech, but i firmly believe that the commission will realise how many hundreds of thousands of consumers, i would say millions of deceived families, are turning their eyes to the commission today, and i firmly believe that the commission will act.
madam president, two weeks ago, i had the pleasure to organise a debate in my hometown of arad, romania, regarding this issue, with animal lovers. i am glad to see that pets, our best friends, have come to the attention of the european union and that today we are voting on a motion on this. it is time that we stopped the illegal pet trade. trade in cats and dogs must have at the centre the welfare of the animals and the joy they bring to their new owners, not just financial gain. they become part of our families. they are not just objects to buy. because of that – because of the role they play in our lives – i think it is time to do much more for them. we cannot stop at regulating the trade. we need to consider the lives of the pets too. there are many dogs and cats that are abandoned when humans do not want them anymore. it is a sad reality and any ngo dealing with abandoned pets can give you many sad details about this ugly side of being a pet. this must be regulated, too. what do we do with the litters of the dogs that the owners do not want? what do we do with the kittens found in sealed bags, discarded at the side of the road? they are not in the trade market. we have to think of european legislation to protect them, too. these unwanted puppies and kittens also deserve our attention. we should be doing something for them. *****
i now give the floor to thierry mariani, who would like to make a personal statement on mr glucksmann's speech before the vote.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 162) on a social europe in a digital world (2020/2550(rsp)). i would like to inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted.
author. – madam president, first of all, thank you for this opportunity. i guess that digital technologies provide us with a big opportunity of possibilities at our fingertips and never before have people had so many opportunities to learn, to communicate, to participate or to create. unfortunately, a lot of europeans still lack the necessary digital understanding and skills in order to fully embrace the opportunities of the digital revolution. yesterday, we celebrated the safer internet day, but one day a year might not be enough to stress the importance of media competence and safety. european education systems, therefore, must be modernised across europe to prevent a digital divide in society. i would like to thank, in particular, the finnish presidency at that time for providing european citizens with free access to online courses on artificial intelligence (ai). ai can have enormous benefits for people and society, but we have to put humans – and this is important for us – in first place. employment and social policies must keep pace with the digitalisation of our labour markets. we need a social contract for the new world including minimum wages, strengthening collective bargaining and, in particular, the right to disconnect. we need, also, to create fair working conditions for workers, no matter whether offline or online. and we have to tackle the tech giants, their abusive market—dominant power and create a level playing field and taxes should be paid where profits are generated. the european union to needs to have a new legal framework on artificial intelligence and robotics, including a guarantee for upholding fundamental rights. the eu commission will present the white paper on ai next week. it should tackle this ethical aspect of ai, legal safeguards and liability. the algorithms must be free of bias. ai must not discriminate on the grounds of gender or ethnicity, and we say, ‘no ai without ethics’. therefore, we urge the european commission to come forward with a regulatory framework for this. large sets of data are key for ai applications. they will fuel them. cambridge analytica and clearview – these companies are the most prominent examples for the invasive use and abuse of their personal data. voter manipulation and deepfakes, for example, are serious threats to our democracies. the digital revolution is nothing new, and it has been going on for years, but we constantly need to find new answers to the new technologies. just a reminder, the general data protection regulation (gdpr), for example, took almost six years from the start until adoption and this shows us that artificial intelligence, surveillance and facial recognition are already rolled out across the european union and we need to hurry up in structuring them. it is our duty as the european parliament and representatives of the people of the european union to make sure that nobody is left behind. the european digital agenda must be based on our european values and should offer opportunities for everyone.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this debate today. it is indeed important to reflect on how the union can, within its competences, help to ensure that an increasingly digitalised europe remains recognisable as the social europe we know. our social market economy is our competitive advantage globally. we need to defend it but also to adapt it to the changing world. digitalisation is a broad and cross-cutting transformation process which presents opportunities and risks. it can be an engine for innovation and the creation of new quality jobs. it can increase labour productivity. it can enhance the well—being of workers, thereby also contributing to the reconciliation of work and private life. it can also offer new opportunities to people from vulnerable groups, including persons with disabilities. as with any change, however, there are also risks which we need to be aware of. the eu stands at the forefront in efforts to ensure that technological developments result in social equitable benefits and in protecting those at risk of falling behind. eu member states played an important role in the 2019 ilo declaration on the future of work, which they promptly endorsed and promoted. today i would like to address three aspects related to digitalisation, which we can already see will have a significant impact on our lives: first, required skills; second, the platform economy; and third, the broader social impact of digitalisation. on skills: the impact of digitalisation on the labour market is twofold. first, it increases the demand for highly-skilled workers and other workers with the right skills. second, certain jobs change significantly or even disappear. this risks increasing structural unemployment, creating new inequalities and leading to the polarisation of the labour market due to a loss of intermediate-level jobs. we already observe a skills mismatch today with the skills shortage, notably in ict but also in related fields like engineering, mathematics, science and technology. in these fields, we also observe a high gender imbalance. this is likely to get worse if we do not react. to face this, we need to take into account the impact of the digital revolution over the whole human life cycle, from early childhood to old age. no one should be left behind, and well-being is an important factor in this regard. both women and men are needed to fill the shortage in ict skills across all occupations and sectors. education and training systems should systematically prevent and combat stereotypes and discrimination. collaboration between all stakeholders is vital for the successful management of tomorrow’s job requirements. the social partners play a crucial role in this process, helping to maintain the adaptability of the labour force. regarding the platform economy, we all struggle to clearly define what is meant by this widely-encompassing term. digital platforms bring service providers and their customers into direct contact. many platforms work with people who are formally self—employed but who depend economically and organisationally on the platform. this form of organisation often has a negative impact on the level of pay, social protection, occupational health and safety, the right to paid leave, and other aspects. effective social dialogue at all levels and a balance in the bargaining power is indispensable for securing a fair and equitable future of work, but it is difficult for platform workers to organise their presentations, as they often do not know each other. the council has already addressed a number of issues related to new forms of work. decent working conditions must be ensured for all, regardless of changes in employment patterns and, where necessary, by adapting the national legislative frameworks. at union level, a first step has been made with the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions adopted in june last year, which notably protects on—demand workers. the recommendation on access to social protection for workers and the self—employed, adopted by the council in december, makes explicit reference to platform workers. it recommends that member states provide access to social protection for all, including the self—employed. the council also highlighted that social protection policies should be balanced with making work pay policies. in this regard, it is important that people in a non—standard employment relationship can also benefit from collective bargaining. on a number of occasions, the council has made it clear that workers in new forms of work should also be adequately protected in terms of occupational health and safety, irrespective of the size of the enterprise or the type and duration of the employment relationship. the council also stressed the need to ensure an effective implementation and enforcement of eu law on working conditions and health and safety, including for new forms of work. a better understanding of platform work is a prerequisite for defining further policy responses. in this respect, we look forward to the platform work summit organised jointly by the future german presidency and the commission in october 2020. thirdly, and finally, regarding the social impact, changes related to digitalisation have different impacts on different actors. on one hand, people can organise their work more flexibly and, on the other hand, face—to—face interactions decrease and constant connectivity means that people can never truly disconnect. new job opportunities can be created, for example for rural populations or people with disabilities. working people have access to better tools to perform their jobs more efficiently. at the same time, employers are provided with better tools to monitor and optimise output efficiency. to conclude, technological development is inevitable and should be embraced. fostering the development of new technologies will give us more control over the direction it takes, to make it more ethical and human-centred. as policy-makers, we should be aware of the full picture and make informed decisions, without forgetting that our social market economy remains one of our strongest assets.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital transformation will have, and is already having, unprecedented repercussions on our economies, our societies, the way we work, communicate and consume. the question of employment is certainly at the heart of the questions. how many jobs will be lost, replaced by robots? what is already certain is that the majority of jobs will be transformed. new jobs will emerge as others disappear or undergo profound changes. it is expected that ai and robotics alone will create nearly 60 million jobs worldwide over the next five years and already today, it has been mentioned, nearly one million ict jobs are vacant, due to a lack of candidates with the right qualifications. this is the main concern of many companies, especially smes, who cannot find qualified staff. it is also a major challenge for our employment and skills policies. we have acted on the green transition by launching the just transition fund for regions and people most affected by these changes. similarly, we need to strengthen much more our employment and social policies to anticipate and manage the disruptive changes expected from digitalisation. there are and it has already been mentioned a lot of very good opportunities, but there are also risks of widening inequalities and more precariousness. over 90% of jobs now require some level of digital skills, as does participation in society at large, yet 43% of the eu population have an insufficient level of digital skills and 17% have none at all. next month we will propose a new skills agenda to address the skills challenges through concrete instruments and this challenge is huge because, according to a lot of forecasts, about half of the european workforce, meaning more than 120 million people have to be re-skillled or upskillled. so, we have three major goals. the first one is engaging employers to upscale their training provision, and for that purpose, we want to launch a skills pact committing companies, committing the business community to invest in their workforce. second, we have to step up public and private investment in training according to this need i just mentioned. and third, we have to empower people to invest in their own skills and qualifications. many of our post 2020 initiatives will address these challenges linked to digitalisation. the european social fund plus (esf+) will support projects, such as the creation of eschools with digitally trained teachers or training unemployed people for ict jobs. and i'm working on a reinforced youth guarantee to provide a much stronger coverage of digital skills. nonstandard forms of work are on the rise, and come with flexible but also very often with inadequate working conditions, insufficient access to social protection, decreased coverage by social dialogue and absence of a right to collective representation. this challenges our labour laws and social protection systems and calls for a rethink of existing models to match the needs of old and new work arrangements and ensure decent working conditions, inclusion and high level of social protection. the digitisation is changing notions of work of employer/employee relationships and of workplaces and it is absolutely indispensable that we create some clarity in this new world of work. new technologies also blur the lines between work and private life. this creates new physical and mental health risks and, therefore, the right to disconnect has to be dealt with. the use of data in employment has led to new algorithm-based management and an increased profiling in social protection provision. these can improve productivity but also increase control on individuals and surveillance of workers' performance. it raises questions of protection of personal data; we should pay attention to this in the context of the regulation of artificial intelligence. we need accessible and interoperable digital technologies in order to exploit the potential of digitalisation to increase the autonomy of persons with disabilities and to boost their participation in society and the economy. the digital transformation must also be an opportunity in the context of the demographic challenges we face in particular in relation to our aging population and the existing rural and remote areas. we should also pay special attention to the gender gap that exists in the digital world. europe has to be a competitive and innovative player in the digital economy. new initiatives on the digital services act and artificial intelligence will play a key role, while also addressing risks of bias and discrimination. on 22 september i'm organising together with executive vice president vestager, a summit on platform work where we discuss how to improve working and social conditions on online platforms. beyond this, we have launched the process leading to an action plan on the european pillar of social rights, because the principles of the pillar should also apply fully to the new digital world of work. the pillar frames our social strategy to make sure that the transition towards a digital and climate neutral society is socially fair and sustainable.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by thanking mr ismail ertug for putting this subject on the agenda here today, and thus, so to speak, for linking the social dimension and the debate we are having here on social europe with this important subject, digitalisation. thank you very much. i share much of what has been said here. in the discussions we are still having, we must not overlook the fact that we have seen fundamental changes in the world of work in the european union over the last 20 years: on the one hand, working conditions have changed completely - the keyword is 'on-demand work', but also 'crowd workers' and 'click workers' - but on the other hand, we now have a completely different way of working in many places. we all have these devices in our pockets, and we all know how difficult it is to have these devices in your pocket, to have to go to work at some point and to be able to turn them off at some point. it is very important to me that in the discussions we are having now we assess the opportunities on the one hand, but also the risks, in a sober and objective way, and look at where we need to intervene and where we need to support. i am convinced that the european union is not only a great example of the european union, but also a great example of the european union. this must be the guiding principle of our policy work in this field.
the s&d group. - mr president, in 10 years' time, people's work will look very different thanks to digital technologies that we do not even know today. that can open up a lot of opportunities, but we have to push change in the right direction. already, platform workers, such as the uber drivers in amsterdam, are demanding a fair income. they ask for normal working hours and they ask for influence on the ratings, because with one bad rating, they know they're the boss. they know what it means when algorithms determine your work. there's another way. that is why we in europe must focus on digitisation that is about people, with good jobs and with a decent income. we need strong and social european rules for the platform economy and we are very keen to agree on those rules at the platform work summit announced for 22 september.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we europeans believe in democratic values and a citizen-oriented democracy means an inclusive society in which citizens have access to and benefit from the opportunities offered by the eu. we owe this to our citizens. the european union is well known as a champion of legislation, regulation, directives that have brought positive changes alright, but this time law is not enough. it must be accompanied by concrete action for a bold objective to transform the eu into a champion of innovation in digital. alas, we are lagging behind. we cannot do this when almost one out of five eu citizens had no digital skills in 2017 and the situation is no different now. digital literacy and skills are key pillars of adapting european citizens to a labour market that is constantly transforming and changing our work arrangements. this is the priority, the key priority of today and tomorrow. we need to answer the daily concerns of european citizens by providing them ways of adapting to the new challenges and opportunities to develop new skills and access to the labour market. the question is how, and the best way we can do this is by literally investing in people this time. we need investments that can bring together expertise and capital from the public, private and non-profit sectors together in order to ensure the digital transformation that we want to put forward is paving the way for all citizens to achieve a high level of well-being and overcome inequalities of technological use at eu level. what if we established an eu public-private fund that will invest immediately and massively in digital literacy and skills, based on the principle of social impact investment? we have investeu. we have the private sector recognise the importance of digital education. what do we wait for? the impact is also easy to monitor the measure. i launch hereby, a call for action to invest in digital education for a more competitive and social europe and thus expanding opportunities provided by digital technology so that the children of today successfully shape the renewed digital europe of tomorrow.
madam president, there is actually a long list of things that i would like to put into this gender equality strategy. i will only focus on two, because i believe they are absolutely crucial. the first one is indeed to have a legal proposal on the gender pay gap. it’s long overdue, and maybe we could suggest that it has the title: ‘we only waited 63 – i repeat 63 – years for the eu to make a proposal on the question of pay equality’. i think that would serve the purpose. the second issue that i believe is absolutely crucial – and colleagues have said this – is to have a directive against gender-based violence. the accession to the istanbul convention is not enough. the backlash against women’s rights is getting stronger across the european union, and we need to have a clear position to stand up to that. i really believe that, with trump in the us, with putin in russia and with bolsonaro in brazil, the european union, despite the problems that we have in this union, is still the beacon of hope and freedom for feminists around the world. this gender—equality strategy really is one of the chances that we have to live up to their expectations, and that’s why we need to make it a success. (applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the european union will have its own gender equality strategy in a few weeks' time, and that is good news, and it is excellent news, considering that we did not have a strategy in the last legislature. so we welcome this news, we support it, commissioner, we welcome it because europe is certainly the part of the world where women enjoy more rights and where gender inequality is less. but much, much, much remains to be done. we are told by statistics, the wage gap in pensions, the residual, i would say ridiculous, percentages of women sitting in top positions. but they also tell us dramatically the news. newspapers and social media are full of reports of discrimination, harassment, mobbing, violence against women and girls, which constitute an unbearable limitation on our freedom and our lives. that is why we need binding measures, commissioner, not a list of good intentions. we must have binding measures and therefore a directive against violence, a directive introducing binding measures, to avoid this tragedy of our sisters who were annihilated first in spirit and then killed by murderers, who have a name and a surname, but also by a patriarchal culture.
madam president, commissioner dalli, i came prepared initially with a formal speech, which i abandoned to convey rather a more direct emotional message. and for all the men who still see gender equality as a minor, marginal issue, i invite you to think about how you would like to be treated as a mother, sister, daughter. from the importance of equal opportunities to the dramatic issue of verbal or physical violence against women. as the father of four children, all boys, i feel it is my duty to teach them the core values and to teach them to actively fight for a society with equal rights and equal opportunities between women and men. we need to internalize the importance of the problem of gender stereotypes and prejudices, which still develops in the european union misogynistic attitudes, disregard for women, verbal and even physical violence. it's crucial that we start fighting here, especially us men, to become guarantors in the fight against violence against women. we all have that obligation. the strategy that we're proposing has exactly the value that we're going to give it by how each of us personally act going forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years have passed since the beijing platform for action, but gender discrimination is still unfortunately present. to this day, she wonders what a woman who was raped wore. there are two countries within the european union which do not allow abortion and member states which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention. in europe, women earn 16% less than their male colleagues and it is considered normal for women to sacrifice their careers for care services. for 25 years, we've been filling our mouths with proposals. today, on the eve of the un conference, i call on europe to say with one voice that we will no longer accept this stalemate. women's sexual and reproductive rights must be guaranteed everywhere, in particular access to contraception, safe and legal abortion, health care and education in schools. gender equality must be at the heart of the climate change challenge, because it is women who will suffer the worst impacts. i have confidence in you, commissioner, and i have confidence in a woman who is leading the european commission.
mr president, since the beijing declaration women’s rights have experienced some progress but quite significant backlash also. we haven’t been able to make any significant progress at convention level internationally, not to push women more in politics or other leading positions increase the use of quotas and we know that the funding for women’s organisations for sexual and reproductive rights has been decreasing globally. so i wholeheartedly look very happily towards the new commission and its initiative to have the equality programme and hopefully seek the leadership globally to push women’s rights and gender rights on the next level on the ongoing negotiations, including proper metering with the sdgs, including gender budgeting, including gender impact assessment of politics and, of course, including the istanbul convention and hopefully with africa strategy some better funding for the female ngos.
mr president, we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the fourth world conference on women, which was held in beijing in 1995. it was a point and a part. and it was the most visionary agenda for women's equality globally. the changes have been desperately slow and we must now, at the united nations this march, evaluate this conference. they have been slow because there is still the wage gap - we said that - the pension gap, low-quality employment and little employment for women, difficulties in reconciliation, few women in decision-making, gender violence and a long list of other things. that is why we must maintain a common position at the united nations in march. we have to be ambitious. the year 2020 is going to be a decisive year. we all have a responsibility - we can't leave anyone behind - and we all have it, not only at the collective level, but also at the individual level. i want to tell you that environmental sustainability is fundamental to the planet, but also sustainability of women's dignity, of justice and equality.
mr president, minister, commissioner, equality between women and men is a basic principle enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights. this principle should be integrated into all the union's policies and its external action throughout the world. it is crucial that we achieve a positive outcome at the next session of the un commission on the status of women, taking a leading role in the implementation of women's and girls' rights and gender equality. we are the largest donor of development aid, which makes us proud. we must also be at the forefront of women's empowerment, combating violence and exclusion, promoting opportunities for education, employment and female entrepreneurship. i hope that an ambitious commitment will be reached and that the intentions will be put into practice, materializing the 2030 agenda and the millennium development goals.
mr president, commissioner, i want this new strategy to become a real revolution in human rights, not just at european level, and to be backed up by concrete and binding measures. i am in favour of this being put into a european directive and i would ask for it in the house, but i am appalled by the small number of members, mostly men, i think less than five at the moment in the chamber. the healthy, easy-to-implement solution would be to adopt the single european citizenship, my dream project, which would make it very clear that the rights and obligations are the same for everyone. so i'm asking you today to support this initiative.
mr. chairman, the level of equality for women that exists in the western world is unfortunately not present in other cultural and civilized circles. the european union has the opportunity to promote women's rights and gender equality in a genuine way through global fora and international organisations such as the un. in some cultures, women are so undervalued that society puts great pressure on pregnant women to abort female children. in these cultures, the number of male children is disproportionately high, and it's for precisely this reason. girls are not even given the chance to be born and we must fight against this with all our might. i believe that one of the union's main priorities at the un commission on the status of women should be to fight for life from conception and to put an end to the appalling practice of abortion of girls which is unfortunately widespread in certain cultures.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the eu will approach the 64th session of the commission on the status of women with a high level of ambition. it will, from an early stage, engage with all countries in an open and constructive spirit. our ultimate goal is the adoption of a consensual concise and action-oriented political declaration. this should reaffirm the beijing declaration and platform for action and outcomes of their review conferences. the overall objective of the eu is to reaffirm the full validity of the international acquis on gender equality, the full enjoyment of all human rights by all women and girls, and their environment. we are all responsible for making things happen. each eu institution plays a crucial role. i am proud to say that the council has consistently played an active part in advancing gender equality in europe and beyond. we look forward to continued cooperation with the european parliament in the field of gender equality, and i would like to thank you for being so active in keeping this vital topic high on the eu’s agenda.
in writing. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the eu, enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights. gender mainstreaming is therefore an important tool for mainstreaming this principle in all eu policies, measures and actions, as well as in its external dimension. it is inconceivable that any discrimination between men and women should continue to exist. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. this fight must be waged at every level until equality between men and women is a reality and a reality for all.
the rapporteur. it's been a long road, but we've made it. the existence of forged documents undermines internal security in the schengen area, which is an area of free movement without border controls. this new law addresses this problem by ensuring that there is enhanced cooperation between the european union member countries together with partner countries, to take steps on the authenticity or falsification of documents. this will guarantee greater security at the external borders and the safety of the citizens we represent. we know that the only way we can enjoy the benefits of the schengen area is for our citizens to have confidence in the management of the external borders. and this law is instrumental and essential in all this - borders, security and the fight against crime. the new law will help to identify and seize documents that have been forged. this law provides a framework for doing this in a timely manner and with the assistance of frontex, which is also responsible for sharing information with all participating countries, which are assisted and informed on how to catch situations where there is forgery of documents. the law clarifies the role of frontex in the establishment of fado. we have strengthened the provisions of this law so that fado includes more information than it does today. we want uniformity and consistency in the level of information fado has on the authenticity, falsification and encryption of documents and for the information to be centralised. we also wanted frontex to have the necessary flexibility to establish and improve fado. we have ensured that the agency has drawn up a new document on effective measures to identify methods of counterfeiting. we have of course done everything we could to bring personal data into line with european laws. the result should lead to greater protection and at the same time a tighter guarantee of safety. fado is essential in the fight against counterfeiting particularly at the external borders. the participation of countries that are not partners in the european union but participate in the schengen area is also crucial because it ultimately has a positive impact on the security of the external borders. it may seem like a very technical system, but it is one that i think we all agree is essential to complement the reform of european borders and the protection of the same borders. in these negotiations we have done our best to broaden the responsibilities that fall under this regulation. this while lowering the agency's specific responsibilities and ensuring that the processing of personal data by the agency and the member states complies with european laws. we also ensured that parliament has a greater role in fado. finally, i would like to thank the council, the finnish and croatian presidencies, as well as my colleagues from each political group for the very constructive work we have done. i look forward to this debate in this plenary and then to the conclusion after everyone has spoken.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate. our citizens consider security one of their top concerns and expect the eu to deliver. security and freedom go hand in hand, so we need to create a safe space for all europeans. being safe is indispensable to live, enjoy rights, work, study and it is also indispensable for the economy. every person present in europe has the individual right to be safe. the 2019 eurobarometer on attitudes towards cybersecurity published recently shows, however, that two thirds of respondents are concerned about falling victim to identity theft. moreover, a well-functioning schengen area of free movement requires a common policy on the eu external borders. we need to effectively monitor and control persons crossing the external borders for the benefit of all of us. the need to strengthen our internal security and our eu external borders has led to the adoption of a variety of recent legislative acts, for example, the european travel and information and authorisation system, the entry-exit system, the regulation of inter-operability between eu information systems and the new european border and coast guard regulation. today, we have another example, which is the new false and authentic documents online system: a european image database supporting member states in the recognition of authentic and false documents. i thank both the european parliament and the council for your constructive work on this final compromise that ensures real added value. the new false and authentic documents online system is very useful for border guards when performing border checks. it provides information to member states’ authorities on new forgery methods and new genuine documents in circulation. it contains thousands of descriptions of authentic documents, hundreds of descriptions of false documents, covering more than 30 participating countries, and more than 180 third countries’ international organisations. it helps to detect attempts at identity theft for purposes of irregular migration. the final political agreement will further improve the functioning of the false and authentic documents online system by transferring its management to the european border and coast guard agency. security is a top concern for citizens. they expect the eu to deliver in this area as every citizen has the right to feel and be protected. the rise of threats posed by organised crime, terrorism and the drug market are poison to our societies. this is why the commission has announced a new security union strategy for the second quarter of this year. as part of the strategy, on internal security, there will be a focus on three priority areas: organised crime, which would include drugs, firearms, corruption, trafficking in human beings, terrorism and radicalisation, and fighting crimes in a digital age. strong borders to support the area of free movement, which is emblematic for our union, will also be a key element of the new pact on migration, as announced in the political guidelines of president von der leyen. in this respect, the timely implementation of all eu information systems will be a key objective of our comprehensive approach to migration, focusing on both external borders and security, but equally on strong and resilient internal procedures, stepping up the legal pathways and fostering integration into our societies. i thank you again for your support and look forward to this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, document fraud seriously undermines internal security and the schengen area as a zone without internal border controls. the use of fake documents by foreigners seeking a better life in europe is common, and the price of one such document can reach up to 5-6 thousand euros. fraudulent documents are one of the main contributing factors to terrorism and organised crime and are linked to both drug, arms and stolen car smuggling, human trafficking and, especially in recent years, the trafficking of migrants. it is not uncommon for authentic travel documents to be obtained on the basis of false identity documents. that's what makes them so hard to detect. in this regard, it is crucial to enhance the security of travel documents issued in the european union, including the related identity management infrastructure. on the other hand, cooperation between different authorities should go beyond law enforcement activities, as it requires liaison with the authorities issuing documents as well as with international organisations, airlines, shipping companies and others. in view of all this, i call on you to support the proposal to integrate the online system for forged and authentic documents into the european border and coast guard as a final step towards completing its reform.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner dalli, do the member states of the european union have the right and the responsibility to control who enters the schengen area of free movement? the answer is yes. is there a problem with the growth and proliferation of false documents and identity fraud in this area of free movement? once again, the answer is yes. is that a security risk? yes, to the extent that it may lead to crime, money laundering from illicit business or even terrorism. does the european parliament have anything to say? the answer is yes; we are saying it. we are ready to support an instrument that ensures the storage, exchange and verification of false documents, to combat fraud, and we are ready to rely on the european border and coast guard agency, which we have strengthened with the regulation we adopted in 2019, to be responsible for sharing that information in a secure way with the member states, with the european union, with international relations and, ultimately, with all entities that may be relevant to account for the true identity of persons enjoying free movement in the schengen area. our demand is always that this is compatible with the work we have done to guarantee data confidentiality, fundamental rights. in short, the founding values of the european union. but it is a fact that we have to combat the relative insecurity of people moving around in our schengen area with all the technological tools available and with the necessary legal guarantee. and that is why we have also supported the interoperability of all this data, always insisting that all this be done in full respect of the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, ms metsola, for her work. as a new member of this house working on my first legislative file, i very much appreciated her lead. now on substance. verifying the authenticity of travel documents has been turning for quite some time into a pressure point in the work of border guards, because of time constraints, the tremendous increase in the number of travellers in europe, and the diversity of travel documents that are being used. furthermore, the sophistication of forgery techniques has been a constant challenge for our law enforcement officials. the new fado system has already been in use for some time, serving these needs. what we are now doing, and this is very important, is to bring it from the intergovernmental into the community method by adding it to the list of instruments entrusted to the ebcga (european border and coast guard agency) as part of the enlarged mandates that we decided to give last year. this means increased accountability towards, and scrutiny by, this house, and higher safeguards in the regime applicable to the data contained therein and the measurement of access rights. the protection of personal data was one of the main issues that we had to deal with during the negotiations of this file, and we made sure that the processing of personal data is limited to what is strictly necessary for the purpose of detecting or investigating document fraud. we also introduced clear rules on accessing the database, with member states now having an express obligation to determine which authorities competent in the area of document fraud are to have access to the fado system and their level of access, and then to notify the commission and the agency. the commission, upon request, will now have to transmit this information to this house. the negotiated text complements the reform of the ebcga and will ensure better protection of the union’s external borders and more efficient law enforcement. i therefore encourage my fellow meps to support this text.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for inviting the presidency to contribute to this debate. let me start by assuring you that the council, like the parliament and the commission, is fully committed to the fight against money laundering and terrorism financing. together, we have made substantial progress in this area, including with amendments to the anti-money laundering directive and the banking package, the european banking authority regulation and in the criminal law framework. all these recent rules now need to be implemented and enforced. the speculations raised by the luanda leaks case are indeed alarming and damaging if confirmed. damaging not only to the country in question, which may have been deprived of essential revenues, but also for eu banks if it turns out that not all applicable rules were followed. i understand that related investigations are being undertaken, including in angola and portugal, which now need to follow their course. last july, the commission published, at the request of the council, a post—mortem review of alleged money—laundering cases involving eu banks. in that report, the commission identified concrete problems with the supervision and enforcement of any anti-money laundering rules across the european union. and i think it is not excluded that we may now see some of these same issues repeated if, in fact, confirmed. looking ahead, however, in spite of the challenges and setbacks, there are also causes for more optimism. indeed, there is a sense of urgency shared by parliament, the commission and the council, and more than that, i would say that there is also a shared sense of ambition in tackling the big problem that is money laundering. this brings me to the strategic conclusions that the council adopted last december. in these conclusions, the council advised the commission to look into ways to increase harmonisation in the anti-money laundering area, as well as to consider the possibilities, advantages and disadvantages of establishing an eu supervisory body. the council is advising on other fronts as well. for one, we still have the anti-money laundering action plan, agreed by ecofin in december 2018, which is running its course and which we continue to monitor. additionally, our presidency has started a broader discussion on fighting serious and organised crime by tracing its proceeds more effectively. we stand at an important crossroads from where we have the opportunity to proceed towards an effective regime to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism. in this sense, i very much look forward to the commission’s upcoming initiatives and proposals and i trust that the commission will take on board any lessons learned in this last case, the luanda leaks, as appropriate.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission recognises the importance of this debate and welcomes the opportunity to clarify its approach to matters such as those revealed to be at the heart of the luanda leaks. we have consistently stressed that better enforcement of anti-money laundering rules across europe and stronger supervision are essential to increase the resilience of our financial system. beyond stability, we need to ensure the integrity of our financial system. it is not a problem of one country. the european union should have zero tolerance for dirty money. we are willing to apply all of the tools at our disposal and to the fullest capacity. moreover, we are ready to strengthen them. we will not hesitate to propose changes to the legislative and institutional architecture that supports our fight against money laundering, terrorist financing, as well as tax evasion and avoidance. following up on the european parliament’s resolution and the ecofin conclusions of december, the commission will adopt a new action plan on anti-money laundering that will seek to improve the enforcement of the rules. much has been done in recent years. the fifth anti-money laundering directive, which should have been transposed by member states by 10 january, allows greater scrutiny of information around beneficial ownership by civil society, including by the press or civil society organisations and contributing to preserving trust in the integrity of business transactions and of the financial system. the legal framework currently in force seeks to ensure a proper balance between the need to ensure protection of privacy and of personal data and the need for more transparency in financial and economic activities. by establishing accessible registers of beneficial ownership information, the union has achieved the gold standard worldwide in this respect. regrettably, not all the member states have transposed the fifth anti-money laundering directive. today, the commission has started infringement procedures against eight member states which are signalling a complete lack of transposition. however, our real problem is not a lack of rules; it is that the enforcement of rules is done at national level and is uneven from country to country. recent legislative changes to the mandate of the european supervisory authorities granted new powers to the european banking authority to lead, coordinate and monitor the eu supervisor’s fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. this covers the entire financial sector. the commission, however, acknowledges that more must be done. there is a need to address structural weaknesses linked to regulatory fragmentation among member states. this is where european added value lies. the commission intends to work towards the establishment of a unified, comprehensive anti-money laundering policy, building on existing rules and introducing all necessary improvements. there is scope for harmonising the existing rules. there is need for more information sharing between law enforcement authorities to detect and prosecute criminals and to recover assets. in addition to a more detailed and harmonised set of rules based on regulations rather than on directives, a greater role for the eu in overseeing their implementation is justified. this applies as regards both supervision and coordination of the financial intelligence units. an eu supervisory body for aml is a must-have, but creating a structure should not be our aim in itself. the body, be it a new one or building on the existing one, has to have a clearly-defined scope, powers and, very importantly, efficient governance. we know that we can count on the support of the european parliament to bring about a revamped and more efficient supervisory and enforcement architecture. this is our ambition.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the luanda leaks show once again that despite having five anti-money laundering directives, the european union is still a frighteningly attractive place for money launderers. we have to deal with the question of why this is still the case. of course, a major problem is the slow implementation of the existing legislation. commissioner, i can only agree with you. the deadline for transposing the fifth directive was a few days ago, on 10 january. at this stage, five out of twenty-seven member states have fully implemented the directive, 15 have only partially implemented it, madam president of the council, and even if you are not listening, your country is one of those 15, and the rest have not even informed the commission about the implementation. i very much welcome the fact that you have today opened infringement proceedings against these member states. but if this is the way the member states are dealing with money laundering in practice, then all the fine resolutions of the eu finance ministers are just lip service. since the member states do not seem to be able or willing - and are not listening - to take effective action against money laundering, we must already think about how we can combat the problem at european level. thank you very much, president, that you are listening now again. after all, the integrity of the european financial system is at stake, and so is the safety of our citizens, because money laundering and organised crime are directly linked. we have a model in the european public prosecutor's office for how to build an authority which can also take a european perspective on criminal matters. and that is why i really call on the member states to work together here to get us to european law enforcement agencies so that we can get this problem under control permanently. it will not be enough to wait for the last eu country to implement everything.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we are not transposing fully, correctly and in time the european directives adopted to combat money laundering effectively. it is a reality! the commission has today opened infringement proceedings against several member states, including romania, for failing to transpose the fifth directive in time. moreover, none of the member states has correctly and fully transposed the fourth directive, for which the deadline for transposition was june 2017. there are some clear lines of action that are emerging, particularly in light of the latest revelations in the luanda leaks scandal. first of all, commissioner, we need regulations to combat money laundering. it's a bold approach, but it's absolutely necessary. directives are not a powerful enough instrument. we need to change the paradigm. then we really need to know the real beneficiaries. transparency is an absolute must in this whole process. legislative gaps create situations of high vulnerability for the union and for the member states. it is unacceptable that one of the four major european consultancies, which also works with the union institutions, provides financial and legal advice to the relatives and entourage of dictators in third countries to help them launder money, transfer their assets to tax havens and evade the budgets of the states in which they operate. the answer is horizontal magnitsky legislation at european level, as i also called for in my letter to the commission in december. last but not least, it should be stressed that investigative journalists have shown us again, through the luanda leaks revelations, how important their work is for the fight against money laundering and corruption. their protection, including legislative protection, must be a top priority for the commission and for us.
madam president, the european union needs migration, controlled migration. but what is happening is uncontrolled migration, it's human trafficking. for this reason, people arriving at the eu's borders are in danger from the moment they leave their country. they have to go through transit countries, where organized crime networks bring them to the boat they board and cross the mediterranean. we have an obligation to stop the process of illegal migration at its source. we need readmission agreements, we need agreements with the governments of transit countries to neutralize organised crime gangs and we need the military fleets of the member states to return vessels with illegal migrants back to their ports of departure. this is the solution, otherwise, for years we will have the problem of illegal migration, asking ourselves what are we doing in the greek islands, what are we doing in croatia? we have to get migration under control. ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the world has changed, and that may be a good thing, but children are the most vulnerable, and that is certainly not good, and there are multiple concerns. first, about the content of the internet, and here i'm talking about pedophilia, about child pornography, about harassment and blackmail. secondly, it's about the duration of this internet use, because, unfortunately, i'm in the position of treating at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital in iasi more and more children with phenomena of internet addiction or with complicated neurological disorders or triggered by the abuse of the internet. and third, negative things happen even though there are multiple laws in this area. so, commissioner, i am asking you for an integrated approach, if possible, legislative, educational and technological, to make the internet a safer place, and i am asking you today what are the first three steps you will take to do that?
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank you all for your contributions and have taken note of all your comments with regard to the measures which will be taken. i have already mentioned these in my speech before you started commenting on the content of the speech. so, the commission is also glad to see that this subject remains a high priority and is confident that new measures in this field will receive the support of the european parliament. at the same time, the parliament can count on the full support of the european commission in advancing child online safety. we are strongly committed to promoting eu leadership in child online safety ,delivering high standards of protection and stimulating appropriate action from the industry. the children of today will be the drivers of tomorrow’s european economy. equipping them with the relevant digital tools is an investment in the future of europe. so, i thank you president and i thank you honourable members for your contribution to this debate and, as i already said, we have taken note of all your contributions.
in writing. making the internet safer for our children remains a priority, especially as they represent one third of all internet users. the commission aims to develop a new comprehensive strategy on children's rights, including online rights. the strategy should include actions to protect vulnerable children, protect their rights online, and prevent and combat violence. another step will be to strengthen and modernise the rules applicable to digital services across the eu through the digital services act. the commission wants to work with member states to fully transpose the revised audiovisual media services directive, which includes a new obligation for member states to ensure that video-sharing platforms implement specific measures to protect minors from harmful content online. there will be mechanisms to allow users to report, flag harmful content, age verification or parental control systems and transparent, user-friendly and effective complaint handling procedures. we need to support digital education, involve relevant actors at european, national and local level, parents, young people, involve schools, to make the internet a safer place and thus avoid possible incidents.
madam president, as we speak, the number of cases has increased more than a thousand times since the first month and there are 1,118 deaths. no country can fight this phenomenon alone, and from this perspective, i believe that the right to health is a fundamental right that we all must defend, regardless of political color. i was the first to call for an integrated european action plan in the european parliament's plenary and i am glad that some of these measures have been taken, this early warning system, the activation of the european civil protection mechanism. but you know, when we're in a situation like this, we should also prepare for intervention. we are talking about european countries with unequal health systems, we do not yet have a european standard of quality in health, and in the face of such a phenomenon that can create big problems, we should have a united attitude. and i hope, commissioner, that tomorrow morning you will set out that way of integrating the health response system, even if it is, and it may be necessary, at least to prepare for that european medical body to intervene. and just as i volunteered when there was an ebola outbreak, i'm a doctor, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, and i volunteer to intervene if there's a need in a situation like this. i congratulate you on the measures taken and i think that good things must continue.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank you and the honourable members for an informed and valuable discussion. i have taken note of all of your comments. but, regarding taiwan vis—à—vis the who, we promote practical solutions without formal involvement regarding taiwan’s participation in international frameworks when this is consistent with the one—china policy. with regards to chinese services, we are in daily contact and we have no reason to doubt the information which they give us. i also want to put your minds at rest that we are in contact with the african authorities, and that the eu has a cooperation agreement with the chinese centre for disease control. we are making sure that we are prepared, and therefore no panic, but vigilance. i appreciate the fact that we share a common objective on this issue to ensure an effective, coherent eu—level response to the coronavirus outbreak. we are working closely with member states and doing all that we can to ensure that we succeed. however, success also depends on coordination with, and active participation from, all key stakeholders, including the european parliament. it also depends on political will, which has been demonstrated here today. the eu council presidency, as we have already said, has organised an extraordinary health council, which will be taking place tomorrow. this will provide another important opportunity to enhance our coordination. success also requires alignment of preparedness and response measures, including at the eu’s external borders. this would support china’s efforts to contain the virus and mitigate any further transmission within and into the eu, as well as assisting third countries with weak health systems. in fact, this should be our ultimate goal: to support china and the international response whilst protecting european citizens, and it is possible. we will continue to monitor the situation very closely and take the necessary actions, and we will keep the european parliament abreast of all the developments.
a writer. the commission has already done so. farming is a passion. farming is not just a job like any other, where you do your job, you go to work and you just want to bring a little money home to feed your family. no! farmers have a mission: they want to produce the best, high-quality, sustainable food, and they're doing it today. they want to provide consumers with the best food, and they want to develop their own farm, and they want to develop it in a way that they can also pass it on to the next generation. we often have stories of generations, sometimes centuries, of people farming the same land on the same farms for generations. i'll just use my own story to tell you the passion behind it. i'm 42 now and i've worked for over 30 years, and mostly because i've worked on my own farm with my parents, since i was a young boy, feeding the calves, milking the cows, picking up the manure fork, just helping to give this farm a future, to make it possible for this farm to continue to produce the best food. i'll tell you, it was hard sometimes when the others went swimming in the summer and i had to get on the tractor, help drive the crops. but i also tell you, it was not only because there was passion, but because there was appreciation, because there was appreciation, because i noticed that there is respect in the village for what we do, what our company can do. and it's that respect, that appreciation, that appreciation that's increasingly lacking. we have to be careful in our policy debates about agriculture that we don't put farmers on the spot, that we don't talk about polluters, climate killers, poison mixers, but that we talk to them, that we say to them, yes, you're doing a great job, but we have to do better. and that we empower them to do better, that we don't start a ban orgy in the next few months, that we don't start a mandatory orgy in the next few months, but that we provide incentives for more climate action: that we empower farmers, for example, to build humus for more climate action; we need to give them the means to use fewer pesticides, but with incentives, with the right measures, not with bans. that we enter into the debate on how we protect our farmers beyond the european union, when we already have the highest environmental standards in europe. that is another question that must be asked. how do we get the others to follow us around the world? so that we are, for example, moving trade agreements from product standards to production standards, that is also a question that needs to be brought into the centre. there's another question that needs to be at the heart of this agricultural debate and this farm-to-fork debate: it needs to be about the consumer, too. if we want to shape this transformation process, then we need nothing less than a consumer turnaround. in my country, if 72% of consumers say: "yes, i am willing to pay more for animal welfare, for environmental protection, for climate protection" - 72% - but only 16% are actually willing to pay more at the counter, then something is wrong. so one thing is politics, also at european level, but another is consumers, and consumers in europe must also be prepared to pay more. let's take the farmers. i have had five farmers' meetings this past weekend. i can tell you, commissioner, that there is great concern that farmers are being put in a corner, and we need to organise the opposite, to bring them into this debate, to say: 'you are not part of the problem, you are part of the solution.' that's why it's right that this debate takes place in the center of this house today, on prime time; we need to get agriculture right where it belongs -- at the center of the debate -- now before the farm-to-fork strategy is released.
a member of the commission. - madam president! - i have to go. i thank mr linz, the chairman, and the members of the committee on agriculture for organising this very important and necessary debate, which our farmers in particular are looking forward to. the field-to-table strategy has not yet been adopted by the european commission. the work is ongoing and there will be a statement at the end of march. however, the main elements of this strategy have already been outlined in the communication on a european green deal. it is an ambitious plan to introduce a sustainable food production system, and european farmers have a key role to play in this plan. strategic plans will need to reflect more ambitious targets, including a significant reduction in the use of chemical pesticides, as well as fertilisers and antibiotics. organic and precision farming will be developed. stricter animal welfare standards are to be introduced. the quality of the soil, water and air is to be improved. european farmers therefore face a major challenge: to produce food in a sustainable way that benefits the environment, the climate and human health. it's an ambitious challenge, but it's also expensive. farmers cannot be left to face this challenge alone. the european union must help them to do so, and we must all help them to do so. less than 10 million european farmers provide food security for more than 500 million, until recently, and now for 450 million of our citizens. we should thank them for that every day. to thank them for being there, for wanting to work on their farms, for wanting to take care of the land and the animals. there are fewer and fewer people who want to do that. we have a big problem in the european union of farms without successors and depopulation of rural areas. food security is as important as defense or energy security. to ensure food security, we must take care of our farmers and create decent living conditions for them. this is a task for the common agricultural policy, but also for other eu policies. i thank you very much, members, for the key questions you have raised in this debate. how will the commission ensure that people living in rural areas, including farmers but also processors, remain at the forefront and future challenges are taken into account? how does the commission ensure the competitiveness of union producers and a fair income for farmers in the context of the additional requirements resulting from new and revised policies? farmers themselves ask the same questions. i have recently had the opportunity to meet many farmers in different countries of the union: in croatia, in germany, in austria, in poland. i'm going to meet with farmers in france and then to other countries. i also meet with representatives of many agricultural organizations in europe. farmers are aware of the need to move towards sustainable food production. if today some agricultural production is not sustainable, if we are dealing with, for example, concentration and intensification of farming, it is not because the farmers wanted it, but because economic circumstances forced them to do so. farmers had to increase the scale and intensity of production just to survive on their farms. now we need to help farmers change that, so that agriculture becomes agriculture again, not an industry. we will not achieve the objectives of the european green deal and the farm to fork strategy by forcing farmers (i fully agree with what president lins said). we can only achieve these goals with reasonable help. first of all, this aid is the appropriate budget for the common agricultural policy, appropriate to the challenges facing our agriculture. a strong budget and fairly divided. i am very pleased that the need for such a budget is recognized not only in the commission and the european parliament but also in the member states. i was very pleased to hear the joint declaration by the three agriculture ministers: mrs klöckner from germany, mr glavany from france and mr planas from spain. in this declaration, the ministers strongly support the need to strengthen the budget of the common agricultural policy. at the council meeting on 27 january, a majority of ministers from the other member states expressed a similar view, also supporting the need to strengthen the cap budget. and i'm all for that, too. we need a strong, fair budget for the common agricultural policy. the ambitious challenges of the european green deal and the 'field to table' strategy need to be backed up by financial means. there must be adequate funding for eco-programmes in the first pillar. this is particularly true for countries with low levels of direct subsidies and which are seeking to equalize them. there must be adequate measures for environmental, climate and animal welfare measures in the second pillar. these are needed by countries with lower rural development funds. we're going to encourage farmers to adopt sustainable farming practices, sustainable livestock practices, for example, to reduce the intensity of farming, to voluntarily introduce higher animal welfare standards, but we have to have the budget to do that. it is my duty to speak out, especially now that important political decisions on the multiannual financial framework are about to be taken. there's a dignity aspect to this case, too. the objectives of the european green deal and the farm to fork strategy will only be achieved if farmers are treated with dignity. not as a problem to be solved, but as partners in the pursuit of socially important tasks. i am confident that we will have the full support and commitment of farmers to meet the historic challenges that lie ahead. ladies and gentlemen! european agriculture must be sustainable, environmentally, climate- and animal-friendly, but to achieve this, agricultural policy must be farmer-friendly, ambitious and fair.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's good that we have this debate today; we had to fight for it. the fact is, i have the impression that some people believe that this farm-to-fork strategy could be developed either bypassing the farmers or perhaps even against the farmers. i think we are very pleased that you are here today, commissioner, but the fact that executive vice-president frans timmermans is not here today also shows that this thinking is certainly present in the commission. i would venture a prediction: if we do not actively involve the farmers in this debate, this strategy will go against the wall. i'm not going to say that. and i think the fact is that right now, farmers seem to be responsible for everything: for the loss of biodiversity, for climate change, for the overuse of chemicals, for the overuse of antibiotics. the reality on the ground is quite different. the vast majority of farmers have to make sure that they get their businesses going, they get economically going, they find successors, and they tend to think much more sustainably than many, many other players in our economic cycles. they produce food. and consumers are constantly saying that they want things to be even better, they want things to be healthier, they want things to be more sustainable, and then as soon as they walk into the supermarket, they're looking for the deal where they can pay for one and take three. it just doesn't work that way. of course, there are many things that can be improved. i'm also convinced that the strategy makes sense. you can think about crop protection, you have to think about fertilisation, but you have to do it with a hope for progress, with a hope for innovation and research, for more knowledge. because that is the only way we will ultimately overcome these challenges. i think that we need an alliance, an alliance with the farmers, we need to take the farmers with us. my group is in favour of this approach, and we want to pursue this strategy together with the farmers. then she will be successful.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution by nitrates and their salts is a very good one. that is why we need a strong common approach to the future agricultural policy, which must remain european. and this parliament, commissioner, cannot afford to lose the opportunity to incorporate key elements of the farm to fork strategy into a cap that will set the direction for european agriculture in the next decade. the agri-food sector is ready to step up to provide even more environmental services, achieving carbon neutrality for the benefit of all european citizens. but these efforts will have to be matched not only by incentives through a properly funded cap, but above all by the availability of innovative production techniques, including those of varietal improvement which are capable of replacing chemicals in protecting plant health. there is no environmental sustainability, mr commissioner, without the economic and social sustainability of the sector. we are faced with a huge challenge, which can only be met if the european union takes a new leading role.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, yesterday in this chamber we spoke about the future multiannual budget of the european union and we insisted that this budget must be proportionate to the ambitions we have, to the priorities we have for the european union. i said we shouldn't oppose traditional policies, like the common agricultural policy, to new priorities, the green deal, to digital transformation. and i think this is where we need to start: agriculture as an economic and societal objective is more current and more modern than ever, but we need to have the courage to think about how we modernize it and how we bring it into line with the expectations and realities of today, both of farmers and consumers. because a green deal, a green pact, has no chance in the european union without the contribution of agriculture. but agriculture cannot contribute more to society's expectations if we don't think about the income for farmers. so we have to start from the consumer expectation of having quality food, the citizen expectation of having public services that ensure good management of natural resources, and for that we have to find solutions so that farmers have a decent income. and here, beyond the cap budget, we have to think about an investment plan. and that's why this farm-to-fork strategy has no chance and no meaning if we're talking about pesticides and chemicals and just one isolated part of the agricultural activity. this 'farm to fork' strategy should be a new deal for farmers and consumers. that's where we should start. from society's expectations of agriculture, from how we get better, better quality food, how we get agricultural practices, using the resources of investment from the green deal and digital transformation, to help farmers align with the expectations that we have. only in these conditions does a 'farm to fork' strategy have any utility.
mr. president, the green deal is shaping up to be the biggest revolution since industrialization, and farmers have been put on perhaps the heaviest of burdens. under conditions that are still unclear, but certainly much tougher, he will have to feed hundreds of millions of people healthily and sustainably. only that the european farmer is in danger, and with him our revolution. because today, farming seems to many to be a chore, too hard, too expensive, too exposed to factors beyond their control, too little rewarded. so many have already abandoned it, and many are preparing to do so. who are we replacing these people with, where are we getting the generation of farmers to engage in the farm to fork strategy that makes the green deal a success? the european commission should consider launching, alongside the ambitious strategies already announced, an urgent programme to encourage and prepare young people to return to the countryside and take on the mission of bringing the revolution we are talking about today to a successful conclusion.
mr president, commissioner, agriculture is one of the vital economic activities of europe, but also in romania. unfortunately, competition on the european market between farmers is profoundly distorted by the level of subsidies granted. for example, in romania, the subsidy is eur 190 per hectare, in france, eur 420. of course, i am not advocating a reduction in the subsidy in france, but i am advocating an increase in the subsidy for romanian farmers. the same phenomenon occurs in animal husbandry. industry has come to import raw materials from the old countries of the european union, and raw materials are not sold in romania because they are more expensive than in other member states.
mr president, this strategy must ensure three things. first, support for farmers, and here i am talking about subsidies, about tax breaks and consultancy. secondly, consumer support, and we all want products that are safe, properly labelled and of the same standard. and at the same time, third, support for the environment. but this strategy must be backed up by concrete and binding measures. and that is why i am asking you today, commissioner, because i come from romania, the same subsidies for romanian farmers as those in france, austria or germany. on the other hand, the same food standards, the same type of food to be marketed throughout europe, because we all hit double standards, and especially in my country, romania. and thirdly, the launch of a consultancy programme to help farmers across europe access the funds needed for organic farming.
mr. president, i voted for this resolution. i believe it is essential to continue to pay greater attention to policies that combat discrimination of any kind on the basis of gender. so women need to be protected. we still have women in europe who come from poor areas, who face this discrimination on a daily basis, who don't have representation, don't have adequate remuneration, don't have a fair system in terms of retirement, so this problem still exists, including in europe, and we need to give it the attention it deserves. so i'm for greater representation for women, i'm for fighting violence of all kinds, and i believe that only through policies implemented to the high standard that we have can we combat this phenomenon.
madam president, there are many more people in the chamber today than there were last thursday, and that is a step in the right direction, for which i congratulate you. i can speak on this subject in the first person, as someone who has only recently been involved in road safety. to many people, this topic sounds strange and far away, but road safety is not just about putting on seat belts and not talking on the phone while driving. road safety is a system of legislative, educational, enforcement and, above all, preventive measures. road safety is the responsibility of the driver of the vehicle and of all direct and indirect participants in traffic. in my home country of bulgaria, more than 682 people died in road accidents in 2018. by the end of october 2019, there will be 511. i dare say that these figures are rather understated, unfortunately. this only includes direct victims of road traffic accidents, not people who were injured in the accident and subsequently lost their lives. my country loses more of its citizens in road accidents in a year than countries that are also fighting. that is, to put it mildly, unacceptable. so road safety is much more important than a lot of the topics we discuss in the european union, like the ones about the curved cucumbers or what should be in the gravy of the dune. reducing or achieving a zero rate of road traffic injuries requires specific measures. for example, the standardization of road marking, the signs that are put up all over europe, so that has to be pursued. dear mrs. volyan, we have a lot of work to do. we should pay attention to the other initiatives and documents for which you as commissioner are also responsible. we must pay attention to this illogical return of empty trucks, because it is contrary even to the idea of green measures in the european union and parliament. i even heard some comments a while ago about the fact that the tests for women were not adequate. i don't think gender has anything to do with whether or not you can drive a car. i don't think women are better or worse drivers, there should just be strict rules for everyone. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – excuse me, i just wanted to ask, when did you last discuss the curving of the cucumber and such issues in the european parliament, because i have been here for the last almost 11 years and i never encountered such a discussion. so i wonder is this an ecr speciality or whether you discuss those?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i remind you, colleague, that in the last term, in this chamber, we voted and discussed what should be in the sauce of the duner, remember that? i don't think that's the issue. the subject we are discussing is far more substantial and important. i can refresh your memory about the curved cucumbers and the dune, but you've forgotten them. ten years is a long time. you must have missed them. but that has nothing to do with today's discussion.
madam president! there is no doubt that road safety is an important social issue. 200 million europeans have a driving licence and almost every inhabitant uses road transport. traffic on europe's roads has tripled in the last three decades, and infrastructure costs have risen, yet there are too many casualties and human tragedies. and i think it's impossible to calculate the financial and social costs that the european union as a whole is incurring. that is why i am very pleased that road safety is one of the european commission's priorities. i am counting on your commitment, commissioner, which i have no doubt about. and i'm very excited about the new technologies that will be used in this process, because i think they can have the kind of impact that we once had with seat belts. it is also worth noting the disparity in the number of victims in the various countries of the european union. many people have pointed out that the poorest countries with less developed infrastructure have more victims. i also hope that this will be taken into account in the multiannual financial framework. and of course, as someone said, "education, you fool!" without education, without indicating that we do not approve of people getting into cars after having drunk or taken drugs, even the best resolutions will not help us to fight this plague, to reduce these tragedies. we have a lot of work to do, and i hope that we as the european parliament will do it very well, as i wish all of us europeans to do.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the house, i appreciate very much your comments and your interest for this subject. as i said from the beginning, only working together and putting enough pressure on all the stakeholders on which depends the safety on the roads, will we achieve results. you were mentioning, for example the targets. we have the targets which are expiring as i said, this year, and maybe one would ask why we would have targets if we cannot achieve them? but i do believe that having a target is an important instrument, an important tool, to design policies and enter into dialogue with the stakeholders in order to have a concrete vision for the future from various areas. so i myself i’m favouring keeping a clear target which can guide our action, and we can remember and recall all the time. we don’t need .... all of you mentioned the numbers, and i mentioned the numbers at the beginning, and i said and i want to repeat that actually any number is not acceptable. and that it was said it is also not acceptable that we get used to hearing about this and numbers of deaths on the roads. so that’s why clear action is absolutely needed, and we need to be committed to that. several have mentioned the vulnerability of pedestrians or other categories involved in traffic. so when we talk about the safety of course the citizens have to be at the core of our action, and we have several categories of vulnerable road users. so we have also the pedestrians as were mentioned, but the cyclists, the motorcyclists are most at risk, especially in urban areas, and we are also looking into the urban mobility package to see ways in which we can improve the safety inside the city. the problem is, and we all know that where all the categories are meeting together, and now the evolution of the technology we see and the introduction of new ways of mobility in cities, i think these kind of risks are higher. so we have to work very early on devising a policy to accommodate all these categories which would meet in the same space. but since we are talking about that, let me refer also to a topic many of you raised. that technology and digitalisation can help us to improve road safety. many mentioned the fact that we are looking at autonomous vehicles in the future, artificial intelligence - but this comes also with lots of challenges because we have to admit that at the beginning, all these vehicles, well slowly with the introduction of the infrastructure, will need to co-habit with the traditional ones. and this is also something we have to imagine from the very beginning as being a new risk for the safety on the roads. so this is another angle we are looking at. i’m very much favouring the safe system as a system approach because it looks at all the elements which are making road safety challenging. many of you mentioned driving licensing. we are looking into this and i think in 2022 we will come up with a proposal, somewhere mentioning the speed. of course, speed is one of the most important elements, and we have also, let me give you another figure, an estimation from the edfc, that only one kilometre per year reduction in average speed in the eu would already reduce the deaths by 2000 a year. so this shows that speed is a very important factor. we are also looking and analysing to see how we can convince and cooperate with the member states in order to act in this respect. we know that in 2017 there was the valetta declaration on road safety and the transport ministers committed to engage on the possibility of reducing speed limits. so let’s see where we are after this with each member state. personalised analysis for member states is done, and i encourage you to follow, and i’m sure you’re not already, but maybe we will have another chance to discuss the subject after the annual report and statistics, which is going to be published in april. and also i would like to commit with you that after the stockholm conference, i would have probably the next day i am in the tran committee, and i can already report back to you on what was committed to in stockholm and which are the next steps to be taken together with you in the future to increase road safety in europe - and why not to the leadership for other continents, because we know and we have instruments and programmes for asia and for africa and would like to lead there, so that globally we can contribute to the reduction of deaths and serious injuries on the roads. thank you very much for this debate and i’m as always at your disposal for this topic or others for discussion in the future.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. road safety is a topic that must be kept on the agenda at all times. traffic accidents have many negative, often tragic, consequences for individuals, families, and the entire national economy. while it is true that the number of road accidents has been reduced in recent decades, we cannot be satisfied until the number of accidents continues to decline. unfortunately, in most cases, human factors, drunk driving and speeding are still to blame for accidents, and more emphasis should be placed on education and prevention. campaigns at european level are needed to raise awareness of the importance of road safety. the technical condition of the vehicles is also an important factor. fortunately, new technologies are being incorporated into vehicles that greatly improve their safety and reduce the number of accidents. in a few decades, maybe self-driving cars will become a reality, and then the human factor will be minimized and the technical safety maximized. but in the meantime, we must do everything we can to make europe's roads safer, because every human life counts.
in writing. road safety must become a priority! this means, firstly, giving this issue a wider space at european level, because it is about saving lives and about actions that can and must be taken together. i'm concerned about romania's situation in europe in road safety. the roads in romania are perhaps the most dangerous in europe. with almost 100 deaths per million inhabitants and almost 2 000 people dying annually from road accidents, romania is unfortunately failing to do anything concrete about this. practically 5 people die every day in road accidents in romania. it was a disaster! i call on the european commission to take action in this regard by developing a strategy on the matter and to monitor in real time the efforts made by the member states, because safer roads mean safer lives for european citizens!
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 13 february 2020. i would ask members, since the chamber will not be crowded, to keep their presence at least one seat apart, where possible, for obvious health measures.
let us now move on to the agenda. as i told you last thursday, this week's plenary session will be held here in brussels as an exception because of force majeure. i made this decision on the basis of the report of the parliament's medical service, which, following a careful analysis of the evolution of the covid-19 (coronavirus) epidemic, determined that the transfer of the european parliament to strasbourg for the plenary would represent a significantly higher risk to our health and that of the local population. i therefore took note of the fact that the necessary conditions were no longer in place to ensure the safety of all the participants in the plenary session. the decision to hold the session here in brussels was taken in the spirit and with the intention of giving continuity to the work of parliament and not interrupting legislative activity. i would like to thank the french authorities and all those involved in this process for their cooperation. i would also like to thank the administration of parliament, which has been following this matter for weeks. we are living through a difficult time for our institution and it must be the commitment of all - of all parliamentarians and all political groups - to protect parliamentary activity, to allow our democratic life to unfold. our governments and the european union itself are asking our citizens to make sacrifices, and we too are called upon to set a good example: we must do everything possible to ensure the continuity of the legislative and budgetary functions: the decisions to fight covid-19, to support jobs and the economy, which are hard hit right now, but also to continue our work on the green deal, on immigration and on the multiannual financial framework. all of this requires us to stay in our place. our solidarity goes out to all our colleagues who are in the red areas and cannot move. for those who are not in the same situation, i would urge you to follow the recommendations of the authorities and at the same time consider the possibility of staying in brussels at this time to minimise travel. we know that travel, as we have seen from the checks we have carried out, is a cause for concern. we must honour our parliamentary mandate and pay tribute to all those in europe and the world who are doing their daily duty to contain the spread of the disease. i am convinced that with responsibility but also with pride we will rise to this challenge. for these reasons, i have called an extraordinary meeting of the conference of presidents today and i thank everyone for their cooperation and the spirit they have shown in this matter. we have decided to amend the final draft agenda of this plenary session as follows: the march part-session will be held tomorrow, tuesday 10 march, and will be organised as follows: from 9.00 to 12.00, statements by the council and the commission on the coronavirus outbreak. we want parliament to be present and to be an actor and a protagonist in this battle. in the afternoon, from 3 to 6 p.m., there will be statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the extraordinary european council meeting on the multiannual financial framework: we know that parliament is an actor in this. the council and the commission will then make statements on the migration situation at the greek-turkish border and the common response that the european union intends to give. these amendments were approved at the meeting of the conference of presidents and, of course, as everyone understands, we want parliament to remain open and functional, but, of course, we need to take all the necessary precautions and to reduce our activities to the essentials. that is why the sitting is now adjourned and work will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow. thank you for your cooperation.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the 2019-2020 session.
i declare open the 2020-2021 session of the european parliament.
before we move to our debate, i want to make two announcements. we celebrate international women’s rights day in very difficult times. so please allow me to send our support and to thank all women that are facing the sanitary emergency of the coronavirus in the european union and throughout the world. they are researchers, doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, journalists, political leaders at all levels, mothers and sisters. these are difficult times and the emergency shows clearly the great importance of this work. we are proud of their engagement and we want them to be considered equal, not just in these emergency times but at all times. 40% of the members that of this parliament are women, and since parliamentarians are decision-makers at the heart of change for people, there is no just and fair society without gender equality and women’s participation in all walks of life, and of course in politics. on the occasion of the international women’s rights day, we must remember that only one quarter of all parliamentarians worldwide are women and that millions of women and girls are still discriminated against and prevented from fully developing their skills and playing their role in society, and this is also the case within our european union. realising women’s rights is not an option – it is a duty, and it is possible where there is political will. it’s important that the commission has presented an ambitious eu gender equality strategy to achieve significant concrete progress by 2025, and parliament stands ready to work on the legislative proposals, in particular on binding measures for pay transparency measures to be introduced by the end of 2020. we will give our full support and contribution, since equal pay is essential to strengthen our social model. let me continue on the same subject. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and the platform for action, a comprehensive global policy framework with measurable outcomes in several areas. 25 years after these commitments and objectives, we see that progress is still lagging behind in many areas. gender pay and pension gap and the unequal distribution of unpaid work remain big challenges. investing in girls’ education is essential and this is much more than just access to schooling. it is about support and freedom. also, gender-based violence continues to have devastating consequences and it is urgent that all member states and the european union ratify the istanbul convention. the european union must remain a model in enhancing women’s rights. recently, the european parliament called on the six member states that have not yet ratified the convention do so without delay, and we repeat that call today. but women’s rights face new challenges as well, related to digitalisation, migration and climate change. it is our common responsibility to act, for us all and for future generations. to mark this day, we fully support the no woman no panel campaign, and indeed i try not to participate in any european parliament panels or public events where women are not adequately represented. our european parliament will maintain a clear and firm political commitment to strengthening gender equality and women’s rights in the european union and around the world. i sincerely hope that, in forthcoming international women’s rights days, we will be together celebrating new achievements for gender equality for the sake of our entire society. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, despite the difficulties and the exceptional situation we are experiencing these days, many streets in europe and outside europe were also painted purple on 8 march. many streets were filled with a voice saying we want to be free, we want to be safe, we want to have rights. and that is a message we must hear in this house, in this parliament, today. because i'm sure we've all heard that many times that behind a great man there is always a great woman. well, we're tired of being behind. we want to be making decisions. we want to be in the spaces where our lives are decided: in the economic sphere, in the social and labour sphere, in the political sphere. it's women's time. it is time to build a more equal society, where we put on the table urgent measures to fight stereotypes. against these stereotypes that have always placed us women in the private space, so we have not had the opportunity to be part of decision-making in those spaces that are fundamental to our lives. and when women are in those spaces, decisions are made in a fairer and more equal way. that is why we welcome the gender equality strategy recently adopted by the commission and hope that it will be a decisive step forward in the defence of a fairer europe, a more equal europe and also a europe of solidarity, which looks to women in other parts of the world who are also beginning to fight for our rights. it's not a choice, it's an obligation. because let us be clear about one thing: if we want to make fair progress on the european project, we must take into account that europe will be feminist or it will not be.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, unfortunately, on this women’s day as on every other women’s day, and as indeed on every day of all of our lives as women, we realise that equality is far, far away from being realised. women’s day is not so much a day of celebration; it is a day to remind us of the struggle that has been done in the past, and on the struggle that still lies ahead of us. so much still needs to be done. since we’re in a parliament, i indeed want to remind us of the big lack of women in decision-making. just because we might see one woman somewhere in a leading position, that just reminds us of the stark contrast of everyone else in the room usually being a man. that needs to change, but we can also all do something about that. all of our parties, all of our list elections, everyone can do something about it. it is not a natural phenomenon that women are under-represented. everyone can, but also everyone has to contribute to this struggle. while it takes forever, as we have seen, to break old problems, to break all old inequalities, new ones are rising by the day. for example, if we look at the online hate that people – women – are facing; the hate that we have received is an old problem but to see it so much multiplied in the online space is a new phenomenon. also the bias of algorithms now coming up and soon having a very big influence – already having a very big, bad influence on our lives – is something that is a new phenomenon. so let’s never ever for one day even think the fight is over. it is not over. it needs to be continued with women of all the regions, of all religions, no matter how they look, no matter whom they love, and let’s not forget, either, the struggle of trans women, who are often overlooked.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, allow me in these circumstances to add a brief word on behalf of the council. many important and inspiring events have been organised around international women’s day, on which we celebrate the strength, the achievements and the huge potential of women in europe and all over the world. i would like to use and celebrate the acts of courage and determination of ordinary women and women like you and me, juggling the many roles that they play, and as we speak, throughout their everyday life – professionals, colleagues, wives, friends, managers, mothers, doctors, engaged citizens, daughters, teachers and grandmothers. i would like us also to celebrate the acts of courage and the determination of ordinary women who have played an extraordinary role in the history of countries and our communities, women like marie curie, jane goodall, maria montessori, frida kahlo, coco chanel, rosa parks and many more. i welcome the emphasis you had placed on the debate, which was foreseen on women’s role as agents of change. women’s influence, their agency, is vital at this particular moment in time as we begin a new decade, as the european union picks up a moment in the new institutional cycle and as the united nations marks the 25th anniversary of this gender equality agenda. last week, the commission adopted its gender equality strategy for the next five years, a road map for advancing the discourse for the benefit of citizens, businesses and societies, and i want to sincerely thank the commission, and particularly president von der leyen and commissioner dalli, for this step which honours the wishes of the council and the european parliament. with this strategy for the next five years gender equality has a firm anchor hold in the commission’s agenda. in the meantime, let me say that parliament has always been energetic in keeping gender equality on the agenda and for this we sincerely thank you. as a university professor, politician and a mother of two sons, i’m aware of how much women do every day at work and in their homes. i firmly believe that through their involvement, women are capable of advancing different aspects of society, academia, businesses and politics alike. i am therefore proud that i was appointed state secretary on this very significant day on 8 march and happy that i can contribute to the work of my government, which remains strongly dedicated to strengthening the position of women in all walks of life, including in politics and international institutions.
thank you, minister. indeed, on this occasion it is interesting that the panel i sit on is currently 100% women. can i just say that those of us who are visible – those women who are visible in this chamber – must always pay attention to the majority that are invisible, but provide invaluable services and care to the many. so thank you for this really important debate. (applause) if i may perhaps just acknowledge that there is a lady whose birthday is today: commissioner kyriakides. i wish you on behalf of my colleagues a very happy birthday. (applause)
sadly, we move on to very serious matters. the next item is the debate on the commission and council statements on the coronavirus outbreak, state of play and ensuring a coordinated european response to the health, economic and social impact (2020/2591(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the spread of the new coronavirus known as covid-19 is evolving rapidly. the current situation proves that like all viruses, coronavirus has the ability to cross borders and continents. it is important to stress that only together, and in a coordinated, coherent manner, can we address this global outbreak in the most effective way. before i continue, allow me to pay tribute to the victims in europe and elsewhere, and express my sympathies to their relatives and loved ones. over the last five weeks the presidency has taken a number of steps to coordinated the eu’s response to the covid-19 outbreak. the current scale of the outbreak, however, demonstrates that we need to further enhance the coordination of our actions in close cooperation between member states, eu institutions, bodies and agencies such as the european centre for disease prevention and control and the european medicines agency, and with the international organisations such as the world health organization. we have had numerous meetings, including at council level, where we have intensively discussed various consequences of the covid-19 spread in the european union, and exchanged information on the level of preparedness of member states in terms of the implementation of relevant protective measures. the health security committee established to coordinate risk and crisis communication and the responses of the member states to serious cross-border threats to health has already met 10 times to exchange information on this outbreak. the first action taken by the presidency at the eu level was the activation of the first level of the integrated policy crisis response on 28 january, which we then escalated to full mode last monday due to the worsening epidemiological situation. i’m sure that you are already aware of the large-scale efforts within the union civil protection mechanism to repatriate eu citizens first from wuhan in china and now from other countries such as japan and iran. in this context, it should be noted that consular affairs fall under member states’ competences, but of course also here we are stronger if we cooperate. as to the current situation, the presidency, together with the european external action service, conducted local consular cooperation meetings with the member states to update on changing needs to consular assistance in different third countries. the capitals are also in very close contact to coordinate and support each other on consular assistance to eu citizens. through the constant monitoring of the situation, i believe that we currently have a good overview of the spread of covid-19 and i need to underline at this stage that the swift exchange of up-to-date information among us, and further coordination of measures taken, are crucial elements for an effective response to reduce the impact of the outbreak. to that end, we will convene an ipcr round-table meeting at ambassador level for detailed discussions on concrete measures necessary for an effective and coordinated response. i will now give you more details about the coordinated response at council level to the health, economic and social impact of the covid-19 outbreak. on 7 february, the presidency organised an informal, high-level video-conference with member states’ delegations. together with representatives of the commission and the european centre for disease prevention and control, they had an opportunity to exchange information on the implementation of protective measures taken and to compare experience concerning the activation of national systems for handling public health emergencies. on 13 february, the epsco council held intensive discussions in which member states, the commission, the who and the ecdc explored ways to further enhance communication and cooperation at eu level to efficiently tackle this public health emergency. they also focused on possible solutions to safeguard the sustainable supply of medicines and equipment on the eu internal market. we adopted conclusions that strengthened the coordinated approach and included a number of actions to be taken to protect public health in the european union. in light of the recent rapid increase of covid-19 cases in the eu – where now all member states have cases, with some counting hundreds, and, in the case of italy, thousands of cases – the presidency held another meeting of the epsco council last friday. the member states had an opportunity to exchange views on the consequences of this rapid increase, to assess the effectiveness of measures in place and discuss ways to strengthen the response. that exchange of views suggested that at present our operational emergency mechanism and protective measures are functioning in a satisfactory and coordinated manner. the key message expressed by the council, which i would like to share with you, is above all we need to strengthen solidarity between the member states, cooperation and exchange of information. member states stand ready to further raise collective and individual awareness of the threat from covid—19 and to establish coherent containment measures while maintaining the principle of freedom of movement in the european union. we will further develop a coordinated approach to prevention and good practices for all people affected, including vulnerable groups such as the elderly. last but not least, member states have identified a need for european monitoring of the supply of medicines and medical equipment. they share the same aim to secure production, stocking, availability and rational use of protective equipment in the european union. as regards the economic and social impact of this health crisis, we all realise that it is imperative to act quickly in order to prevent huge further costs. for that reason, finance ministers held an informal discussion last week to discuss appropriate countermeasures. they discussed the specific actions to adequately provide financial support to national civil protection systems in order to cope with this crisis. next week, finance ministers will meet again to take stock of the situation and propose additional targeted measures if necessary. specific sectors and regions of europe are suffering disproportionately from this crisis and they will need all our support and solidarity to address the impact of the covid-19 outbreak on society and the economy. furthermore, on thursday, on the presidency’s initiative, the eu education ministers will hold a conference call to discuss an effective national response to ensure continuity of education in the light of the covid-19 outbreak. as you probably know, president michel convened a video-conference with leaders this afternoon to discuss how to coordinate eu efforts to respond to the outbreak in order to protect the health of our citizens. the meeting will be an opportunity for the leaders to exchange information, facilitate the coordination of efforts and to prepare the next steps. i know that we can count on our robust european social model, ensuring adequate social protection and that citizens are not left behind in these precarious circumstances. solidarity and a coordinated approach are the key in this situation. we welcome the support mobilised by the commission so far, provided in a number of sectors such as public health, research and civil protection, and we will continue to work closely with the commission to ensure that comprehensive support is delivered to the member states. we remain convinced that the coordinated measures taken will help sustainably diminish the impact of covid-19 in europe and will minimise disruption to the continuity of social, economic and democratic life.
member of the commission. – madam president, covid— 19 has developed into a fast-moving and increasingly severe public health emergency that is affecting our citizens, our societies, and our economies. we have since yesterday confirmed cases in all member states. whilst the numbers vary from a few cases only to over 9 000, we know that the picture is changing exponentially and by the hour. needless to say, the days and weeks ahead are critical. i want here to take the opportunity to praise the european parliament’s decision to take effective measures. i know it was not an easy decision, but it was necessary. they are critical, the next few days and months will be critical for our response. member states must still focus on efforts to aggressively contain the virus, particularly where there are few cases. slowing down the virus must be our greatest priority in order to gain time for our health systems to function effectively, and for research and development to advance. the measures we are seeing are impacting on our citizens, on their everyday lives, on the economy, on businesses. it is not an easy situation to live in, and the decisions taken by government are not taken lightly. but when necessary and justified, although tough these decisions need to be followed to the letter. it is a time of critical communication with our citizens and here parliament can be of great help in two ways. you need to be the voices that speak to citizens for them to take responsibility for their personal protection measures: washing hands, avoiding physical contact; but you also need to be the voices against false news and misinformation, because this is equally damaging to the efforts made and the impact of the virus itself. this is a critical time for cooperation and solidarity. without solidarity and europe-wide solutions, we are not going to be able to deal with this public health emergency. we need solidarity between citizens, between countries, and within countries, and this was ensured in the outcome of the extraordinary employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) last week. we need to see solidarity in action. we need to share resources, share information, share expertise, share equipment. we need to share equipment protocols and testing protocols. let me be absolutely clear, this cannot be business as usual. we are facing an exceptional situation, and under such circumstances everybody needs to stand up to their responsibilities. whilst the realities on the ground between member states vary considerably, and whilst they are not all at the same scenarios, i have called on all of them to activate their preparedness plans and to share them with us. i have called on all of them to plan ahead, to be ready for the possible next scenario. from our side, we will continue to do our utmost to ensure that medical workers and those on the front line have the best means possible in order to face the outbreak. complacency is not an option. we have launched a joint procurement for personal protective equipment, and this morning we will know what response to this offer we have received. we are already looking at joint procurements for medical equipment, such as respirators and testing kits, which have been requested by member states. with commissioner breton we are discussing how industry can scale up production to meet increased demands. yesterday i spoke with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the european medicines agency. we have established a video conference three times a week with myself, as health commissioner, and the agencies, to be updated and coordinated in every way possible so that we can be proactive if possible. we are strengthening the operational support and advice of ecdc on the ground. an expert mission has already taken place in italy and a second one is underway in greece. we have increased funding for research and vaccine development, and we are also coordinating our border, visa and security measures. in ending, i want to say that from day one, our priority has been to protect citizens from this virus and to support member states in stopping the spread. we need to show a europe that cares, a europe of solidarity, and a europe that protects, a europe that offers added value to its member states in their response to that challenge. i know that when under this kind of pressure everyone reacts in different ways, but this is not a time for fragmentation; this is a time for all of us – wherever we are positioned – to join our voices, because this is the only way we’re going to be able to come out of this crisis – and that we will. and i’m sure we will have you with us in this effort.
member of the commission. – madam president, on 28 january, president von der leyen activated the commission’s crisis management system, and she tasked me, as the european emergency response coordinator, to chair the coordinated effort for our response. last week, this was bolstered by the setting-up of a specific coronavirus response team of five commissioners, including commissioner kyriakides and myself. but also other commissioners – all commissioners – are heavily involved in this effort. for the past six weeks, we have been coordinating the work of all commission services to identify what needs to be done, by whom and when, and get it done. let me give you a quick overview of this effort. through the union civil protection mechanism, we have coordinated the repatriation of hundreds of european union citizens from china and japan. we have coordinated the provision of assistance to china during the initial stage of the outbreak there. since then, we have been working with the eu member states to coordinate assistance between them via this mechanism. we have mobilised funding to the tune of almost eur 270 million to boost global preparedness, prevention and containment of the virus with a combination of development, humanitarian and research funding. in the area of border controls, we have issued guidance to member states and organised weekly meetings of the covid-19 information group on borders, which brings together the member states, schengen associated countries, the council secretariat and the european border and coast guard agency, so as to exchange information and best practices on measures taken by the member states in view of the coordinated approach. for transport-related measures, we have requested the development of specific advice for ship and aircraft operators, as well as the land transport sector, regarding preparedness and the response to the covid-19 outbreak. this advice was recently published by the expert group. in addition, we are working every day on contingency planning and preparedness measures for the eu on all aspects of this emergency, from health and research to civil protection and consular assistance, from transport and home affairs to the economy. we are assessing the impact on supply chains and working with member states to ensure that they use the benefits offered by the single market rather than close it off to each other. commissioner breton is speaking directly to european manufacturers of personal protective equipment. our aim is to make sure that the public health needs of all member states are met and that adequate supplies get to where they are needed most. there is no way around the fact that the economic cost of the coronavirus will be significant. we are working closely with member states to assess the situation and coordinate the necessary economic measures. by coordinating them, we will maximise their impact. it is important that affected workers and businesses get the necessary support to weather this storm. on the fiscal front, european countries have powerful automatic stabilisers, which can cushion a good part of the shock. they can also intervene in terms of providing liquidity to small and medium enterprises, which are the most affected by this impact. in addition, our stability and growth pact provides for flexibility to cater for unusual events such as this. our letter to italy is very clear on that. we are well aware that exceptional times require exceptional measures, and this is such a time. we are committed to coordinating with member states and using all appropriate policy tools to safeguard against the downside risks that are now materialising. finally, we have ramped up our public communication efforts with the launch of a dedicated covid-19 webpage with daily updates. there should be no doubt that this situation calls for a coherent response, and solidarity and cooperation are essential. member states recognise this and the commission has already been supporting them for weeks. in particular, the emergency response coordination centre, which is working 24 hours a day, seven days a week, remains available to them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, our thoughts are with those affected those in hospital, those affected by the virus and with the relatives who have already lost partners, friends, loved ones. i would also like to thank president sassoli, our secretary-general, mr klaus welle, on behalf of the epp group, for the sensible measures we have taken as a parliament, and also the other group chairmen for the fact that i think we have dealt with the situation in the conference of presidents in a very proportionate way. i would like to thank ursula von der leyen, stella and commissioner lenarčič for their activities. we all wish the commission had started its work differently, that we had not woken up in a crisis. but now is the time to tackle these crises. and i would also like to express my gratitude to those who are now responsible for the patients. we have many people who are in direct contact with the infected; i would like to thank the nurses, the nurses and the doctors, and all those who are doing this courageous work, on behalf of the epp group. corona is forcing us to take steps that go against our european way of life: to shake hands, to kiss, to travel, to meet friends. this is the real challenge we face: to put our lives to the test a little bit. everyone can help, everyone can do something to stop or slow down the virus. we must act decisively, but we must also avoid panic. what is the task we have to tackle at european level? first, it should be made clear that the main responsibility lies at national level. it is the national health ministers who are responsible. but europe can of course make a contribution, and we want to make an ambitious effort to do so. the first is a joint risk assessment. we, the european people's party, have already proposed at the last strasbourg congress that all travellers entering the european union should be subject to a common risk assessment at all airports in the schengen area, with common slips distributed to citizens who enter, indicating where they come from and whether they have been in contact with infected persons. it is a matter of principle that the commission should be consulted on the matter. today it's better made. the epp group believes that the measures now being taken at national level are still too uncoordinated in dealing with the proposals made by the commission and our experts. for example, football matches are played with spectators in some countries, while in other member states they are played without spectators. for many people, that means confusion. and that's why one of the things that we've seen from these developments over the last few days is that we need to strengthen our agencies, our expertise over the next few years. what europe has to do is and this was made clear by both commissioners: we need solidarity. the decision by germany and france to ban exports of, for example, protective masks, had a domino effect at european level, where all member states have imposed this export ban. that is not the understanding of solidarity that we have as the epp group. if italy is in a special situation now and needs these protective masks, then other member states of the european union should be prepared to help, and not look at their own challenges in a nationalist way. if we think further, we believe that the question of research is of central importance. the eu commission has now allocated €47 million to improve research on the coronavirus. i believe that these funds will not be enough to make the rapid progress in vaccination and also in treatment that our citizens expect. and we as the epp group will also have to discuss competition law. medicines that we are now dependent on chinese and indian subcontractors for medicines, that is not understood by the citizens of europe. this means that in future discussions on competition law we will have to define which products we have to supply ourselves. and finally, we need a package of measures for the economy. the ecb will be closed this week. the state aid rules need to be reviewed. flexibility must be used to support our companies; we need cash, we need loans, and the stability pact must be applied flexibly, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. we are against any change to the stability pact, but we want the flexibility of the stability pact. these are the tasks that lie ahead of us. the situation we are facing now is not one that requires party politics, but responsibility. it is not a situation that requires panic, but decisive action. and above all, it is not a situation of national egoism, but of the awareness that we are in a europe of common destiny.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. the decisions we take in the coming days must be scientifically based and in accordance with the recommendations of the health authorities. we must be aware that some member states are being hit harder by this crisis than others and are making decisions that are difficult and tough. and at this time we have to be constructive to get through this situation in the best way possible. as public representatives we must act firmly and encourage reasonable actions to avoid unnecessary damage. in any crisis we need to equip ourselves with the tools to deal with it and be aware of its magnitude. as i am not able to vote today on the resolution on which our groups have been working, i would like to put forward the main points of my group's report. member states should act in a spirit of solidarity and ensure a common and coordinated, proportionate and effective response to the virus. the commission and the member states must put in place containment measures and contingency plans, and we welcome the european commission's commitment to invest in research into the development of a vaccine. at the same time, we must put in place measures to alleviate the economic impact of this crisis and also to stimulate the european economy. member states should therefore be allowed to implement additional tax measures, including tax flexibility measures. we urge the establishment of countercyclical policies and concrete measures aimed at protecting employment. the european investment bank should use the credit lines to provide small and medium-sized enterprises with liquidity funds in financial emergencies. we must ensure that price speculation and parallel markets do not profit from this crisis. we cannot ignore the social impact that the covid-19 virus is having. but that does not mean that we should not guarantee labour rights: we must be able to guarantee the rights of workers. and we have to look beyond this number. we must give priority to strengthening social security and public health systems, which are now showing great responsibility and capacity to address these issues. the defence of public health systems is an essential issue, systems which are currently setting an example. finally, i would like to express my strongest condemnation of acts of racism, discrimination and prejudice against people of chinese or asian descent. any kind of racism is intolerable, and especially in these cases. finally, i would like to express my support for all the victims, to whom i would like to convey the solidarity of my group, and my thanks to the entire medical sector and to all those who are working to put an end to this situation.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, first of all, i would like to express my heartfelt and warm thoughts on behalf of the renew group to the victims, to the families and to the carers of those personally affected by this coronavirus. our debate this morning is of course essential because we have a duty to set an example. parliament is doing what everyone else is doing, adapting to the spread of the virus and taking the necessary vigilance measures that are necessary with this plenary session back in brussels and limited to its simplest expression: today's debates. but there is no question of deserting, just as there is no question of deserting the hundreds of thousands of workers who, all over europe, remain in their jobs and continue to ensure the smooth functioning of whole sections of our economy. six weeks now that this virus has been on the front page of all the media, what is the added value of our debate this morning, within the very narrow limits, shall we say, that the treaty gives to the europe of health? first, between minimization and psychosis, you have to put the cursor in the right place. yes, the situation is worrying, since 10,000 europeans have been infected and 500 deaths have been recorded (in only five countries fortunately). yes, vigilance is needed. but it should also be remembered that only 5% of those affected require hospital treatment. it must also be said that europe reacted swiftly. in particular, it activated the civil protection mechanism for repatriating europeans from china, iran and japan on 28 january. it also made available €100 million for research, future treatments and vaccines, prevention and health surveillance. this is a testament to the know-how of europe and the commission. but who knows? this is not a criticism but a small suggestion to the commission: you should also activate your skills to 'let people know', it is essential. and it is also a weapon, mrs. kyriakides, against misinformation. but still, in the face of the globalisation of threats, this is the fourth epidemic in less than 20 years. europe must anticipate and coordinate better. renew has a whole action plan that i invite you to discover elsewhere. and as for the social and economic impacts of this pandemic: i will leave the floor in a few moments to my colleague dragoș pîslaru.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i very much want to thank all the health workers, all over the world, who are doing a tremendous job and will most likely have to continue doing a tremendous job and who we all rely on in times of emergency – i really want to thank them for all that they are doing. and while we’re following very closely what’s happening with the covid-19 spread and impact, i think what we also should be looking at is the wider impact and the wider effect it has on health systems. there are also other health problems around that might get worse when hospitals are very busy dealing with the coronavirus infections and health systems are often already at their limit. and i think that should also encourage us to learn some lessons – i mean, there will be many more lessons to be learned in the future, but already at this point i think we can take and draw some lessons. one of them is to really strengthen the health systems, and not rely on there always being good and sunny days. we also need to have our health systems in shape for emergency situations. i think another important thing is that we need to have social systems that enable people to indeed take sick leave, to stay at home when they’re not feeling well, or even to stay in quarantine, and that’s not possible if you’re only paid by the hour. that’s not possible when you’re paid badly, if you don’t get sick leave support, for example. another lesson, as has also been mentioned by colleagues, is that maybe it’s not so smart to leave the production of vital goods to one country, one region alone – that we should spread production more widely and more economically in that sense and not just be reliant on very specific areas or very specific economies. and while we need to listen to the medical experts and take note of the measures and emergency measures that parliament should take – that everyone should take – it is also up to politics to draw those conclusions, to draw lessons and deal with them. and, most importantly, i think i want to reiterate what the commissioner said. we need to work together. a crisis can only be overcome if we all show solidarity. exclusion and discrimination does not help anyone. it’s the wrong way forward. we need to stand together in solidarity, especially when the going gets tough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what my colleague said a moment ago. i think that, unfortunately, this crisis is really putting the european union to the test and i fear that the european union will not be able to withstand the shock. it will not succeed unless some absurd internal rules are overcome, unless some of the hypocrisy and selfishness of some member states is overcome. nor will it withstand the health crisis if, two months after the first cases and outbreaks in china, we still do not have a single protocol or a common european guideline. and he won 't get through the economic crisis . the german stock exchange closed yesterday at -9%, the spanish at -9%, the french at -10%, the italian at -13.5%, and the european economic commissioners could only say that the flexibility permitted by the treaties would be allowed. the flexibility? we are facing a total crisis here and we are only talking about flexibility? this is a time for courageous action . the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last gave a clear signal that the european union must intervene by financing the real economy and businesses directly from the bottom up. that's the only thing we have to do to get out of this disaster.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). and two minutes is not enough to deal with the grief of the bereaved, the fear of those who have been affected or those who belong to a vulnerable group. i would like to take this time to thank those who are taking care of the people who are suffering from coronavirus and those who are afraid of being affected by this virus. of course, the doctors, but especially the nurses who are on the front line in all our hospitals against this virus, and who often do the impossible - especially in regions where hospitals have to operate beyond their capacity, and who - it may be said here too, even though it is not a european competence - are paid far too little in most countries. i know that people in my own member state are freaking out that i am saying this in the european parliament, but it is time we appreciated our nurses and that includes appreciation in financial terms. i would like to thank the european commission for taking the lead where it can. i see a commission which, contrary to the crises of a few years ago, is actually repatriating ordinary people, europeans, from other parts of the world, taking the initiative on all kinds of fronts. the member states are often the ones who are doing wrong. and then it is of course absurd that i can read in the bild-zeitung which germans are infected in northern italy, but that the german authorities do not share this information - in which hotels these people were, in which municipality - with that same region in the affected area so that they can take measures. this is not the europe i represent. in the europe i represent, that kind of information is shared and in the europe i represent, we are also drawing long-term lessons from this crisis. then there's the dependence we now have on raw materials from other parts of the world for our medicines. that's for the long haul. now we have to act. and yes, commissioner, together we can do this, but we also provide for investigations when there is no more crisis, and in the quiet time, so that next time we are well prepared and better prepared.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr and mrs commissioner! on a day like today, and in these times of corona, our thoughts naturally go first and foremost to all the people who have fallen ill and to all those affected. i also think of the wonderful work that our health workers are doing all over europe, sometimes at the risk of their own health, to care for all those affected by the virus and to fight to prevent further spread. thank you very much for your work! as society faces this stressful crisis and its challenges, we must all move in the same direction. i am glad that several of my colleagues in the house have pointed this out. we must do everything in our power to reduce the spread of infection and we must do everything in our power to control the situation with science and calm. providing care to those affected and preventing the spread of infection must be our first, second and third priority. europe has a great responsibility here to stand united and work together with common forces so that we can give the best possible support to those who have been affected. we social democrats of the socialist and democratic group welcome the fact that the european commission has allocated over eur 230 million in emergency aid to combat the epidemic. that's very good. in some countries and regions, the spread of the coronavirus has hit harder - and it has been said here earlier - than in other countries. yesterday, the italian prime minister giuseppe conte announced that italy is being quarantined. it is, of course, an extraordinary measure in a very serious situation and our thoughts are of course with the italian people in the difficult trial they are now going through. the truth is that at present we do not know for sure how the infection will continue to spread. in the last few days, we've seen a very large increase in the number of confirmed cases across europe. but no matter how the situation develops in the future, there is no doubt that the coronavirus knows no regional or national boundaries. we must therefore work in solidarity and take a joint action against this epidemic. this applies, of course, to the countries of europe, but it also applies outside, that is to say, globally. we all have a responsibility to do what we can to get through this crisis. i would just like to conclude by saying that vulnerable groups are and will be more affected also economically, and that is where it is important that we all see what can be done. i am thinking in particular of the many women who will bear the costs of the corona crisis, not least by staying at home with their children and in various ways doing a lot of the risky things, but also taking care of this financially. we must bear that in mind.
madam president, dear colleagues, first i say to you all: let’s believe in europe! together we will act stronger and more effectively for the european citizens. this is our pledge. this is our mission. this is our purpose. we need an ambitious and coordinated response that’s clear for everyone to limit the outbreak – especially in terms of economic and social impact. all member states should act together focusing on citizens’ well-being. as part of renew europe, i would highlight the implementation of free actions to alleviate economic shocks. first, the member states should use fiscal flexibility to ease the fiscal pressure on firms and self-employed workers affected by the crisis and postpone the deadlines for vat payments and social security contributions. this should be the first oxygen given to them. second, we will, and we should, call for the european investment bank to become an essential partner that can make emergency liquidity available for smes to retail banks. thirdly, i sincerely hope that right now it’s clear for everyone, in the light of the current crisis, the necessity for the eu to have a facility that would support the creation of employment schemes to help regions hit particularly hard by the crisis, to allow for the reduction of working hours, preserving jobs and avoiding business disruptions – similar to the kurzarbeit scheme in germany, and this is very important. time is upon us. let’s act together for the european citizens. let’s not leave anyone behind, especially because vulnerable people are the first hit in the crisis.
madam president, madam commissioner, this is a code red coronavirus. we've never been in a situation like this before. i'm an emergency physician in iasi, romania, the emergency clinical hospital, and i care. the life of every european citizen must be protected and that is why we have called for and sounded the alarm since january about this crisis, calling for a single european response plan. unfortunately, no one is a prophet in their own country, not even in their own country, and that's why it's clear that it's only a matter of time before the current pandemic is declared. that's why we need a plan b with clear, firm measures on health support, economic support and tackling discrimination and infodemia (that false information). and i ask you today two very important things: firstly, alerting the european medical body - i have been a volunteer in crisis situations before and i am volunteering today - because the medical situation in italy risks being outdated and the people there can no longer withstand demands, the medical staff is outdated - and secondly, as a safety measure at the european level, the establishment of concrete measures for the microbiology institutes, the funding of the cantacuzino institute in romania, because in such crisis situations, we need vaccines and sanitary materials produced at the european level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a new crisis: our european health policy structure is no longer accustomed to infectious diseases. we've been reimagining over the decades a whole new set of structures and responses to health emergencies, so there's a shortage of icu beds today. a place in intensive care costs 2,600 euros a day. in italy, the cost is this: it is many billions of euros. responding to this emergency means putting in place immense resources. secondly, the answer we need is economic - as we said - but before we think about the deficit problem we must think about the liquidity problem: businesses today, to keep going, to keep people from being laid off, they need cash. but asking for funds in cash today costs a lot! so we must derogate from the basle principles which block banks in this respect. there are many sides to this, so here's a suggestion: it is not enough to have a crisis commissioner - who is doing a good job anyway - just as it was not enough to have commissioners who were competent on matters relating to brexit. but it takes an extraordinary commissioner: a special commissioner for the coronavirus emergency. we need a competent person to deal with this from morning to night, within the commission, now!
president, the coronavirus poses serious risks to public health. i have great respect for the aid workers who are leading the fight, but if we are to further contain the spread of the coronavirus, european cooperation is desperately needed. i therefore call for continued coordination between the european commission, the countries of the european union and also the european centre for disease control and prevention. but that cooperation is only possible if we also show solidarity in the countries here in the european union. it is not possible that one country is holding back mouthguards or other medical devices and that other countries are lacking in these. another point that i am very concerned about is the possible shortage of medicines for some diseases, but perhaps also about adequate control of the coronavirus. the vast majority of the medicines we use in the european union are manufactured outside the european union. i therefore call on the european commission to take stock of the risks to this security of supply and to anticipate them so that we do not have shortages of medicines in the coming months.
madam president, first of all our empathy with all those who have been affected by the coronavirus both directly and indirectly, and especially solidarity with our italian friends who are in total lockdown in the most affected country in europe. and, of course, all countries in europe have now been affected, and that said brings us to the need for a more coordinated response at european level. i think it’s fair criticism to say that the european union has been slow to react, and now it needs to get its act together and bring all countries together to deal with this virus as quickly as possible. in my own country we have had 24 cases. i think the authorities have acted fairly quickly. dr tony holohan, chief medical officer, has outlined a plan to move from containment to delay to mitigation phase, and the government has committed up to eur 3 billion to help employees, businesses and medical services to deal with the coronavirus. the same must happen at european level, both financially and also logistically. now, as many of you know, every year i host here, on behalf of ibec, a st patrick’s day party to which you’re all invited. but that has to be cancelled next week. the good news, though, is that guinness, irish whiskey and baileys do not go off that quickly, so hopefully when this virus is over we can reschedule and you’ll all be invited.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i see more and more pictures of empty supermarket shelves on social media. in germany, noodles are sold out, but not the whole-grain noodles. the term "toilet paper crisis" is trending in different countries. the french ministry of health has to warn on twitter that cocaine does not protect against the coronavirus. the fear of an epidemic is driving more and more people into a state of panic and fear. the hamster buying has led to shortages of mouthwash, respirators, disinfectants and has caused great problems for doctors and nurses. so i would like to thank all those who are working to help sick people. but these wholesale purchases of essential medical products are leading to shortages where they are most needed. it has to stop! and that is why we must be very transparent about real risks, but also about fake news, and we must act in solidarity as the european union. we cannot restrict the export of these important products. the priority now must be cooperation and the slowing down of the spread.
madam president, i begin by expressing our solidarity with our italian brothers, but we today should do much more for italy than just be with her in spirit. we should be able to help today with medical equipment and supplies, with ventilators, but also with doctors. that is why i proposed last week in the envi committee that we have strategic reserves ready for such situations. today we need common stocks of medicines and medical equipment, the mobilisation of union medical staff in the most affected areas, but we also need leadership, rapid dissemination of information, trust. the answer to the current crisis is not to limit exports. the answer is not "run away if you can". this crisis affects us all and we can only get out of it together. so i want, mrs kyriakides, to intervene today through the european civil protection mechanism and the solidarity clause of the treaty. fellas, let's not let solidarity be a word in the wind! today is the moment of truth for all of us.
in writing. i call on the european commission to ensure a coordinated european response and a clear strategy, applied by all member states, to limit the spread of the virus as much as possible, so as to avoid an unbearable pressure on health systems and to buy time until weather conditions can limit the spread of the virus and scientists will develop a vaccine. i also call for increased funding and public-private collaboration between public health authorities, industry and academic research centres to develop a vaccine and a treatment for coronavirus as quickly as possible, as well as the development of diagnostics and antivirals. the covid-19 pandemic does not respect borders, which is why only well-coordinated european action can generate the necessary efficiency to manage this extraordinary situation.
in writing. i will not hide my dissatisfaction with the ec's response to the coronavirus today. i again call on the european institutions to develop common, coherent and stronger action to manage the crisis. too little has been done and too late. at european level, we can only overcome this situation together! there are a total of over 100,000 cases globally and 4,000 victims. the virus has reached all eu countries, and more than half of the victims outside china are in europe. hundreds of europeans have lost their lives because there was no coordinated response to this crisis. in romania, people are worried. i convey my good thoughts to italian friends, medical staff around the world and to romanians in other countries who are watching the situation with concern. i expect the ec to communicate and, above all, to act. the ec must actively ensure coordination between member states both in restricting the flow of people and in securing medicines and medical devices. we need specific information and prevention campaigns. we need an active response to the decline of european stock exchanges and a support mechanism for the affected industries and economic sectors.
in writing. the current situation illustrates what the state's ability to provide food for all of us can mean. these possibilities should be explored, as they are a major guarantee of security for our citizens. today we should be very grateful to our farmers in our own countries for trying to keep the agricultural sector alive despite the great difficulties, often in countries like lithuania, where the competition is not equal in the european union market. one thing is clear to me, we can't allow farmers to refuse to work the land - to put it simply - to produce food. because food is a vital commodity in any situation, whether it's a calm period of prosperity, of growth, or it's a complete crisis. today, more than ever, the survival of agriculture must concern not only the farmers themselves but also the people of different countries who have nothing to do with agriculture.
in writing. – beyond expressions of solidarity with each other on the coronavirus epidemic, we need to be clear about the implications of what has been happening for ordinary citizens, including those not affected by the corona disease. over the years, we have promoted globalisation. in europe, we have constructed a single market for goods, services and the free movement of people. our citizens have grown accustomed to considering these developments as good in and of themselves. now we understand that they can bring in their wake the swift transmission of new diseases. for this we are unprepared... and not just in europe. the coronavirus epidemic is scary not simply because it is a ‘new’ disease, but because it has also travelled so quickly. on the medical front, the new and perhaps unforeseen problems that now confront us are apparent. can medical research be geared up to match the pace of corona’s travels? but there are other fronts where similar developments could occur. are there any other unforeseen consequences of globalisation, apart from epidemics, that might hit our citizens directly and quickly? these questions might seem to be academic at this point in time. answers to them, though, will impinge drastically on the quality of life of our citizens.
in writing. health is more important than politics, i think we can all agree. unfortunately, in the case of the coronavirus epidemic, that's not the case. in china, the epidemic was suppressed for political reasons. the symbol became a doctor who died and warned of the virus of his time. a flagrant example of unacceptable political posturing is china's blocking of taiwan's participation in the world health assembly. we've been trying to bring this to the floor for a long time, but there's always someone against it out of fear or concern for china. taiwan can and will help, as this poster proves. in this epidemic and in other cases. it has scientific capabilities and one of the best health systems in the world. it's close to the affected areas in asia and is at risk of a coronavirus outbreak. it was predicted to be severely affected, as nearly half a million of its citizens were in china. however, effective measures were taken to control the spread of the disease on the island. taiwanese know-how, which dates back to the sars epidemic, should be used within the who.
in writing. i call for immediate crisis management and targeted resources for the tourism sector to mitigate the damage caused by the coronavirus. there is no room for delay, tourism employs more than 25 million people and generates more than 10% of european gdp. in the last eight weeks alone, the european industry has lost over two million chinese tourists, and we're already seeing booking cancellations in the millions in italy. and with the restrictions and flight cancellations, that number is going to be much higher. the european institutions have already set up a decision-making group with the involvement of five eu commissioners, but thierry breton, the eu commissioner responsible for the internal market, who oversees tourism, has not yet been included in the group, for reasons that are not clear. the coronavirus pandemic and its accompanying economic domino effect have taken on increasing dimensions, causing untold damage to the tourism sector. we already know about small and medium-sized businesses, family businesses that have gone bankrupt because of the restrictions that the virus has put in place. the tourism sector is particularly vulnerable and could be one of the biggest victims of the coronavirus if we do not act in a timely and responsible manner. safeguard mechanisms for the protection of jobs and businesses must be put in place as soon as possible. the most effective and rapid way to address this is through a comprehensive, centralised eu crisis management.
in writing. the coronavirus is now spreading rapidly in europe and it is unlikely to be stopped completely. however, the speed of the spread and the availability of healthcare are crucial to the severity of the epidemic. a slowly spreading coronavirus outside the peak flu season is less dangerous than a sudden epidemic that hits europe. europe must respond to the threat of the virus together and united. this is a serious health crisis first and foremost, but it is also a serious economic crisis in the second stage. if the virus is contained, if one of the existing treatments proves effective, if the economic wheels turn in much of the world, and if the epidemic subsides, the economic emergency will be temporary. in all other scenarios, the impact is severe: several sectors suffer long-term, global supply chains break down in many sectors, economic activity slows significantly and the world is plunged into negative growth rates. the effects of the epidemic would be felt across europe. in the midst of a crisis, the importance of trust is highlighted. we have to rely on the best professionals in the field to make the right recommendations at the right time. spreading conspiracy theories, unfounded panic, or ripping up political hotspots in the shadow of a virus all work against this goal. the impact of the coronavirus on the world is significant in all cases. we've never been in a situation like this before. in the face of this challenge, we must remain resolute, calm and united, even if our human nature sometimes demands otherwise.
in writing. the spread of the coronavirus epidemic has already generated a public health crisis across the eu. the response to this crisis must be coordinated at european level. measures taken at member state level must be harmonised with european action, and solidarity is imperative. the public health crisis will induce two more crises in the eu, an economic crisis and a social crisis. in a globalised economy, it is very important for the eu to protect vulnerable people, but it is equally important to support european businesses that are affected. according to global estimates, we will soon face a crisis comparable to the global financial crisis of 2008. the eu's response must therefore be the same as it was then, one that is consistent and well targeted. we need a european economic stimulus plan based on the eu budget. in 2008, the european economic recovery plan mobilised €200 billion, or 1.5% of eu gdp, to which were added tens of billions of euros made available nationally by most member states. by flexibilising the stability and growth pact, this european plan to help european economies overcome the effects of the coronavirus epidemic must be financed, thus protecting european companies, jobs and citizens.
in writing. the global coronavirus epidemic poses a major challenge to the response capacity of the european union and the member states in a context of high uncertainty, given the disruptive nature of the threat. cooperation and solidarity are the key words to mitigate the health and economic and social impacts. the measures already taken to collaborate on the exchange of information, access to medicines and other prophylactic tools and the creation of an emergency fund are important, but they should rapidly evolve into enhanced cooperation, taking full advantage of the synergies between member states' resources and union resources. solidarity and cooperation are also key to ensuring free access to testing and treatment and to covering wage or similar losses resulting from the practice of quarantine. the brutal economic and social impact of the outbreak cannot be borne by the most disadvantaged. in the face of this outbreak, the european union has the obligation, in the name of its humanist values, to give priority to the most exposed citizens, companies and institutions in the allocation of the technical and financial resources at its disposal. i'll fight for that.
president of the european council. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank you for giving me this opportunity to take the floor again and to have this opportunity to exchange with the european parliament. thank you also for your understanding, because this afternoon we will have an important video-conference with the 27 member states about coronavirus, and we need to prepare for that meeting. that is why i will be unable to stay more than 30 minutes with you in the european parliament, but of course i will follow the different points of view expressed by the members of the european parliament. one word if i may, first of all, about coronavirus. tout d’abord, un mot sur le coronavirus. pour commencer, je voudrais, au nom du conseil européen, exprimer tout notre soutien aux personnes affectées directement ou indirectement par cette situation, vous dire que le conseil européen prend très au sérieux la situation à laquelle font face aujourd’hui l’union européenne, les états membres et le monde. je voudrais aussi vous dire que, dans le cadre de la visioconférence qui aura lieu tout à l’heure, nous allons discuter avec les états membres de ce qui est à mes yeux une nécessité, à savoir celle de renforcer considérablement les capacités européennes de coordination et de coopération. pour relever ce défi, nous avons besoin de davantage d’europe présente et mobilisée aux côtés des états membres et de l’ensemble des acteurs, que ce soit pour tenter de coordonner l’action afin de contenir et de faire reculer ce virus. il faut tenter d’être plus solidaires, de s’entraider s’agissant des équipements médicaux et des produits nécessaires pour faire reculer cette menace. il faut se mobiliser pour faire progresser la recherche et l’innovation et pour découvrir le vaccin qui nous permettra de remporter cette bataille. il faut aussi mentionner les conséquences économiques, mais également les mesures que l’on peut prendre dès aujourd’hui, pour réduire au maximum l’incidence économique et donc sociale de cette crise sur nos citoyens. le conseil entend être extrêmement mobilisé avec l’ensemble des partenaires: le parlement, bien sûr, mais aussi la commission, la bce et la bei, car lorsque l’union européenne fait face à un défi de cette ampleur, la seule option, c’est de se mobiliser et de se serrer les coudes. c’est le message que je veux adresser pour commencer cette après midi. one word about the next european budget. as you know, i made a promise to the european parliament to try as much as possible to cooperate with them in this difficult political process and whether it would be possible to reach an agreement as soon as possible on the next european budget. we had a meeting – a summit – a few weeks ago in february, and unfortunately it was not possible to reach an agreement, because between the member states i had to recognise and to observe that there are different opinions at the moment. on the one hand, for some member states, it’s important to stick with the idea that we have to maintain 1% of the gni over a level for the next european budget, for other member states it’s not enough, while for other member states it’s important to have a guarantee that it will be possible in the future to continue significant support for the convergence policy, like cohesion and agriculture. the modelisation of the budget is also an important topic. i think it’s very important not to oppose – or to avoid – the traditional policies, more economic and, as a result, social convergence at the european level and, at the same time, to be able to face the new challenges we need to face, like climate change, like the digital agenda, like migration, like security, like defence. it means that we need to continue all the political efforts, and i will continue the consultations with the different member states in order to appreciate, to assess, when it is possible to come back to a new summit with the goal of trying to reach an agreement. some other points. conditionality rule of law – an important signal for the european parliament, although not only for the european parliament but for many member states. in my negotiating box that i put on the table i have proposed organising a link between the rule of law and conditionality, between the rule of law governance and the next european budget, but we need to continue this situation, for example about which kind of majority we need to take a country decision. regarding resources, this is also on the table, and i know that in the european parliament you had many decisions on this topic. in my negotiating box i have made some concrete proposals regarding the possibility to take a decision regarding plastic waste distribution or regarding the possibility to enlarge at european level the ets system. also in my proposal i gave other examples of possible measures we can take and we can discuss with the different actors and especially with the european parliament. for many member states the plastic waste contribution is possible, for some member states the ets system remains something very complex, very difficult, and we will continue decisions on these different topics. one last piece of information – one last important point in my opinion: i’ve also put on the table a proposal to increase the capital of the european investment bank. i am very clear. in my opinion, it doesn’t replace the role of the next european budget, but it’s something more in order to give the possibility in the future for the digital agenda, for example, or for climate change to use the european investment bank more. in my negotiating box you have probably seen that i’ve proposed strengthening the possibility for the european parliament to cooperate, to be more involved, in order to be an important player, in order to identify what the possible priorities would be if the member states would agree to increase sooner or later the capital of the european investment bank. voilà quelques éléments. s’agissant de ce projet de budget européen, j’ai eu, à plusieurs reprises, l’occasion de débattre très directement notamment avec les parlementaires responsables du groupe de contact pour le cadre financier pluriannuel (cfp). je leur ai indiqué que je leur présenterais le cadre de négociation, ce qui a été fait avant le sommet européen. j’ai eu l’occasion, ensuite, de débattre à la conférence des présidents et mon intention est de maintenir le lien avec le parlement européen. vous savez qu’il faut l’unanimité au conseil européen pour prendre une décision. mais je n’oublie pas que le parlement doit s’exprimer sur ce sujet, aussi bien sur les chiffres de ce cadre de négociation mais également sur les processus législatifs qui y sont liés, pas simplement sur la question des ressources propres d’ailleurs. enfin, un tout dernier mot, madame la présidente. nous devons faire front à plusieurs problèmes en parallèle. ces derniers jours, nous avons aussi été mobilisés avec le président du parlement et avec la présidente de la commission pour tenter d’agir sur la question de la migration. vous avez vu que les tensions ont augmenté, il y a une dizaine de jours, à la frontière entre la grèce et la turquie, raison pour laquelle nous nous sommes rendus sur place. il nous semblait important d’aller voir la situation sur le terrain et d’agir. cela veut dire que nous avons exprimé notre soutien aux autorités grecques qui protègent les frontières grecques, qui sont aussi celles de l’union européenne, et nous devons le faire dans le respect du droit international, de la dignité humaine et des droits de l’homme. c’est un message très net que j’ai eu l’occasion d’exprimer à la frontière entre la grèce et la turquie. j’ai aussi eu l’occasion, la semaine passée, de me rendre très rapidement en turquie pour rencontrer le président erdogan afin de discuter avec lui du retour à la mise en œuvre de l’accord entre la turquie et l’union européenne, qui date de 2016. suite à cet entretien, nous avons tenté d’encourager une baisse des tensions aux frontières avec la grèce, avec chypre également, avec la bulgarie. et nous avons eu, hier soir, une réunion à bruxelles, la présidente de la commission et moi-même, ainsi que nos équipes avec la délégation turque, emmenée par le président erdogan. il a été décidé de poursuivre le dialogue dans les prochains jours pour s’assurer que nous étions mobilisés pour mettre en œuvre cet accord de 2016. c’est ça, la priorité, avant de regarder de quelle manière nous pouvons, à l’avenir, continuer à coopérer en matière de migration avec ce pays, comme probablement avec d’autres. voilà, madame la présidente, mesdames et messieurs les parlementaires, les quelques messages que je voulais vous indiquer. je regrette de ne pas être présent plus longuement cette après-midi avec vous. mais, bien entendu, mes conseillers ne manqueront pas de me faire rapport des messages qui sont adressés et, dans le respect des responsabilités imparties sur la base des traités aux institutions, je renouvelle mon souhait politique de coopérer loyalement avec votre institution qui représente les citoyens européens au travers de votre élection au suffrage universel.
vice—president of the commission. – madam president, it’s my honour to deliver these remarks on behalf of the president of the commission, ms ursula von der leyen, who is in urgent contact with the heads of state and government to coordinate their response to the current coronavirus crisis. as president michel has just mentioned, i would also like to assure you that the commission is working flat out to find the best solution to tackle not only the health aspects, but also the economic and financial aspects of the current crisis. it would of course be excellent, and in the interest of european citizens, if today we could discuss the achievement of the european council in reaching agreement on the long-term budget, to allow you to scrutinise the results and move forward. we all know that this was not to be, and this is of course disappointing. the failure to agree will now, in any event, mean that many programmes can at best only be implemented very partially next year. however, looking at the history of the multiannual financial framework (mff), it has always needed at least two european summits to find an agreement. it will therefore be crucial to make the second summit a success and to do it quickly. we, the european commission, call on leaders to draw lessons, not just from their deliberations but also from your contribution and, most of all, from the challenges in the real world that have been intensifying in recent days and have been on stark display on the borders of the european union. it is time for realism, reason and responsibility. realism first. i have seen how difficult the discussions are. it is therefore now high time that all deepen their sense of some of the realities that should govern our work. that requires recognising the following things. first, we are facing a financial gap caused by brexit of eur 75 billion euros. this means that we all need to face up to this reality. member states’ contributions to the budget will have to rise, while expenditure will have to be constrained. secondly, like the european parliament, the commission is also convinced that we need a budget tailored to achieving our common goals with a sufficient overall size. follow this logic and we will fail to deliver on what citizens expect, while national budgets will simply end up having to pay these costs. we know that this is the road that leads nowhere. crucially, we cannot close our eyes to the challenges in the real world that we need to address together. the challenges for migration and borders, for treating people in wretched circumstances with a minimum of human dignity, need no further illustrations after last week’s events. leaders from right across the union have pleaded for the european approach. yet, in the negotiations on the mff, these very same leaders are limiting funds available for borders, migration and external action. this is simply not acceptable. the mff is not an accounting exercise or a simple numbers game. this is about equipping the union with the resources needed to solve real-life problems and, may i add, save real lives. that reality will need to sink in much deeper as we approach the next round, and we in the commission will not accept an outcome that does not reflect this. having our common priorities in mind, we have no time to lose. it is truly time for reason and cool-headedness. at this moment we have three options: the better, the suboptimal and the worst. the better option is reaching a balanced agreement very soon. this is still possible, but we are already very late. last time we achieved a deal in the council in early february and the final agreement only in december. therefore, 2014 meant a lost year for some programmes, something we need to avoid this time. but that also implies that, even in our best case scenario, we are already under massive time pressure. many of our policies will at best restart at the end of 2021. the better scenario therefore is already one that will come with serious challenges. the suboptimal option would be a contingency plan, rolling forward existing budget programmes for another year. i know that many of you have been asking for this since it would buy more time. but let me be very clear about the consequences. it would mean additional ‘mini’ mff negotiations running in parallel with all the contentious issues on the table, the very same things that are blocking progress on the mff. attempting to find a solution along these lines would therefore absorb everyone’s time, energy and focus, while we need all efforts to find a good agreement on the actual long-term budget soon. it might well fail, in which case we end up with no result. even if it didn’t fail, what type of answer to structural challenges such as climate change, digitisation and external policies could we give with a one-year budget? what would this do for the credibility of the european union? worst of all, it would result in a budget without response to the new challenges: no just transition fund, no investeu, no defence and digital agenda, and a lower climate ambition. the third option is the worst—case scenario. no agreement would have severe consequences for all europeans since it would leave us with a budget on life support, only allowing a limited number of policies to be funded. how could we explain to students that there is no erasmus? how could we tell the regions that there is no cohesion money? how would we explain to the citizens that europe is unable to act when it comes to climate and digital challenges, or that it lacks the means to protect our common borders effectively? no agreement in time would damage us all. now is therefore the time for responsibility, to do everything to reach a good agreement as soon as possible. to achieve this we need to work together. as the commission, we engaged with you from the beginning and we encouraged the member states to listen to the european parliament. we also agree with you that we need new resources to fund our ambitions. they are the win—win solution which might help to find a compromise. when president von der leyen presented the agenda for a europe that strives for more, you, as well as the member states, promised the necessary support. now is the time to give europe the means to strive for more and to equip ourselves with sufficient shared resources. it is the time for everybody to recognise this and to stand up for realism, reason and responsibility. we need an agreement on the next long—term eu budget to secure the necessary funds to be able to act together, and we need this agreement fast. we in the european commission know that we can count on you. let us work together with the european council to make this long—term budget a success for europe and all europeans.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the european parliament would have rejected the proposal on the table, and from that point of view it is even a good thing that the council did not reach agreement. the european parliament cannot betray the citizens of the european union, it cannot accept a proposal that is against them. mr charles michel, i ask you to ask the european leaders to tell the truth to the citizens. our leaders make many proclamations, set many goals, but then they don't give the financial means to achieve those goals. all of them are in favour of cohesion, research, safe and healthy food, strengthening borders, supporting young people. then they cut cohesion policy, they cut the common agricultural policy, they cut erasmus+, they cut frontex, they cut research. how can we have a competitive european union in this way? where is the geopolitical union we advocated? with your proposal, the european union would be irrelevant and the coronavirus proves that there is no coordination, that we are not even able to have enough medicines. what is happening in the field of migration is a disgrace: we do not have a proposal, a common solution and the necessary means. how much does it cost not to have the research we should have? in fact, there are figures from the commission: a reduction of eur 10 billion in the research programme means a decrease of eur 110 billion in terms of gross national income. the leaders know this. so why do they want to cut in the european union? the european council cannot be the sum of 27 national egoisms, so prepare yourselves for one thing: if the proposal is not positive, if it wants to make the european parliament and the european union irrelevant, we will fail. and we are always the solution. we want a contingency plan to be predictable, we want our own resources to be able to have a sufficient level and we have been waiting for the council since november 2018. we will continue to wait, but the urgency of the european commission's speech, and i will conclude, we are waiting, but we cannot have a budget that is not a capable budget, a sufficient budget. we cannot have a budget that goes against the will and expectations of the citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr michel, thank you for being here today. we are aware of the special circumstances of today's agenda and we hope that the meeting which will take place shortly at council level with the other heads of government will be fruitful. we have had a debate here in parliament this morning on the situation with regard to the coronavirus and i simply want to reiterate two messages very quickly. on the one hand, the need for coordination at european level of measures, but respecting the different measures that have to be taken at member state level because of the intensity of the situation in each of them. and on the other hand, a message about trying to mitigate the effects in economic terms and that is that the european institutions will have to take decisions to establish greater flexibility in the stability pact, to allow this situation to be dealt with and to mitigate the economic and social effect that may exist in this regard. the commission is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the field of the internal market. it is disappointing that we have not reached an agreement, because i think we are all aware that this debate goes far beyond the figures. this debate is about what kind of europe we want to build. and we cannot be at the beginning of a legislature talking about how we lead the fight against climate change, how we strengthen the european social pillar, how we maintain policies that are geared to our territory, such as the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy, and how we adapt to new policies that have to be put in place, for example, migration... we have a clear case on the table today. well, what's impossible is to do more with less. and that's what some are raising. and so i think we should all be aware that we need enough time to be able to form an agreement and a consensus. i know it's difficult, but i also believe that haste cannot condition our work. it is obviously desirable, as mr šefčovič said, that there should be an agreement soon. but i think many of us here think that no deal is preferable to a bad deal. we cannot afford a bad agreement in the budgetary framework. we need a strong and solid budget to tackle the political project of europe. we cannot afford a no-deal because a no-deal will mean facing challenges and challenges that are already awaiting these institutions today. so let us get down to work and be able to be aware that a strong, solid agreement is needed with sufficient budget.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i would first of all like to welcome the determination of charles michel and his presence here today in parliament, which proves to us his interest in working with parliament. i know that this message has also been conveyed to the heads of state and government. but a final, credible decision requires that the expectations expressed here in parliament be taken seriously. and i want to make it very clear that there will be an annual european budget only when it meets our political ambitions, expressed repeatedly by the member states in the council, around european priorities. we cannot have ambitions on the green deal, on the digital transition if this ambition is not accompanied by a real budgetary and investment vision. the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy must also move out of this intergovernmental bargaining and into an era of modernisation. and both should be seen as solutions and not as budgetary problems. our debate on the budget outlook today takes on a new political dimension in the context of this coronavirus crisis. because the question is not whether this epidemic will impact our economy, but rather how much. this coronavirus crisis will pass sooner or later and hopefully with as few casualties as possible. but the key question is how the european economy will cope and to what extent, in the aftermath of this crisis, the european budget will play its full role as a lever for investment and economic recovery. to help our companies and our employees get through this difficult phase, we need to have predictability, which is a key word in this crisis. for this reason, a rapid decision on the budget, geared to investment and job creation, is one of the essential elements of visibility for the future at european level, since the european budget is an element of orientation and predictability. what is happening on the greek-turkish border shows us once again that our policy of border security, but also of solidarity, requires a frontex with the resources, but also with the budget to make solidarity a reality on the ground. the coming weeks and months are crucial to proving that post-brexit europe is capable of delivering that stability and predictability and vision. because a geopolitical europe and a europe at the forefront of the economy are not mutually exclusive. it is built with determination, but also with means.
madam president, the failure to reach an agreement on the mmf in february was brushed off by many as a necessity for talks to succeed later on, but the negotiation also had to fail because it started from a totally wrong premise – that europe is divided between generous benefactor countries and poor ones living off handouts. it failed to consider how closely the eu budget is interlinked with the single market that everybody benefits from. it overlooked all the dividends for all the member states from the internal market, as well as the indirect benefits they receive from the implementation of the cohesion funds. in reality, the eu budget is not a financial burden, it is an investment tool. in reality, it is not fair that today member states benefiting from rebates contribute less to the eu budget as a share of gni than others. the non-transparent and unfair system of rebates has no reason to exist in an eu which wants to be strong, cohesive and relevant.
mr president, erdogan is using the tragedy of syria and the suffering of thousands of refugees and migrants as a bargaining chip. the gábelist practice of announcements and false information by interior minister soilu shows the political impasse that leads them down dangerous paths. greece is doing its duty and protecting the external borders of europe by preserving the integrity of the schengen area and we must continue to do so with full respect for human rights. but we need more help from frontex and a full deployment of the rabit forces. the refugee migration crisis is not limited to evros. it seems that many of you here, especially some of the right-wingers, are forgetting that there are 40,000 refugees and migrants stranded in the north-eastern aegean. so show your solidarity, not only in how greece will secure its borders, but also in how there will finally be a resettlement programme, so that refugees can leave greece for the rest of europe and how we will finally revise dublin in a fair way so that the burden is not only borne by the first countries of entry.
mr president, here we are again, five years after the first signs of the crisis in 2015, facing the same challenges and risks and, unfortunately, the same lack of structural solutions to respond to them. for five years, there has been talk of the need for solidarity, strategic management of external relations with countries of origin and transit, border security and, in general, the urgent need for common and coherent european migration policies. we've been in an embarrassing political deadlock all these years. we all now have - the commission, the council and parliament - an opportunity and a historic duty to find solutions. we were told that they would be found in the migration pact. i hope he's there and i hope the pact is presented as soon as possible. until then, there are a few immediate measures that i consider essential: diplomatically we must get out of the blackmailing logic of president erdogan. yes, the eu cannot ignore the humanitarian crisis in northern syria, but it cannot be a counterpart for erdogan to control his border with greece. the review of this decision must be unconditional. and internally, we need to act immediately in greece in a spirit of solidarity, but helping. it's essential that we understand why the camps look the same as they did five years ago and why the procedures are so confusing as they were five years ago.
mr president, i would like to thank the greeks and those who are defending the border and those who are supporting the tens of thousands of migrants who have come to their homes and to their villages in the islands, but it is surprising that we are waiting for erdoğan to solve our problem. the european union has to do what it has to do, which is to negotiate readmission agreements with the countries that are supplying the migrants, to negotiate with the governments of the transit states and to neutralize the networks of organized crime and, with the mediterranean fleets, the military fleets, to turn back the boats that are carrying illegal migrants. otherwise, we'll be sitting on erdoğan's hands for 20 years from now.
in writing. several countries in europe are struggling with the coronavirus epidemic, and in addition to the potential containment of the epidemic and the prompt treatment of its economic consequences, we must also pay attention to the developments on the greek-turkish border. for me, the tasks are clear. protecting europe's borders is essential. we must respond to the crisis in a concrete way. member states should provide assistance, to the extent possible, in the form of police, border guards and the necessary equipment to stem the flow of refugees reaching the greek border. similarly, the staff and resources of the union border agency, frontex, are to be strengthened to enable it to deal adequately with the situation. finally, a solution must be found through diplomacy in eu-turkey relations, as equal partners at the negotiating table. the situation in refugee camps in turkey, and similarly in the middle east, has become almost unsustainable, and in this context it is worth thinking about how turkey can be helped to send back from refugee camps those who are not fleeing from the war to their country of origin, or how to prepare for the return of war refugees to safe regions of syria. we cannot expect the migration pressure at eu borders to disappear by itself, the european union must be involved as an actor in the crisis management.
mr president, i am watching with great concern what happens to italy and what happens to spain, because my country, romania, has almost one million romanian citizens living in spain, and more than one million romanian citizens living in italy. i am watching with concern what happens to them, but i am watching with equal concern what happens to the people of spain and to the people of italy. and i’m watching with the same concern what happens in every single european country. we should all be concerned with what happens in every single corner of europe, and the answer to this crisis is solidarity. the important question is: how can we achieve solidarity in this crisis? and my answer is: we can achieve solidarity through concrete measures. if the people of europe, if the countries of europe, see that we have concrete ideas at european level, ideas which help them, then they will follow us, then the countries of europe and the people of europe will stick together. the good news is that the european commission proposed concrete actions less than two weeks ago, and we will adopt these. two out of the three proposals which we will adopt today are linked to the budget of the european union. and as vice-president of the epp group responsible for budget, i say: our group will approve these proposals today. we will not make any amendments and we will reject any other amendments made which would delay the entry into force of these proposals. we will approve them today, and we want them to enter into force immediately. more can be done, there are still eur 4.1 billion unused in the budget of the european union of this year. and i call upon the european commission to mobilise these resources, new resources, fresh resources, in the fight against coronavirus. we can allocate it to finance research to find a vaccine against coronavirus. we can allocate it to buy medical equipment. the president of the commission has described that she has now the mechanism in place to do this. we can allocate it to help those in need, to help small and medium-sized enterprises. we should also prepare for the future. when we will be voting on the budget of the european union for the next seven years, it should contain a reserve, a consistent reserve for a similar crisis in the future. because in the next several years we will again face crises, which we cannot anticipate today, like we also could not anticipate the virus. so we need for the next several years a sufficient buffer to react to crises. to conclude: europe means travelling, europe means meeting people, europe means visiting new countries, europe means learning, europe means listening to people, europe means shaking hands, embracing each other. in order to be able to return to this as soon as possible, we need now to stop doing this for a limited period of time also, out of respect for the medical personnel, who are overcoming this crisis. we as a parliament transmit a clear message, whenever needed in the future, we are ready to be back to work, to take concrete measures which help the people of europe overcome this crisis.
president sassoli, ladies and gentlemen, we all want a strong, united and decisive response from the european union to this crisis. the covid-19 pandemic is testing the european union's ability and flexibility to respond with urgent measures that save lives and jobs. today, however, it's not just a test of public health or socioeconomic impact. today, the european spirit, our social fabric, is being tested. we, citizens, national governments, civil society, decision-makers at european level, are all capable of more solidarity, of showing the real strength of the european spirit and values, of unity in diversity. at the european level, we have already done one thing: we have allocated up to 37 billion euros through the investment initiative to the coronavirus response and we have expanded the european union solidarity fund. and that's good and we have to tell people, but we have to make sure that these resources go to the citizens and that the citizens benefit from them, that entrepreneurs and all categories of entrepreneurs, without discrimination, including independent professionals, ngos that provide services, benefit from these things, that employees and all categories of employees and employed people, self-employed workers, agricultural workers, day laborers benefit from these things, that there is no bureaucracy and no financial blockages. at european level, solidarity is about who is responsible for vulnerable people, and in this respect, in addition to action at member state level, i want us to remember our most loyal ally: civil society, the ngos that support our efforts through campaigns in communities everywhere. that is why i am calling for the creation of a european solidarity fund for ngos, which will quickly provide funding for projects that can be scaled up at european level, and, not least, the mobilisation of the european solidarity corps, which must be at the forefront and really show the european values: love, compassion, hope. i would like to end by sending my condolences, and those of the renew group, to the families of the victims, to convey our gratitude to the health workers, volunteers and social workers, and last but not least, to wish us all strength for the difficult times ahead. together we will succeed!
in writing. the crisis caused by the coronavirus, also known as the covid-19 epidemic, has affected member states suddenly and dramatically and could have a very significant impact on their societies and economies. the coronavirus has slowed down the growth of the economies of the member states, causing a sudden slowdown in economic activity. the situation may worsen as companies may face difficulties in paying suppliers and employees. at the same time, additional public funding is needed to support health systems and other activities directly linked to the outbreak. this has created exceptional circumstances requiring specific measures to support and protect the economies, enterprises and workers of the member states. significant and rapid intervention by health systems is needed to enable them to function in these difficult circumstances. member states should also be supported to mitigate the negative impact on labour markets and other vulnerable sectors of their economies. this situation is now relevant across the european union and requires the mobilisation of all available resources and measures at eu and member state level to address the unprecedented challenges of the covid-19 epidemic. let us remember that the welfare, life and health of the people must come first, and then the economic considerations. for these reasons, all urgent and emergency aid should be mobilised in accordance with the general agreement of this parliament.
in writing. at present, the whole world is facing a coronavirus pandemic. the european union's member states are engaged in a dramatic battle to save thousands of lives. the economy is falling dramatically and the government budget deficit is growing enormously. large firms have stopped production and many companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. hundreds of thousands of small businesses don't know if they're gonna make it through the next month, a lot of people are gonna lose their jobs. europe is experiencing its worst crisis since world war ii, and no one knows how long this will last. in this situation, it would be absurd to continue with the 'green deal for europe' which imposes a huge economic burden on individual member states, businesses and ultimately all citizens. the green deal must be stopped immediately and focused on measures to save european economies.
in writing. – as the third largest economic sector in europe, which contributes to the entire european gdp with more than 10% and provides over 25 million jobs in the continent – the tourism and travel sector is particularly hit by the covid 19 crises. millions of jobs are at risk while many small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are closing their business. support for tourism must be a priority in the crisis response, recovery plans and actions of affected economies. the commission have already done a lot, but a crisis management mechanism with strong financial support is needed for the entire value chain for tourism and immediately. we must act together and now! undoubtedly health and safety first, but in parallel we have to act by taking the needed measures in time in order to avoid the deeper crisis of the tourism sector in europe, in accordance with the guidelines of unwto. we are in daily contacts with stakeholders of european tourism, the hoteliers, the tour-operators, the cruise-lines, the aviation companies and airports, the exhibition organisers and many others, they know what is really needed to be done for them! we urge the european commission with the member states to involve and listen to everyone and act!
in writing. – i would like to express my sincere regret for the death of thousands of citizens in our members states due to covid 19. on top of the immediate health emergency, we expect that the outbreak will continue to have a significant impact on our societies and economies. the commission has stepped in fairly quickly to offer financial support to mss with limited tools available. the parliament supports all the proposed measures. it has also acted quickly in order to suspend financial and competition policy rules that would have stood in the way of offering instantaneous help. however more has to be done to coordinate mss measures for the containment of the virus at eu level. the single market and interconnection in all aspects of life is so strong that no important member state action can be solely and exclusively have affect within its national borders. the eu should aspire for more: mass testing should become available; the number of icu intensive care units should increase; surgical mask production units should be created and much needed economic crisis measures should follow. national action plus eu level coordination would have been the winning solution in those first moments. it still is.
in writing. currently known transmission of sars-cov-2 virus from animals to humans in wuhan wildlife sanctuary, china, is the cause of the pandemic. the risks of the tory have been known for a long time, but the trade in wildlife has not been banned, and the spread of the virus has been covered up for far too long. the chinese state media is now busy conveying the image that china is not to blame for the situation. it's not a problem. the european union's member states must join forces to fight the corona. there are tools for this, as the agenda for the plenary session shows. in addition to the measures decided in plenary, the european commission has already allocated funds to drug research, launched joint procurement of protective equipment and other materials and sought to ensure the smooth flow of vital goods across closed internal borders. the state aid rules and budgetary discipline have been temporarily relaxed to allow member states to both strengthen health financing and support businesses affected by the corona. the eur 750 billion buy-back programme launched by the european central bank and the relaxation of capital requirements are necessary measures to respond to an acute liquidity crisis. the euro area finance ministers have also reached a preliminary agreement on the use of the european stability mechanism as the crisis progresses. i'm happy with this, but i don't think it's enough yet. as the crisis progresses, actions with a stronger solidarity element than has been decided so far are also likely to be needed. the actions i have listed are necessary but also demonstrate the eu's capacity to respond to the crisis. we must continue to show that to the citizens. the best antidote to disinformation is decisive action, open communication, honesty and mutual european solidarity. they are also the basis for the solution to the corona crisis.
in writing. europe is currently the epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic. the covid-19 crisis has affected europe in a sudden and dramatic way, and we need to take urgent and joint action to protect the health of our citizens and the european economy. the coronavirus has no passport, it is not a problem of individual member states, but of europe as a whole. i was therefore concerned by the delayed reaction of the european institutions, which revealed that the community was not prepared to take swift, decisive and coordinated action at eu level. however, it is good that we are now adopting initiatives in a hurry to support the efforts of member states to combat the coronavirus. if they are to be effective, they need to be implemented immediately. however, i would like to stress that the range of initiatives is only provisional and that the measures proposed by the commission are insufficient in the face of the scale of the challenges. i am asking the european commission to prepare a legislative proposal that more comprehensively addresses the changes needed to effectively combat the long-term socio-economic impacts of the pandemic.
in writing. today we are discussing the first emergency package to support nation states in their fight against the novel coronavirus covid-19. i support this package, whether it's loosening the rules on airline slots or activating funds. however, this is only the first step, a small emergency solution to the most important. what the eu can and, in my view, must start doing now is to change our political priorities to support the economy, competitiveness and the employment and social security of our citizens. that means, first of all, putting off the new green deal's overblown goals. in the face of the coming global economic recession caused by the coronavirus pandemic, we must be realistic. we won't have enough funding for a profound systemic social change, which would be debatable even in times of economic turmoil. let's think about this again and not damage, even unintentionally, our economy. we'll need the funds elsewhere now. this does not mean that we should stop protecting the environment or stop addressing environmental issues. but this means having realistic and achievable objectives and, above all, taking account of the economic and social possibilities of the member states in a flexible way.
in writing. eu citizens, in this time of the virus emergency, have unfortunately also become aware of the lack of eu solidarity, which is particularly acute at such moments. this threat to the eu itself has been reduced somewhat by the joint procurement of medical equipment by the ec and by a number of other measures. but we are seeing geopolitical competitors engaging in targeted political action in places where cracks are emerging in the european union. what will be decisive is not just how fast, but how we overcome this crisis. thank you to the ecb for taking the right step to reduce the borrowing burden, especially for the most vulnerable countries. however, if we do not find ways to jointly finance public finances with the eum's capabilities or the euro's resources, both in the current fight against the pandemic and in the recovery of the economy from the crisis, leaving the financing to each member state, then we will see, at a minimum, a very deep scar on the face of eu "solidarity". it is possible that this confrontation will be so terrible that citizens in the member states most affected will simply want to go the other way. moreover, they will be geopolitically able to decide it. it is therefore only right that the ep votes today on the first step in the fight against the pandemic. but more importantly, will the european council today be able to decide on a common financing burden in this symmetrical crisis? without common steps, the eu will be even more polarized between richer and poorer member states.
in writing. the initial response of the european institutions to the coronavirus outbreak was lax and fragmented. the european citizens' perception of the european response is one of disillusionment. we must act quickly and take measures that reach people and businesses quickly. the european union needs strengthened cooperation in health, acting in a coordinated manner in the procurement and distribution of medicines and safety materials which are essential for health professionals and all those who provide services essential to the functioning of society. the fight against the pandemic will not be sustainable if we do not keep the economic and social fabric alive. some member states seem tempted to respond on their own. in the past, those who followed alone were the fastest to the abyss. we must be united and clear-sighted in a concerted economic and social response. a common european treasury with stabilizing functions must be created and euro bonds issued. a european minimum income during the crisis and a european unemployment insurance scheme must be introduced. exceptional measures must be taken for exceptional times. if we fail to meet the needs of the people in this crisis, we will fail in our mission and we will jeopardise the future of the european union.
before i announce the results of the votes, let me say hello to our colleagues who are streaming to the chamber and who took part in the first votes. i am also a little excited to say this, because this is the first time that a democratic parliament has used a method of remote participation. it 's never happened before . it is up to the european parliament to experience this, at a time of great emergency for the lives of our citizens. i am very grateful to all the political groups for their strong support for the idea that parliament should continue to function: we need parliament. we cannot stop the democratic process in the european union. we have many answers to give to our citizens at this time and we must of course feel responsible and obliged to do so. that is why i am also very grateful to all the structures of parliament, which have done a great deal of work in recent weeks to enable our colleagues to take part in this extraordinary plenary session today, using new methods, which have never been used before. i am not going to go into the details of the vote, but i would like to say that i am very pleased with the vote. (applause) with regard to the results on the requests for urgent procedure: as regards the allocation of slots at community airports common rules: the vote was 687 in favour, 687 against. (applause) second vote on specific measures to mobilise investment in the health systems of the member states and in other sectors of their economies in response to the covid-19 epidemic: the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. the request for urgency is therefore approved. on the third vote on financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession to the european union seriously affected by the serious public health emergency: the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. the request for urgency is therefore approved. i thank everyone for the patience and discipline that the members of parliament are showing in this test which concerns us, but above all for the response that we will be able to give to our citizens. i now move on to the terms of presentation: the deadline for tabling amendments to the other votes is 2 p.m. the deadline for requests for votes on separate and distinct parts is 4 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 12.48 p.m.)
i have received the following amendments: 'schedule allocation at community airports: common rules': 1 amendment; 'specific measures to mobilise investment in the health systems of the member states and in other sectors of their economies in response to the covid-19 outbreak (coronavirus response investment initiative) ': 4 amendments; 'financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession to the european union which are severely affected by a serious public health emergency': i am not sure that is the case.
i can only invite your colleague to listen to you, but i cannot do more than that. thank you for the tip, though. i have indicated the amendments received. we shall now vote on these amendments. i repeat, members will now receive their voting cards from the e-mail box 'plenaryvote@europarl.europa.eu'. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the vote will be taken in the same way as this morning, so we are all somewhat familiar with this system. the vote on the amendments will take place from 5.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. the vote will be taken on the following motions for resolutions: i invite you to vote by the time limit of 6:30 p.m. and not later. the results of the votes on the amendments will be announced at 8 p.m. all votes today will be by roll call. meps will be able to verify their votes and the results of the vote itself in the document which will be published today on the plenary's website. (the sitting was suspended at 5.38 p.m.)
the following 693 members took part in the vote: amendment no 1 'assignment of slots at community airports - common rules': the amendment is approved by an overwhelming majority. amendment no 2: rejected by a large majority. amendments nos 3 and 4: rejected amendment no 1: rejected amendment no 1 on financial assistance: rejected the details of the votes are available on parliament's website. meps will be able to check their votes and the results of the vote on the amendments in the document which will be published today on the plenary's website.
we now move on to the final votes: the vote will take place at the end of the debate. information on the voting procedure was distributed to all members by e-mail. the vote will be taken in the same way as this morning's vote and we are therefore now trained in the new methodology. the final voting will now be open from 8 p.m. until 9 p.m.: the vote is open. i invite you to vote within the one-hour time limit, at 9 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced at 10.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.10 p.m.)
the court is in session. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 688 members voted. the first vote on the allocation of slots at community airports: the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. on the second vote, 'specific measures for investment in health systems': the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. third vote on 'financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession to the european union seriously affected by the public health emergency': the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. this is the end of this extraordinary session of the european parliament. i thank all the members who have patiently exercised their right to vote in these very complex ways, which have, however, given us the opportunity to keep parliament alive at this time, with this plenary session and our decisions on the package presented by the commission. meps will now be able to verify their final vote in the document which will be published tomorrow.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 26 march 2020.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the work he has done. i would like to open the debate by expressing my thoughts, together with you, to the victims of the coronavirus, their families and their loved ones. i would also like to send our best wishes for a speedy recovery to all the sick people. at this time, our healthcare workers are at the forefront of the fight against this virus and deserve all our support, admiration and gratitude for the work they are doing and for the generosity that distinguishes them for operating in often dramatic situations. and our thoughts, of course, go out to all the volunteers, the health workers and the people who are bringing their support to those in need. i have said it before and i will say it again: the humanity of our citizens is the greatest asset we have. and i would also like to thank all those workers who keep our companies running, the farmers, the clerks, all those who work in telecommunications, the security people, the armed forces, the cashiers in the supermarkets, the line technicians who allow us to connect, to make phone calls and to be close. so many people, all active in their different fields of expertise, who with discipline and a sense of responsibility have not given up: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. and we should not forget all those citizens who make a difference with simple gestures, by respecting preventive measures, buying food for an elderly neighbour, calling isolated friends, taking care of the most fragile. small acts of concrete solidarity, as our parliament has also done by opening its kitchens to prepare 1 000 meals a day for the homeless and volunteers: in our premises in brussels, 100 vulnerable women will be housed. but we have also made the authorities in strasbourg and luxembourg available to use the parliament's premises for emergency activities. we owe a great deal to the host cities, and i would like to join you in greeting the citizens of brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg and to say that it will be nice to meet again soon and to continue working together for the european union. parliament's initiatives have been marked by urgency. i must confess that i have had to take on difficult initiatives, but i have always been supported and encouraged by all the political groups, no one excluded, and by the advice of many members of parliament. of course, the functioning of parliament would not have been possible without the extraordinary support of our staff and administration, who have been present with courage and sense of duty, and of all the directors-general. i would ask the secretary-general to extend our gratitude to the workers who are perhaps the most hidden, the cleaning women, the security men, and to all those on the staff of our directorates-general who have made it possible to put into practice the decisions we have taken. every effort, including that of keeping parliament open and functioning, with all its organs, must demonstrate that we, the institutions, are capable of taking care of people, that we want to make our values live even in an emergency, that democracy does not stop. these are difficult times and much more needs to be done, including a deep reflection on the society we will find ourselves living in after this difficult season. but the european union is already fully committed to meeting the needs of its citizens and member states, in their interests, in their common interest, and during this crisis and afterwards we will be even more so, because we want to emerge from this crisis stronger, more robust and better able to face the challenges that the global world will present to us tomorrow. the european union is acting to support health systems, to make essential medical supplies and medicines available, to support research, to help and preserve jobs, to support families and the poorest, and to provide aid to farmers, fishermen, entrepreneurs and workers. only together can we achieve results for the benefit of our citizens, which is why it will be of the utmost importance to coordinate the gradual removal of the containment measures and the way out of the crisis. we accept the call of the european commission - and i thank the president for his presence - for an orderly and coordinated exit from the emergency to avoid potentially devastating returns. it is particularly important to keep our democracies alive and to listen to our citizens. as their elected representatives, we will be discussing and voting at this session a very important resolution on the coordinated action of the european union to combat the pandemic and its consequences, together with other urgent measures. our efforts are aimed at giving guidance on the best measures to be taken and indicating the funds needed to make the maximum possible resources available to the member states. we must be ambitious because our citizens, the citizens of europe, expect quick answers to get their lives back on track. we are the voice of the people and we must be proud and proud, at this moment, to contribute with discipline to be useful in building a better future for our peoples.
at the last meeting of the conference of presidents on thursday 2 april, i decided, together with the leaders of the political groups, to convene parliament for the extraordinary part-session today and tomorrow, 16 and 17 april, in order to vote on the new commission measures to tackle covid-19 and to discuss and update the european parliament's position on how to combat the pandemic and its consequences. the revised provisional calendar for 2020 is available on the plenary's website.
i would like to inform you that i have received ten requests for urgent procedure, pursuant to rule 163, to add the following legislative and budgetary documents related to the covid-19 emergency to be adopted during the current plenary: regulation amending the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision. the commission shall be assisted by the committee on budgetary control. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. specific measures to provide exceptional flexibility in the use of european structural and investment fundsintroduction of specific measures to address the covid-19 epidemicspecific measures to mitigate the impact of the covid-19 epidemic in the fisheries and aquaculture sectormedical devices i therefore wish to put to the house, following consultations with the political groups, the following amendments to the final draft agenda: declarations by the european council and the commission on coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences: the debate will take place from 9.00 a.m. to 12.00 noon. the voting schedule for thursday 16 april and friday 17 april is as follows: the first round of voting will be open from 9.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. with votes on the above emergency procedures and on the first block of amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the results of the first round of voting are due to be announced at 1.30 p.m. the second round of voting will be open from 13.30 to 14.30, with a vote on the regulation amending the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and on the second block of amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on eu coordinated action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the results of the second round of voting are due to be announced at 5 p.m. the third round of voting will be open from 17.00 to 18.00, with votes on the third block of amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the eu's coordinated action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the results of the third round of voting are due to be announced at 8.30 p.m. the fourth round of voting will be open from 20.30 to 21.30, with votes on the fourth block of amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the eu coordinated action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. the results will be announced at 10.50 p.m. and the sitting will close at 11 p.m. fridaythe sitting will open at 9 a.m., with the first round of voting from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. and votes on amendments to: draft amending budget no 1/2020 and draft amending budget no 2/2020,two documents on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2020, the document on the mobilisation of the contingency margin, three co-decision documents on the 'corona package ii' and medical devices. the results are scheduled to be announced at 12:30 p.m. the second round of voting will be open from 12.30 to 13.30, with final votes on: draft amending budget no 1/2020 and draft amending budget no 2/2020, two documents on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2020,the document on the mobilisation of the contingency margin,three codecision documents on the 'corona package ii',medical devices,joint resolution on coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences the results are scheduled to be announced at 4 p.m. a third round of voting, on amendments or a final vote on a subsequent covid-19 motion for a resolution, could possibly take place from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m., with the results being announced at 7:30 p.m. a fourth round of voting, on amendments or a final vote on a subsequent motion for a resolution on the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences, could possibly take place from 19.30 to 20.30, with the results being proclaimed at 22.30. the closing of the sitting was to take place at 11 p.m. the amendment is hereby approved. before we begin the debate, i should like to inform you that i shall be opening the first round of voting at 9.30 a.m. the voting will be open from 9.30 to 10.30. all votes today will be by roll call. meps will be able to verify their votes and the results of the vote itself in the document which will be published today on the plenary's website.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on a coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences (2020/2616 ((rsp)).
president of the european council. mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak in a debate which is essential because it makes european democracy live, even when we are faced with circumstances of an unprecedented nature, of an exceptional nature. as you have done, i would also naturally like to begin by expressing my support for those who are directly or indirectly affected by this crisis, by this virus which is affecting europe but also the world. and, as you have done, we also want to express our thanks and gratitude to all citizens, particularly at european level, who are mobilized to accept such exceptional restrictions on such fundamental and elementary freedoms, which touch the very heart of each and every one of us. i also want to tell you that at a time like this there can be no doubt, no hesitation: the only option is to join hands, to join hands between citizens, between countries, with all the regions of the world. this is the basis for the determination and action that we, the european institutions, must mobilise together. so i would like to share with you some of the information to show how, starting from the european council, with the member states, we are also trying to take on a number of responsibilities. three european councils held by videoconference were devoted to the coronavirus crisis and to the ambition to try to improve considerably, day by day, the way in which actions are coordinated, the way in which european countries cooperate. you understand that the first ambition, when we measured the scale of this crisis, was to work to reduce the spread of the virus and therefore to encourage the taking of measures, with restrictions at the borders, which have an impact on the functioning of the european union, particularly the internal market, with also mobilizing to try to support our researchers, to make sure that we can be mobilized on vaccines, on therapies. it is in this sense that, in the framework of the g7 and the g20, in full cooperation with the european commission, we are trying to mobilize efforts, to encourage, for example, through a donor conference, a mobilization so that we can, as soon as possible, be able to scientifically hold the solutions through the vaccine and therapies. to be very specific and very direct, the last european council gave the president of the commission and the president of the european council a dual mandate: to work on a road map which is both about formulating recommendations, principles of good practice, to encourage maximum coordination between european countries when we can gradually enter the exit phase, the strategy of gradual exit from these restrictive measures which have had to be decided by most european countries with varying intensities, but always an approach which is in reality similar. the second part of the mandate is to propose to the heads of state or government a joint strategy to be able to develop progressively, in the short, medium and long term, a strategy for economic recovery and, i would also like to say, economic transformation. because i am convinced, as are many others, that we must learn all the lessons of this crisis and see how we can also ensure that tomorrow there is more strength, more efficiency, more cooperation and more capacity to work together. i would like to share with you what are, in my opinion, the four chapters for which it is very important to open the debate and try to take some decisions, to take steps together. the first priority, in my opinion, in order to succeed in such a recovery strategy is certainly the single market: how is it possible to repair the single market as soon as possible? but it is not only that: it is also how is it also possible to strengthen, to deepen the single market? because it's our first strength at the european level and it will be essential to try to consider that the european green deal and the digital agenda will be, no doubt in my opinion the first priority. it will be a very strong leverage in order to be successful in the next months, in the next years. i also think that it will be very essential to build a very strong industrial strategy and also, at the same time, to consider the network of the european smes as a very strong pillar. it is important, it is essential to continue to support our smes and to give them the possibility to build a strong strategy for the future. i also think that the issue of the circular economy will have to be developed further. there are very strong proposals, i know, which have already been debated in the european parliament, which are announced by the european commission. because this strength of the internal market, this capacity to further develop the circular economy, to build on the digital agenda, on this transformation through climate change too, must give us the opportunity to have more capacity for strategic independence from the european union. this is also why, in my view, the international role of the euro must be taken into account: more strong european assets also contribute to this capacity to have this international dimension for the euro. the second important point is, of course, the possibility of developing a very strong strategy in order to invest, to invest massively with the current approach, with a national dimension but also with a european ambition, and it is certain that we will continue all our political efforts in order to reach an agreement on the next european budget. we've had the opportunity to discuss a lot in the last two weeks, the last month, about this very difficult topic. but maybe it's a one-time thing. the next seven years: how is it possible with this european budget, to give some tools, some possibilities in order to develop this strong strategy which we need for our common future? the european investment bank is also an instrument that must be used. you know that a few weeks ago, in the negobox proposal, before this coronavirus crisis, i made a strong case that we could increase the capital of the european investment bank to increase its leverage and to focus on investments. it is clear that, as far as investments are concerned, there is an essential dimension of solidarity, linked to the internal market, because it will be important to guarantee a level playing field and to ensure that all european countries, all member states and all european citizens can be led with the same ambition to succeed in ensuring that we can meet this challenge we are facing. the third point i would like to mention, which is also essential for us, is the external action of the european union. the geopolitical ambition of the european union is more necessary than ever to promote the values we deeply believe in, to defend the interests that are being tested, as we have seen in the last few weeks in particular. on this question of external action, we are very convinced that a very specific focus on the relationship with the african continent is going to be important. i am glad that we have been able, together with several european leaders and with several african leaders, in the last few hours, to express very, very strong ambitions. in the short and medium term, it is about supporting more health systems on the african continent, reopening this debate on debts that weigh heavily on the ability to act from the african continent, but also ensuring that in the longer medium and long term, there is an ambition for smart investment in a partnership of mutual interest with the african continent, in infrastructure consistent with the digital agenda, consistent with the green deal, with climate change. i am absolutely convinced that there is a mutual interest, an objective alliance which we must be able to fully mobilize in the coming months and years. finally, the fourth point i would like to mention is this requirement to raise the question of european governance, to raise the question of european resilience as well. how can we, in retrospect, learn from this crisis to be stronger tomorrow, to improve decision-making processes, to improve cooperation processes? i have the impression that what has been announced - you have debated it a lot - this conference on the future of europe will offer, perhaps in the next few weeks or months - when there is the capacity to really start this ambition - the political space, the democratic space, to enable not only the european institutions but also the european citizens from wherever they have just been involved in this common ambition: how to learn the lessons together? and finally, it is certain that, in the context of this ambition to achieve a strategy of transformation, a strategy of recovery, the values which have founded this european project, these values of unity, solidarity and freedom must be points of reference, must be beacons that light the way. we have to address this crisis, we have to address this situation, we have to address this ability to raise our heads, to get our heads out of the water, by being totally mobilized on these values that we have to bring to light, that we have to actually consider as being central and as being driving forces. so you see, there are many challenges, and i think european history has shown that it is when we face the most difficult, that it is when we think the obstacle is insurmountable that, very often, we find the resource to cling together, the resource to come together, the resource to be engaged on the ground of unity, the resource to be creative. it's going to be necessary. there is no doubt that there are different sensitivities, opinions and ideas in europe about what needs to be done in the short, medium and long term. however, i am absolutely convinced that with optimism, determination and a strong desire to make this democratic heart of the european union live, to make sure that our institutions can function because they guarantee the legitimacy of this european ambition, there will be the capacity to make progress. in any case, mr president, you can count on me and the european council to maintain a close dialogue with your assembly and the european commission. i am grateful to the rapporteur for this motion for a resolution, which clearly defines the scope of the work that will have to be carried out in the short, medium and long term. you can count on the european council, also taking into account the reality of the european council and the 27 member states that make it up, to be a stakeholder and to try to move in the right direction.
i now declare the first round of voting open. the vote will be taken at 10.30 a.m.
the agenda includes a follow-up to the discussion on the statements of the european council and the commission on a coordinated eu action to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences (2020/2616 ((rsp)).
president of the commission. mr president of the parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we have no words to describe the pain of europe and the suffering of the world. we are thinking of all the victims and praying for all the bereaved families. we promise to tell their stories, to honor their lives and their memory. we will always remember each and every one of them. we will remember julie, the young frenchwoman with her whole life ahead of her, and yann, the czech historian who always fought for his values, or gino, the retired italian doctor who returned to the field to save the lives of others. we will remember the incredible gesture of suzanne in belgium, who left her respirator to the younger ones, and the image of francis saying goodbye to his brother through a hospital window in ireland. we will remember the young polish mother who did not see her baby grow up and the young spanish football coach who did not see his dream come true. we will never forget them, the mothers, the fathers, the sisters and the brothers, the young and the old from the north or the south, from the west or the east, the friends and the colleagues, the neighbours next door and the strangers farther away, those who have things to say and things to see, those on whose shoulders we weep and whose love we depend. each of these tens of thousands of stories breaks a small piece of our heart but also strengthens our determination that europe will do everything it can to save as many lives as possible. you can't overcome a pandemic of this speed and this scale without the truth. the truth about everything: the numbers, the science, the outlook but also about our own actions. yes, it is true that no one was really ready for this. it is also true that too many were not there at the time when italy needed a helping hand at the very beginning. and yes, for that, it is right that europe as a whole offers a heartfelt apology. but saying sorry only counts for something if it changes behavior, and the truth is, too, that it didn't take long before everyone realized that we must protect each other to protect ourselves. and the truth is that europe has now become the world's beating heart of solidarity. the true europe is standing up: the one that is there for each other when it is needed the most. the one where paramedics from poland and doctors from romania save lives in italy. where ventilators from germany provide a lifeline in spain. where hospitals in czechia treat the sick from france. and where patients from bergamo are flown to clinics in bonn. we have seen medical supplies go from lithuania to spain and respirators go from denmark to italy. in fact, we have seen every piece of equipment go in every direction across europe, from whoever can spare it to whoever needs it. this makes me proud to be european. of course, there are still some who want to point fingers and deflect blame. and there are others who would rather talk like populists than tell unpopular truths. to this i say: stop it stop and have the courage to tell the truth. have the courage to stand up for europe. because this union of bears will get us through. but it will only be as strong tomorrow as we make it today. and if you need inspiration, just look at the way the people of europe are standing together with empathy, humility and humanity. and i pay tribute to all of them. to the delivery drivers and the food suppliers. the shopkeepers, the factory packers and the balcony clappers. the companies changing their production lines to make the supplies we urgently need. i pay tribute to the portuguese volunteers sewing masks for their neighbors, or the seven-year-old greek pianist who composed an "isolation waltz" to keep people going. above all else i thank and i pay tribute to our heroes: the medics, the nurses, the careworkers. they are the ones with bruises on their faces and tragic images in their minds. the ones holding the hands of the sick as softly and as lovingly as the families that can't be there. they are the ones saving our lives and saving our honor. the ones we must protect so that they can protect us all. and that's what we're focusing on. therefore, we now have a common stock of medical equipment. this is why we are investing together in research into vaccines. therefore we have a central office for the procurement of the most urgently needed goods on the world market. and that's why we've assembled a team of the best experts from all over europe, who regularly share their knowledge, that life can be saved. for this reason, we do not charge duties and value added tax on the importation of medical devices from third countries. and that is why we made a simple but great promise at the beginning of this month: we will use every euro we have, in every way we can, to save lives and protect the livelihoods of europeans. the commission has therefore proposed, in its communication, that the total amount of the available funds be allocated to the current budget in a non-exhaustive programme. the eu has also been able to provide almost 3 billion euro directly to those who need it: in new medical equipment and protective equipment, in more tests and more medical aid for the weakest, including those who die in the refugee camps. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. this means that we can be fully flexible: the funds can be used in other regions. they can be used wherever they are most urgently needed, regardless of other usual constraints such as cofinancing, purpose-building or over-capacity. with this package, which this house is voting on today, europe is reaching the limits of its possibilities. and the same principle applies to protecting people's livelihoods. europe has had economic crises before. but we've never had an economic shutdown like this. nobody is to blame and everybody will need support. we need unprecedented measures to do this and to make sure our economy is ready to bounce forward as soon as possible. and here again, the truth matters. europe has done more in the last four weeks than it did in the first four years of the last crisis. we have made our state aid rules more flexible than ever. in the last few days alone, we have approved schemes that will provide eur 1 billion to croatian businesses, eur 1.2 billion to greek smes or eur 20 million to portuguese fishermen. there are many more examples i could pick, from latvia and estonia to belgium or sweden. for the first time in our history, we triggered the full flexibility in the stability and growth pact. along with bold measures taken by the european central bank, this provides unprecedented fiscal and financial power. and last week's decision by eu finance means a further eur 500 billion will be available to all of those who need it. as part of this, i urge all member states to make the most of sure the new scheme proposed by the commission to protect europeans against the risk of unemployment. it will provide eur 100 billion to help governments make up the difference if your employer has reduced your hours or if you are self-employed and need support. the beauty of sure is two-fold. first, it will help those in need to pay their rent, bills or food, and keep other businesses alive in the process. and secondly, it is the definition of european solidarity. the member states that can, will put up guarantees so others can support the hardest hit in their countries. as a result of all of this action, europe's collective response is well above eur 3 trillion. this is the most impressive response anywhere in the world. but we know we will need more. a lot more. because this will be a long haul, and the world of tomorrow will look very different from that of yesterday. i am convinced that europe can shape this new world if it works together and rediscovers its pioneering spirit. and for this, i want to quote a sentence from the ventotene manifesto, written by two of italy and europe's greatest visionaries: ernesto rossi and altiero spinelli, one of our founding fathers. writing from their prison on a remote island, at the height of the war, when all hope of a united europe seemed lost, they gave us these words of confidence: "the moment has arrived in which we must know how to discard old burdens, how to be ready for the new world that is coming, that will be so different from what we have imagined". dear friends, this moment has arrived once again. the moment to put behind us the old divisions, disputes and recriminations. to come out of our entrenched positions. the moment to be ready for that new world. to use all the power of our common spirit and the strength of our shared purposes. the starting point for this must be making our economies, societies and way of life more sustainable and resilient. finding the answers in this new world will require courage, trust and solidarity. and it will need massive investment to jump-start our economies. we need a marshall plan for europe's recovery, and it needs to be put in place immediately. there is only one instrument we have that is trusted by all member states, which is already in place and can deliver quickly. it is transparent and it is time-tested as an instrument for cohesion, convergence and investment. and that is the european budget. the european budget will be the mother ship of our recovery. and for that reason, the next seven-year budget must be different to what we have imagined, just as spinelli said. we will use the power of the entire european budget to leverage the huge amount of investment we need to rebuild the single market after corona. we will frontload it so we can power that investment in those crucial first years of recovery. because this crisis is different from any other one we've known. it is severely hitting completely healthy companies because public life has shutdown. and this is why we will need innovative solutions and more headroom in the mff so it can unlock massive public and private investment. this will kick-start our economies and drive our recovery towards a more resilient, green and digital europe. by that, we not only support but reshape our industries and services towards a new reality. it will mean investing in our digital technologies, infrastructure and in innovation, such as 3d printing, to help us be more independent and make the most of new opportunities. and it also means doubling down on our growth strategy by investing in the european green deal. as the global recovery picks up, global warming will not slow down. first-mover advantage will count double and finding the right projects to invest in will be key. a more modern and circular economy will make us less dependent and boost our resilience. and this is the lesson we need to learn from this crisis. investing in large-scale renovation, renewables, clean transport, sustainable food and nature restoration will be even more important than before. this is not only good for our economies, it's not only good for our environment, but it will reduce dependencies by shortening and diversifying supply chains. and we also need to keep another reality in mind. while the crisis is symmetric, recovery is not. because not only the virus hits but also the economic shock. some regions will bounce back and others will have a harder time. and therefore, cohesion and convergence will be more important than ever before. the single market and cohesion policy are the two sides of the same coin. you both need to ensure prosperity across the whole european union. this is the europe that i believe can emerge from this crisis. one that does everything it can to protect lives and livelihoods. one that is open to the world but can take care of itself. one that is more resilient, green and digital and that invests in its future together. this is the path to recovery. it will be a long road and the whole world will be trying to find its way. this crisis will likely redefine our politics, our geopolitics and possibly globalization itself. and in this new world, europe will need to stick together through thick and thin. and as i look around our union and i see all that humanity and that ingenuity, i know that we can and we will do just that. they say a strong soul shines bright after every storm. if we all stand up for europe today with courage, trust and solidarity i know that tomorrow europe's soul will shine brighter than ever before. long live the europe. long live the europe. the european union is a great country.
and now let us listen to the political groups. we also have the opportunity at this stage of making some contacts with the group chairmen, and we hope that this will work and that it will also allow us to experiment with new mechanisms which, of course, are all to be experimented with and invented.
on behalf of the ppe group dear david, dear charles, dear ursula, thank you for being physically with us. as long as the plague lasts, parliament cannot be closed down or become a remote institution. like supermarkets or firefighters, parliament is an essential service during the pandemic. in times of extraordinary powers for governments, parliament is the hospital of democracy. we're here today, but millions of citizens are wondering where we were when all this started. following ursula's example, i say to you: we could have acted sooner, we could have acted faster, we could have even acted together. that's why you have to apologize. european governments and european institutions are not to blame for the plague, but they should have been prepared for it and should have reacted quickly. we didn't do either of those things. so it would be good if we apologized from here and stopped treating the elderly dead as war heroes: they are victims. we were wrong to dismiss a virus as important because it came from china, and we can be wrong again if we settle for the certainty that this nightmare will end when summer arrives. in spain, we learned yesterday that there are at least 5 000 deaths that have not been counted - almost all elderly people who died in homes or in residences - and that as more tests are being done, more infections will appear. we're always wrong when we think this virus is going to go for the best hypothesis; this virus is always going for the worst hypothesis. now we're making plans as if the virus isn't coming back in the fall, but what if it does? we're assuming that if he comes back, he'll be weakened or we'll have a vaccine, but what if we don't? the second flu wave of 1918 was the worst. we assume that europe has already paid the price, but what if it explodes in africa or explodes in the middle east? i am not saying that we should assume the worst; i am asking that, as policy makers, we should never rule out the worst. in china, where it all began, 3,300 people died. spain, with less than 4% of china's population, already has 18 000 - and we are not counting all of them - and italy 21 000. given that italy and spain have two of the best health systems in the world, it is pertinent to ask: has china told us the whole truth? what game are we playing? the four horsemen of today's apocalypse are: coronavirus, unemployment, nationalism, and the lie - the lie kills as much as the virus. in europe, the plague is killing our parents' generation and we all have the feeling that the council is treating the matter as business as usual. is the single market really the council's first priority at this very moment, mr president? it seems that some governments come to brussels just to see how much money they can take, and others come to brussels to see that others do not take so much money, but nobody comes to worry about the europeans as a whole. to come to brussels to defend exclusively national interests is also nationalism, even if our prime ministers do not know it. if fear of death affects us all, if death affects us all, if the virus doesn't distinguish between countries, what's the point of national governments distinguishing between those affected or killed by their nationalities? ladies and gentlemen of the council, we are no longer in the 'whatever it takes' moment of draghi, but in the moment of now or never. china built a hospital in less time than the council needs to convene - not to meet, to convene. does that mean that the chinese dictatorship is more effective than our democracy? no, it means we're not effective, nothing more. this is the moment to show that europeanism can also be effective, that europeanism can also be epic, that europeanism can also be patriotic, that europeanism can also be human. it's time to show that borders are never the answer. if the european union is not good enough to deal with a pandemic that affects the whole continent, what good is the european union? mr president-in-office, it is now or never. within the epp, and among the groups which have signed the resolution, we have made a great effort to reach consensus. i hope it will serve as an example to the council. the european union represents the great hope of millions of spaniards who are affected, or dead, or sick, by the virus, millions of europeans who are affected, or dead, or sick, by the virus. let's not give the populists the benefit of the doubt. let's not give the nationalists the benefit of the doubt. let us not give the lie to the liars: the spanish flu killed more people from hunger than from fever. we didn't give the virus the benefit of the doubt.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs von der leyen, mr michel, let me begin this plenary session by saying a few words to the victims who have died from covid-19 and also to all those who are now in hospitals, at home, trying to beat the disease. and a thank you also to the many and many professionals who these days are risking their lives for others, starting with the health personnel, but also for the state security forces, the cleaners, workers of supermarkets and pharmacies, transporters, farmers, carers of nursing homes ... to all of you - because let's not forget that most of you are women - thank you very much. ladies and gentlemen, this is a pivotal moment in our history. this coronavirus pandemic has hit us in ways we couldn't have imagined: our security, our freedom of movement, our daily lives, we don't yet know how they will change. some things are out of control, it's true, but others are up to us. let us be clear: the decisions we take now will determine whether europe emerges stronger or whether citizens lose confidence in this project. although at the beginning of this crisis we saw the spontaneous emergence of selfish attitudes and nationalist reactions, little by little we have managed to get the european union to react and to put solidarity measures into practice, because that is what the european union is for. it was created after the second world war, in a time of devastation, to avoid competition between states and to ensure that reconstruction brought prosperity to all. we are now living in a time of crisis comparable only to the great depression and we need another reconstruction plan comparable to the marshall plan. it is not enough to increase the budget; it must be a real investment strategy and the strengthening of strategic sectors to ensure europe's future. so this is the moment when we can and must be ambitious and rebuild europe on a new basis. this crisis is revealing great social inequalities, and also inequalities between territories. we cannot allow this crisis to open an even bigger gap. on the contrary, public policies are needed to ensure that we are all equally protected to get ahead. it's time to strengthen public policies, starting with health. it is time to protect the millions of europeans who are losing their jobs and who do not know how to make ends meet or how they will be able to pay their rent. it is time for a strong and united european economy and for the euro area to be finally equipped with all the mechanisms it needs to cope with international financial shocks. this includes, of course, the mutualisation of part of our countries' debts, as we propose with the issue of reconstruction bonds. it is time to renew our economy to be more environmentally and resource-friendly, and to digitize it. this crisis has shown us that we need to democratize technology so that all citizens and businesses, wherever they are, can benefit from it for work, for study, for research, for relationships between people. we are seeing these days how there are many children who, due to lack of resources, cannot access online classes, and we must understand that it is necessary to act in this regard. all these ideas are not new, they have been on the table for a long time, like the european green deal or the eurobonds, which we talked about during the 2008 crisis. but now it is more urgent than ever; it is the moment of truth and we cannot fail history. we know what needs to be done, we have put it in black and white in the joint resolution that we have been able to negotiate between the four major groups in this parliament. i would, of course, have liked more groups to join us and i hope, in any case, that members and other groups will join this strong call from the european parliament for action from the european commission and the council. we know what must be done; we just need the political courage to do it, and in this parliament we are demonstrating today that we are aware of our historic responsibilities, that we are able to overcome our ideological and national lines to think about the common interest of all europeans. in this resolution we propose urgent measures and others in the medium and long term. all are necessary: the urgent ones to save lives, first of all, but also to create an emergency network that so many people need to survive. the more decisive our action now, the less impact the economic and social crisis will have, the sooner we will get out, and the sooner we will all return to normal economic activity. in fact, at this time of unity and cooperation of the international community to fight the pandemic, it is regrettable to see how trump, for example, proposes to stop funding to the world health organization, and i think that in europe too we must raise this issue and claim it. this is a crisis that affects all the countries of the european union and we must get all the countries out of it with equal strength and determination. it would be unacceptable for covid-19 to create new inequalities between member states, thus delaying european convergence. there are many citizens who are disillusioned with the european union, but that means they believe in us: they are disappointed because they expect more from us. this is our chance to show them that the european union is worth believing in, that the principles of solidarity and justice we have set out are true, and that now is the time to prove it. if the commission and the council were not up to the task at the beginning of this crisis, parliament will now demand that they take responsibility. it's not too late, because we have a long way to go. i say to the heads of government in the council: we are on time, but we have not a minute to lose. it's our responsibility.
on behalf of the renew group. dear president david sassoli, dear charles, dear ursula and dear colleagues, first of all i want to pay tribute to our healthcare professionals, tired from weeks of fighting covid-19. the whole of europe thanks you and i know the battle is far from over. i also pay tribute to all those who demonstrate the strength of our democracy and its ability to face difficult decisions, which upset the lives of millions of citizens. the europe we need is one of solidarity movements, collective creativity and generosity in everyday life. we live in difficult times, a test for all of us, but this test, along with the choices we make, will forever determine the way we live our lives. we will build the world afterwards by the lessons we learn from this crisis. first, we have a responsibility to learn all the lessons of this health crisis. we will not be better able to face things if we do not recognise that at the beginning of this crisis, the retreat into the choice of certain member states and the initial impotence of the commission left a bitter taste in the mouths of european citizens. this is the starting point, if we want to heal ourselves not only from the virus but also from our egoisms that make us powerless. if we have to wear masks to protect ourselves from the virus, we have to drop the masks that prevent us from acknowledging our mistakes. we've seen the fragility of our health care systems and the need to build more resilient systems. the europe we want is not the europe of useless walls but the europe of trains and helicopters that we see crossing borders, taking patients to places where beds are still free. the europe we want is the one that will find the cure for the disease and is ready to share it. the momentum of solidarity and spontaneous cooperation must be structured into a european health mechanism that makes europe better prepared and more sovereign for the next time. faced with the crises of tomorrow, europe must be prepared to face the next crisis in complete independence. for that we need to think now about this european health mechanism which must be in place. secondly, the economy. we all used the same phrase: whatever it takes. now, let's get down to business. not one of our member states is able to emerge from this crisis stronger on its own, no matter how powerful it is and whether or not it is a member of the eurozone. we must not be alone but together this time. i have told the member states and the commission that this is not the time to play small. let us strike hard with a massive recovery plan, as ursula von der leyen said, with a new marshall plan, with the prospect of digital and the green deal. we have the strategy, now we need the ambition to implement it. it is for investment, it is for jobs, it is for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the industries of tomorrow. this crisis is putting a strain on the internal market, which must be respected and strengthened. thirdly, no, authoritarian regimes are no better equipped than our open, democratic societies, based on freedom and respect for collective rules. fear, concealment, and withdrawal are not antidotes but poisons. under no circumstances should democratic values or our individual freedoms be called into question. and that is something that everyone needs to hear, including viktor orbán. we must also do whatever it takes to heal our democracy and restore the rule of law by any means possible. all these issues raise the question: what will europe be like after this crisis? a mammoth with clay feet or a shuttle that is agile and robust and always in the right place? we need not wait for the next crisis to understand that our future as romanians, italians, poles or swedes will not be directly proportional to our individualism but will be directly proportional to our ability to work together. this crisis demonstrates the urgency of tackling the draft conference on the future of europe, which is more relevant than ever. let us therefore seize this opportunity to bring order to the european house with courage, to build a safer, more community-based and more democratic world. this crisis must not be the occasion for another war. let us make it an opportunity to fight against our self-sufficiency, our hypocrisy, our prejudice and renew the world in which we live from what we have learned from this crisis in a positive way.
mr president, we are right now at a time where we are talking a lot about solidarity, but unfortunately for the principle of solidarity, we need to prove that it is more than just a rhetorical exercise. that is in this period of easter, about really taking care of one another. we have solidarity in our small communities back home. we need solidarity between different parts of our countries, we need solidarity between the states of the european union. and this exercise related to solidarity is part of the fibre of the european union. it’s about the values that define us now. the crisis affects all of us, but not all of us have equal chances and tools to respond to the social and economic challenges generated by it. i’m saying this because 22% of the population of the european union is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, including 25% – one in four – of children in the european union. this current crisis may affect people throughout europe, but it is actually affecting people that are often invisible in our society. social distancing is not an option in overcrowded housing and poor neighbourhoods, and the loss of jobs can only further exacerbate poverty. discrimination in terms of access to information and to basic services exposes these people to even greater risk of social exclusion and disease. renew europe militates for solidarity and also for the use of existing resources and mechanisms at european level to tackle this outbreak. we will vote in parliament the amendments proposed by the european commissioner to regulation 223 on the fund for european aid to the most deprived. the proposed changes would bring flexibility to the instrument, additional funding – applying the 100% co-financing rate and will cut red tape – all these measures are part of the timely response, and we need to communicate that to the european citizens.
in writing. no european country is immune to the devastating consequences of the covid-19 virus and the response to the pandemic requires a truly european approach. one of the most important lessons is that we have a lot of work to do to ensure that the health systems of the member states are coordinated. we must act as a union to ensure that in the future such a crisis never affects any of the member states so strongly. this means constantly monitoring the performance of member states' health systems, improving the capacity to manage risks and optimising the response to crises. the european health response mechanism is also urgently needed to be able to respond quickly when vital materials and equipment are missing in one of europe's regions. mutual support at european level is the only solution, as demonstrated by the creation of the first strategic medical equipment pool under resceu. the second major lesson of this crisis is that we cannot respond effectively unless we preserve our european identity. even in a state of emergency, we must remain true to the values that are part of the european dna. the rule of law, freedom of information, freedom of the press and transparency of decisions cannot be sacrificed.
in writing. the effective fight against the coronavirus pandemic requires a broad european consensus and eu-wide coordination of measures by each member state. the european parliament's decision on action against the coronavirus pandemic makes a number of concrete proposals for joint actions, the implementation of which would represent a substantial step forward in overcoming the current serious situation. unfortunately, the decision also contains several ideological and untrue allegations about the crisis management measures in hungary. however, the reality is that hungary has not yet adopted any law in the fight against the new coronavirus pandemic that would contradict either its own constitution or european union law, which was subsequently confirmed by the vice president of the european commission in a statement. unlike many other eu member states, the hungarian parliament has very strong powers of control and the deadline for crisis management measures in an emergency situation ends specifically with the end of the crisis situation. we are in a crisis of unprecedented proportions, when all our efforts should be focused on defending against the epidemic, and not on ideologically based, baseless and double standards accusations. that is why i cannot support the resolution.
president of the juri commission. mr president, before i begin my speech, i would like to thank you, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, and express my utmost solidarity with all those sectors that have been working tirelessly to overcome this crisis: the health sector, the state security forces and bodies, which have helped so much to keep us safe and sound. the coronavirus crisis has brought a before and after in the development of our society. the fight against the virus has forced us to do things we never would have imagined: confinement in our own homes - often far from our loved ones - the paralysis of a large part of economic activity and the loss of numerous jobs. the suspension of the way we all led our lives gives the measure of the effort that has been demanded of the citizenry, and we have to live up to our representatives. companies, the self-employed, have also been trying for months to show their best so that they can survive this crisis and go on and continue their business once it's all over. the institutions, to be up to the task, must give voice and defend the interests of our companies. and the issue before us is an excellent opportunity to do that. companies set up in the form of european public limited companies will not be able to comply with the current legal obligation to hold shareholders' meetings in the first six months of the year. the restrictions imposed on us by the pandemic prevent that. the commission's proposal is therefore pure common sense. the amendment is intended to reform the legislation in this area so that in 2020 a derogation from this rule for shareholders' meetings can be introduced, extending the time limit for holding them for a further six months, until 31 december of this year. the use of digital media should also be encouraged so that they can also be held at a distance. it is, as i say, an unavoidable and necessary reform. it is also important that it be dealt with under the urgency procedure and approved immediately. it is unacceptable that these companies today do not know for sure whether they will have to hold their shareholders' meetings next month, with all the health risks that this entails, or whether they will have to wait and be able to hold them in the next six months. we need to send a message that makes it clear that our commitment is to help and protect. europe's future and credibility are at stake in every crisis, and every response we give to the problems of every sector, every group and every citizen represents what this house is supposed to represent. i know that we will be able to do so, and that is why i ask you to vote in favour.
we shall be voting on six requests for urgent procedure under rule 163 of the rules of procedure on the documents mentioned. as regards the two council positions on 'tire labelling: fuel consumption and other essential parameters' and 'minimum requirements for water reuse', i note that no proposals have been tabled to reject or amend the council positions under articles 67 and 68 of the regulation. the proposed acts are therefore deemed to be approved. before we open the votes, i would like to thank the directorate-general for the presidency for the excellent work it has done, which has further improved the voting system by working very continuously and efficiently during these weeks of emergency. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. two test votes were taken to familiarize everyone with the procedure. the voting will now be open from 3.30 p.m. to 4.45 p.m. all votes today will be by roll call. meps will be able to check their votes and the results of the votes by consulting the plenary's website. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, only voting statements of a maximum length of 400 words will be accepted. i call the first round of voting open. you have until 4:45 to vote. the results of the vote will be announced at 7.45 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 3.31 p.m.)
the agenda includes the joint discussion on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the extraordinary european council meeting of 23 april 2020 (2020/2625 ((rsp)) and the statements by the council and the commission on the new mff, own resources and recovery plan (2020/2631 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate, nor will there be any blue-card questions.
president of the european council. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the house for giving me again this opportunity to take the floor here. this crisis is unprecedented and it means that we need to take unprecedented decisions. and that’s why i am convinced that a very strong cooperation between the democratic and legitimate european institutions will be vital in the next weeks, in the next months. it’s an occasion for me today to share with you some comments after the fourth video conference after the last european council. as you probably know, we have taken some very strong orientations. the first goal was to endorse the proposals made by the ministers of finance in order to mobilise more than eur 540 billion in order to support the workers, the companies, but also the member states. we have asked the ministers of finance to implement this decision by june 1st. of course, we all know here, but also in the european council, that it’s not enough. and i would say that this european council was the occasion to shift from crisis management in the short-term to more and more the mid-term and long-term vision about what we need to do, especially in order to have a strong debate about the orientations for the recovery strategy and, i would add, for the transformation strategy of our economic and social model. cette quatrième vidéoconférence a été l’occasion de débattre également sur la base de la feuille de route pour la relance et la transformation économique préparée ensemble avec la présidente de la commission. j’ai eu l’occasion précédemment à ce conseil européen de présenter les quatre chapitres que nous mettions sur la table et je voudrais ici me concentrer plus particulièrement sur deux aspects qui ont fait l’objet des débats et qui doivent continuer à nous mobiliser dans les prochaines semaines et les prochains mois. le premier point reste l’importance d’être tout entier mobilisés sur la question du marché intérieur. comment peut-on renforcer le marché intérieur et comment, surtout, peut-on considérer que les défis qui existaient avant cette pandémie n’ont pas disparu avec cette pandémie: l’agenda climatique et l’agenda digital. je vous rappelle que, quelques mois à peine avant le début de cette pandémie, des décisions très fortes et, j’ai envie de dire même, de portée historique, avaient été prises notamment par le conseil européen, avec le soutien d’ailleurs très engagé du parlement européen, pour considérer que la neutralité climatique de l’union européenne devait être un objectif mobilisateur pour soutenir nos entreprises, pour soutenir notre transformation économique et sociale. il en va de même pour cette ambition digitale. continuer à agir plus que jamais va être nécessaire dans cette direction-là en considérant que climat et agenda digital doivent être au centre du projet commun que nous voulons mettre en œuvre. le marché intérieur, c’est aussi le débat sur l’autonomie stratégique de l’union européenne, et nous sentons dans ce conseil européen une orientation de plus en plus partagée pour considérer que l’on doit tirer les leçons du passé, tirer les enseignements et ramener en europe des capacités de production, certainement dans le domaine stratégique. j’ai envie de dire, pour paraphraser ce qui a été évoqué au conseil européen, ramenons du made in europe. il y a là une question qui est tout à fait centrale: la crise a démontré l’importance d’être mobilisés sur ce sujet et d’avoir une stratégie qui intègre ce raisonnement-là. à côté de cet important engagement sur le marché intérieur et en ayant formulé la demande à la commission européenne de présenter prochainement un rapport sur la manière dont les différents écosystèmes européens sont affectés d’ores et déjà et comment ils le seront peut-être probablement dans les prochaines semaines, afin que l’on puisse disposer d’une information qui soit la plus utile possible. the second point, the single market, but also the second important point, is of course the financing and the essential importance to develop a very strong and ambitious strategy, to mobilise more means based on two very strong tools. the first one is the european budget and we had in the last weeks, the last month, many debates together about this orientation for the next european budget. more than ever, we need to take decisions. we need to adapt also our strategy in order to take into consideration the consequences, the huge consequences, of this crisis. but it’s not enough – the next european budget, and that’s why we have taken this very strong commitment to work together in order to launch a recovery fund, in order to be able to mobilise more means, more money, to identify what are the priorities in the near future. et dans ce cadre, de ces deux instruments qui doivent être mobilisés, certains, j’en étais d’ailleurs, avaient appelé à l’idée de mobiliser une stratégie de type plan marshall. j'ai proposé, je veux le faire ici encore, monsieur le président, qu’on puisse travailler sur ce que j’appelle, pour ce qui me concerne, un plan de gasperi, du nom d’un des pères fondateurs italiens, afin de travailler ensemble sur les modalités en termes de financement, qui doivent faire l’objet du débat. comment va-t-on financer? comment va-t-on identifier la hauteur des moyens qui sont nécessaires? et comment va-t-on identifier l’interaction entre ce fonds de relance et de transformation d’un côté, et le prochain budget européen? et surtout, comment va-t-on s’accorder sur la manière de mobiliser les moyens? comment avec bon sens, avec efficacité, va-t-on mobiliser les moyens qui sont nécessaires pour réussir cette relance économique? enfin, à côté de ce débat sur la relance, sur la transformation qui va devoir se poursuivre au départ des propositions que la commission européenne fera en prenant en considération cette pandémie, qui amènera la commission à mettre de nouvelles propositions sur la table, à côté de ces dispositions-là, il est un autre point que je voudrais mettre en évidence à l’occasion de ce moment qu’il m’est donné de partager avec vous. c’est l’importance de ne pas perdre de vue que l’objectif fondamental du projet européen depuis son lancement après la deuxième guerre mondiale a été non seulement la paix et la prospérité, mais cette idée que c’est ensemble, en coopérant ensemble, en travaillant ensemble pour plus de solidarité et d’unité, que l’on peut relever les défis auxquels nous faisons face. et le moteur de ce projet européen a été, tout au long des dernières décennies aussi, cette question de la convergence européenne: faire reculer les disparités, faire reculer les différences. et, plus que jamais, face à cette crise, nous ressentons à quel point il va être essentiel de convaincre l'ensemble des états membres que cette crise ne doit pas être une raison, un prétexte, une excuse pour aggraver des divergences sur le plan européen, pour aggraver des différences et des disparités sur le plan européen, mais au contraire, doit nous renforcer dans cette volonté commune de travail pour plus de convergence, pour plus de cohésion et pour plus d'intégration européenne. plus que jamais, je partage la conviction que cette crise révèle à quel point la solution c'est plus de coopération, plus de convergence, plus d'intégration et pas l'inverse. parce que l'on sait que l'inverse, ça voudra dire beaucoup plus de fragilité et beaucoup plus d'incapacité. on le voit quand on est confronté à un impact de manière globale qui nécessite des réponses qui doivent être globales naturellement. enfin, je voudrais vous dire qu'il y a un autre point extrêmement important. on voit des premiers impacts déjà très durs sur le plan économique, par exemple dans le secteur du tourisme, par exemple dans le secteur du transport aérien et dans beaucoup d'autres secteurs également. nous voyons bien qu'il y a, pour les prochains jours, les prochaines semaines, la nécessité de travailler activement sur la base des propositions qui sont émises par la commission, de recommandations, même si les états membres ont des capacités de décision sur la question des frontières, sur la question du tourisme, il est important que très rapidement, sur base de ces propositions qui sont émises, les états membres soient assis ensemble autour d'une même table, les manches retroussées, pour essayer d'avoir de la cohérence, pour avoir aussi la capacité de relever ce défi-là. j'en appelle à la réouverture des frontières européennes dès qu'il sera possible, en prenant bien sûr les mesures de précaution qui doivent être prises, mais la question de la libre circulation des personnes, une question extrêmement importante, la capacité de progressivement rouvrir nos capacités de développement économique est aussi extrêmement essentielle sur le plan social. et j'espère que l'on pourra, dans les prochains jours, réellement faire des progrès, en permettant que les états membres soient autour d'une même table pour prendre des décisions de concert, de manière cohérente, de manière synchronisée et pour montrer là aussi notre capacité de résilience européenne. enfin, je voudrais vous dire, même si ce n'est pas directement lié aux débats du dernier conseil européen, qu'il me paraît central, au moment où je m'adresse au parlement européen, de dire avec solennité, comme président du conseil européen, que la primauté du droit européen est effectivement un sujet central quand il s'agit de faire progresser les idées européennes, faire progresser la coopération européenne et, en cela, le rôle de la cour européenne de justice est un rôle central pour garantir une interprétation uniforme du droit européen. il y a 70 ans, robert schuman exprimait, au travers d'une déclaration qui, aujourd'hui encore, constitue un socle, constitue une fondation pour ce projet européen, des valeurs qui, pour l'époque, étaient extrêmement innovantes dans un moment où, quelques années encore auparavant, des nations se faisaient la guerre, des générations se méfiaient les unes des autres, avaient fait le choix du repli qui avait amené la tragédie. je ne m'exprimerai pas sur la question de savoir si ce à quoi nous faisons face se situe dans le champ de la guerre. chacun trouve la capacité de développer la motivation pour faire face aux défis auxquels nous sommes confrontés, mais je vois en tout cas un point commun en cette situation il y a plus de soixante-dix ans et la situation aujourd'hui. nous faisons face à une crise globale, à une crise grave, à une crise sans précédent. et, de la même manière qu'à l'époque, il a fallu de la ressource, de la créativité, de l'innovation, de l'audace, du courage, sortir des œillères qui avaient, pendant des décennies, tiré le monde vers le bas, de la même manière, plus que jamais, la question est de savoir si cette génération politique, cette génération citoyenne aura la capacité d'audace, d'innovation, de créativité et de courage pour faire en sorte que l'on puise, dans le drame de cette crise, dans la peine et dans le malheur auquel sont confrontées tant et tant de familles exposées très directement, que l'on trouve la ressource et l'énergie transformatrice pour faire de ce projet européen qui, de mon point de vue, est probablement une des plus belles idées politiques de l'histoire des femmes et des hommes, pour que l'on puisse faire de ce projet européen une capacité de relever ce défi et d'amener ce qui est au cœur de ce projet, finalement, la dignité des personnes d'amener des sociétés bienveillantes, des sociétés qui soient rassemblées afin de pouvoir regarder l'avenir avec davantage d'optimisme.
president of the commission. mr president, dear charles michel, i would like to thank you for your report. in the seventy years since the schuman declaration, europe has not been unfamiliar with crises and challenges. as you rightly said, in many ways europe's motto has always been not only 'united in diversity' but also 'united in adversity'. and today, in this time of adversity and in response to this crisis, europe needs unity, determination and ambition more than ever. and it is in this spirit that the commission is working on an ambitious recovery plan for europe, as you call for in your resolution today. ladies and gentlemen, we all know why action is needed and in the last few weeks you have often heard me speak about what europe must do. today i want to talk about how. i want to present to you the architecture and main features of the ambitious recovery plan for europe that we are working on. but to do that, we must first understand the anatomy of this very particular crisis. allow me three remarks ahead of the analysis. we've had economic slowdowns before, but we've never had an economic shutdown like the last three months. our economies have been on hold. supply chains have been disrupted severely. demand has collapsed. the truth is that we will not just go back to "business as usual" soon. our economies and societies will open slowly, cautiously, gradually. while schools stay closed we all know that most parents will have to continue with "home-office", and while social distancing measures rightly stay in place, businesses will have to rethink their workplaces and the way they work. in other words, we will recover but it will take time. my second point. the virus is the same in every member state, yes, but the capacity to respond and absorb the shock is very different. for example, we all know countries and regions with economies that are built on customer-facing services like, for example, tourism or culture, have suffered way more. we should not forget that those who were first hit by the virus were often hit the hardest, because it was the painful experience and the full transparency of italy and spain in dealing with a pandemic that helped others brace themselves for the impact. my third point. every member state has supported workers and companies as best as possible. also, thanks to the european level being fast and forceful, we triggered the general escape clause, we gave full flexibility on all the structural funds and full flexibility on state aid. but it is also true that each member state has a different fiscal space, so the use of state aid is also very different from member state to member state. what we are starting to observe now is an unleveling of the playing field in the single market. to all that, we need a european response, and because it is a real european recovery focusing on european priorities, it is essential that the european parliament plays its full role. for me, it goes without saying that this parliament must provide democratic accountability and have its say on the entire recovery package, just as it does on the european budget. that is what we're going to discuss today. so let me dive into the recovery package, which consists of two parts. first of all there will be the european budget, the so-called mff, that is very well known to you. secondly, and on top of the budget, will be a recovery instrument funded through a larger headroom. this headroom fixes the maximum amount of money that the commission can borrow on the capital markets with the guarantees of the member states, so backed by the member states. just as important, the entirety of the money of the recovery instrument will be channelled through the european budget, that is, through european programmes. this is why and i repeat it the european parliament will have the same say on how the recovery money is spent as it does on how the mff is spent. now, where does the recovery money go to? it will be spent across three pillars. the first pillar will focus on supporting member states to recover, to repair, and to come out stronger from this crisis. the bulk of the money will be spent within this first pillar on the new recovery and resilience instrument that is created to fund, in the member states, key public investment and reforms, but they have to be aligned with our european policy. in other words, thus we are paving the way to a climate-neutral, digitalised and resilient europe. this will be done through the european semester. it will be available to all member states, whether they are in the euro area or not. and it will be focused on those parts of the union that have been most affected and where resilience needs are the greatest. this is one part of the first pillar, and the bulk of the money goes there. within this first pillar there is also a second part, and that is the proposal by the commission to top up the cohesion funds. this will be above the usual cohesion envelope within the mff. this top up will be allocated based on the severity of the economic and social impact of the crisis. the second pillar. the second pillar is about kickstarting the economy and helping private investment to get moving again. we already knew before the crisis that we also need major private investment in key sectors and key technologies 5g, artificial intelligence, clean hydrogen, offshore renewable energies, you name it. the only thing this crisis changed is that it has made this need greater than it was before. this is why we will strengthen investeu. we will also create for the first time a new strategic investment facility. this facility will help invest in the key value chains that are crucial for our future resilience and strategic autonomy. we've seen during the crisis how dependent we were on global supply chains, for example in the pharmaceutical sector, so europe must be able to produce critical medicine itself. but for all this, we also need healthy companies in europe to invest in. this is why we will also propose, in this second pillar, a new solvency instrument. this will help match the recapitalization needs of healthy companies which have been put at risk as a result of the lockdown, wherever they are located in the european union. now the third and last pillar. the third pillar is about learning the most immediate lessons of the crisis. over the last month we've seen what is important, what has worked well and what needs to be improved. so we will strengthen programmes that have proven their value in the crisis, such as resceu or such as horizon europe. we will also create a new dedicated health programme, and we will make sure that we can support our partners by strengthening our instruments for neighbourhood development and international cooperation and for pre-accession assistance. honourable members, in a nutshell, this is what the recovery instrument looks like. it will be focused on where there is the greatest needs and the greatest potential. the recovery instrument is shortterm and concentrated on the first years of recovery. it will include grants. it will include the possibility to frontload part of the investment, still this year, using proven financing models based on national guarantees. we should not forget that we're not starting from scratch. the recovery instrument will complement the three important safety nets that were mentioned and agreed by the leaders in april - the sure programme, the financing availability from the european investment bank and the european stability mechanism. together with our mff, this will be the ambitious answer europe needs: a response that includes the new own resources we need in our budget, just as the commission proposed in 2018; a response that reflects our common values with a mechanism to protect the rule of law; a response that is built on necessity but is designed for the future. that means: eine antwort, die aus der krise geboren ist, die aber in die zukunft investieren und dienen muss. this is a response that was born out of the crisis, but must invest and serve the future. it strengthens not only the solidarity between countries and people, but also the solidarity between generations. because, ladies and gentlemen, sooner or later, scientists and researchers will find a vaccine against the coronavirus. but there is no vaccine against climate change, and therefore europe must now invest in a cleaner future. our investments in the reconstruction have their price, and this price is an increasing debt burden. if we have to increase the debt, if we have to raise money for the future of our children, then it is the least we can do to invest that money in their future, to tackle climate change, to reduce the burden of climate change and not just to pack something in. therefore, in the wake of the crisis, we must not fall back on the old pattern. we must not stop at the reconstruction of yesterday's economy, but must now courageously seize the opportunity to build a modern, clean and healthy economy that will secure the livelihood of our next generation and our children. ladies and gentlemen, the european level alone cannot heal the wounds left by this crisis. but we are taking our share of the responsibility by balancing the burdens between the member states today and at the same time ensuring that this enormous effort also be placed on the younger generation. that is our task today. and i am firmly convinced that a europe of the unemployed has grown up. the european union is not a the european union is a great power. the european union is a great example of this.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, normally we are used to immediately start in our political contributions with technical details and political battles. today, i want to speak first about people, their hearts, their courage, their efforts, their fears, and probably also their pain: the nurse in madrid who was infected while helping a patient, the doctor in bergamo who had to decide about life and death in the past weeks, and probably the young researcher in tübingen, who worked day and night trying to find a possible cure to stop this pandemic. i mention these examples to show that the heroes of this crisis are not politicians, managers or media stars. the stars have been the millions of europeans who helped, engaged and took care of all of us. thank you very much, from the bottom of our heart, all of you. no words can ever be enough to thank you for your engagement. now we have to do our job as politicians. now it is our turn. in the epp group, we strongly support the general architecture which is now on the table: to have an ambitious, future—orientated mff – and we add a recovery plan, a recovery fund, which really delivers on the demands of today’s european union. speaking about the architecture of this new mechanism, for us, as the epp, the key element is to fight for a democratic budget, a budget decided by the people represented here in this chamber, a budget based on solidarity among people and nations in the european union, a budget that is honest with the people and a budget that cares for the people. ‘we want to have our sovereignty back’ was one of the main messages in the brexit campaign. i tell you that this successful message reflected on the problem that people don’t feel involved in the european decision—making process. and that’s why it is so important that it is not brussels that decides about the recovery fund, a kind of external power deciding. no: my mep decides about the future of the european union and about the recovery programme. it must be in the hands of those who are elected for this. no budget without democratic legitimacy. that is one of the principles in the european way of life. this promise was given by the european commission and i would say that now is the time to deliver. to the council i want to say that now is not the time for institutional battles in this field. i think it is the time to guarantee, also from a council point of view, a democratic europe as a principle for the future. a second consideration for us, the epp group, is that people don’t care about procedure. they only care about concrete projects and concrete support. in this spirit of the past weeks, a spirit of solidarity among europeans, we also have to focus on the ones who really needs our help the most, the most affected regions, and especially the young generation. i want to put this at the centre of my second point, namely that we have already faced, in the last 12 years, a kind of lost generation in the european union, where millions of young people – well—educated, well-prepared people – had no chance to really succeed in the labour market. and i want to underline that europe cannot again allow us to have a lost generation facing the future of the european union. that’s why the investments are needed. europe has to give the young generation hope. the third aspect i want to underline is to be honest regarding the mff. we have to keep the promises that we gave to the voters last year. there is one aspect, which ursula von der leyen has already rightly underlined, that is about future investments – climate change, the question of stronger investments in research, the digital world, education, the fight against cancer or today against corona – and to do it together as common activities. and we must not forget our regions and farmers. i want to underline this. we must be fair with everybody. today cohesion and agriculture policy is one of the tools where we already show solidarity in today’s european union. that’s why it must be properly financed as well. as a final point, i want to underline that we have to take care of the preparation for future emergency situations we will face in the european union. we cannot promise that we will be able to avoid another pandemic in the future. nobody can do so. but we can make sure that europe is much better prepared for the next pandemic or the next crisis. we need flexibility. we need own resources. we have to create tools for a quick and decisive response if there is an unexpected situation in front of us. after the crisis, we want to see a united europe where all parts of our union will economically recover. after the crisis, we want to see a united europe which invests in future projects and which creates an economic future for our young generation. and, after the crisis, we want to see at a global level a europe that is the first out of the crisis. that is what we want to achieve, and probably this is the schuman moment of our generation, also having your words in mind. we have to be clear on this and we have to be motivated by the courage we saw from the nurses, from the doctors, and from all those who delivered in the last weeks. that is what we should use as an example. let’s act now.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the excellent work he has done and for the excellent report he has presented. we have had very difficult weeks in all the countries. many of our fellow citizens have lost their lives, many of them family members and loved ones; and today millions of people face great fear and uncertainty about the future. it is therefore gratifying that, despite the difficult circumstances, this parliament has been able to continue its work with responsibility. i thank president sassoli, who has made this parliament an example of solidarity, and i thank all the officials in this house. i think we are all aware of our historical responsibility. because when citizens feel helpless and left to their own devices at the worst possible moment, easy recipes, populism, nationalism gain ground, and democracy is the real loser. that's why the decision we have to make in the next few days is important. despite the initial reaction of the council, which seemed to be that the ministers and the heads of government were passing the ball to each other so as not to have to decide, a positive signal was finally given on 23 april, which was understood by all european citizens: a european reconstruction plan with a financial plan to be linked to the multiannual financial framework. it is now up to the commission and, moreover, we demand that the commission be ambitious. tomorrow we will vote on a joint resolution that sends two very clear messages. the first is a message of unity. this parliament is able to overcome ideological and national differences in order to work for a common interest. that is why it is so important that the recovery and transformation fund should be within the financial framework, that is to say, subject to scrutiny by this house; and that is why it is essential that parliament should decide on an equal footing with the council. and the second message is that of ambition. convergence and sustainability must be the objectives that set the course for the reconstruction plan and the resource on how to use that money. it is being asked by society; it is being asked by young people when they tell us not to sacrifice their future by giving up the european green deal and a more sustainable model of society; it is being asked by social media from the wemoveeu initiative. let us listen to those in civil society who want to work with us for a better europe. because europe, ladies and gentlemen, is not ours. europe is not our property and therefore we need all the energies now more than ever. they also ask us not to abandon the weakest. the other major pillar must therefore be the social pillar: a network to protect the most vulnerable and guarantee employment. we cannot afford to give up important initiatives in this regard and we must also invest in a just digital transformation. to finance all these urgent policies, we ask for at least two billion euros. i understand that this is a difficult time to ask member states for money and that is why it is time to raise the own resources ceiling to at least 2%. it's time to get the reconstruction bond issue going. the plan must be based mainly on grants, and loans must allow for long-term maturities and repayment linked to economic recovery. i have heard mrs van der leyen speak about the european semester, and i would like to remind you that our political group will not accept that the european semester is not linked to such important issues as environmental sustainability, social rights and the sustainable development goals. ladies and gentlemen, it is very good to remember the past to learn from it, but it is also important to look to the future. that is why i would like to address the european commission and the council: you have an important responsibility at this moment, and parliament is prepared to support you, to work side by side, to stand shoulder to shoulder, but only if you are willing to be ambitious and to put the common interest ahead of national discourses. ambition, courage and courage: that is what europe needs today.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president michel, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, robert schuman said 70 years ago that europe is built step by step through solidarity in action, not just in words. with the health crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic, we are entering a major economic crisis. the experience of the last 70 years shows that europe has advanced especially when it has had to find solutions to the crises it has had to face. after this crisis, it's not going to be enough to just turn the economy around, in many places it's going to take a profound transformation in the way we relate to resources, but also to technology. we will not be able to return to the economy of the 20th century, but, on the contrary, we will have to build recovery on a new foundation. attention to the environment, digitization, strategic sectors like healthcare will be the core of the reconstruction and economic transformation that we need. we have a duty to propose a rescue plan for the millions of citizens who have lost and are losing their jobs, for the hundreds of thousands of companies in difficulty, for entrepreneurs, for our overburdened health systems, for crisis-hit sectors such as tourism, transport or agriculture. a truly european economic recovery and transformation plan, which must overcome the traditional divisions of east-west, north-south, net contributor or net beneficiary, euro-non-euro and so on. the new european budget, as well as the recovery and transformation plan, must be the result of a democratic act, in which the european parliament elected directly by the citizens must play its role. the union must not just share money, but also bring a common vision, and parliament is the guarantor of the coherence of that vision. we must return quickly to a functioning economy that will work on new parameters, in a european society that must reinvent itself after this crisis. this will only happen with investments whose benefits are seen in the real economy, where people are left without jobs, where companies are now going bankrupt through no fault of their own. our group will oppose any attempt to jeopardise the adequate funding and value-connectedness of the next multiannual budget. firstly, we want a european budget that does not depend solely on the ability to finance national budgets. if so, then it is time to assume own resources for the multiannual budget, which gives stability to the european budget without putting pressure on national budgets. secondly, democracy, individual rights and the rule of law are not negotiable for us. this is a red line for the renew group when we adopt the multiannual budget. europe will not be built with populism and extremism, but with real resources invested in the protection of values, the rule of law and a functioning judiciary. we'll come back together or we'll lose separately. this is the choice we have to make, the choice that i hope has only one answer. for me, the answer is together. let us be brave, on behalf of our citizens, who a year ago went to the polls in record numbers to be represented in a decent, dignified and competent way in the european parliament. now is the time to show that we have courage and that what we promised in the campaign, when we asked citizens to come and trust the european union, we can put into practice, because once again - and i end with this - europe is built on solidarity in action and not just on statements.
in writing. the framework of requirements associated with the response to the consequences of covid-19 is the protection of health, especially of the most vulnerable groups, the protection of the incomes of workers and their families, the defense of employment with rights and the revival of economic activity, which, in the case of countries such as portugal, with high dependence and external subordination, must assume a special focus on productive sectors, reducing dependence and ensuring the solvency of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which face unfair and destructive competition in the single market. these demands call for measures which the eu does not seem to be willing to adopt. they also demand that they face up to and reject the constraints imposed by the eu, especially those associated with the euro. the significant increase in the eu budget that would be needed to ensure its redistributive function and the objective of effective economic and social cohesion does not seem realistically feasible in the current context. the recovery plan proposed by the european commission, which has yet to be put into practice, risks concentrating its resources primarily on the major european powers, which are already the biggest beneficiaries of integration, and on the major economic groups of these powers. in this context, the recovery of sovereignty instruments, particularly in the economic and monetary fields, is a structural necessity.
in writing. for weeks now, citizens and businesses have been asking us for answers to the greatest economic and social crisis our continent has faced since the end of the second world war. we need innovative resources and instruments for a mff and a recovery fund that preserve and revitalise the economic, productive and social fabric of europe: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i regret, however, that at the same time there is still a lack of compromise on many proposals, such as the green deal, or new taxes on businesses are being discussed to raise funds for the new community budget. the challenges we face in the coming months are unprecedented, the situation we are living in is extraordinary, it is time for concrete and real ideas and proposals, not to persevere in ideological battles that will take the eu further and further away from its citizens and closer to the abyss.
in writing. the next mff will play a key role in the post-crisis recovery of our economies. i ask the commission to ensure that both the recovery fund and the seven-year budget can be properly used. crisis management should aim at the principle of geographical balance. both instruments should strengthen eu convergence and provide adequate opportunities for all member states, whether euro-zone or non-euro-zone. the instruments created to overcome a serious economic downturn should be designed and implemented in such a way as to provide real help not only to the western and southern member states but also to the eastern ones. although the virus has reached the cohesion countries later, they are more vulnerable and no new instruments will undermine cohesion policy. the distribution key for the recovery fund shall be fair and equitable and shall not involve any moral hazard. i ask the commission to ensure that there is no reward for irresponsibility or poor performance. it is necessary to avoid that irresponsible farmers, such as those member states with higher debt or deficit, are rewarded for having been less prepared or perhaps poorly managed by the crisis. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the aim should be to provide assistance to each member state according to its needs and merits.
in writing. – i welcome the european council meeting of 23 april 2020 that endorsed the roadmap towards lifting covid-19 containment measures and a joint roadmap for recovery. the meeting also discussed important safety nets for workers and businesses. the european commission has announced it will table a revised proposal for a multiannual financial framework (mff) for the years 2021-2027, together with a recovery instrument targeted at the effects of the covid-19 crisis. i support the european parliament’s call for a strong recovery plan commensurate with the size of the challenge we face, financed by recovery bonds guaranteed by the eu budget, and for an ambitious new mff that both reflects the measures needed to address the crisis and the political priorities of the new commission. as the resolution notes, the recovery plan and the new mff must be aligned in structure and objectives. however, i do not support the resolution’s suggestions for eu own resources that would infringe on irish tax sovereignty.
in writing. in a joint resolution, the epp, s&d, renew, greens and ecr political groups call for the full involvement of the ep in the design, adoption and implementation of the eu recovery plan, as a matter of democratic legitimacy. they also stressed that this recovery plan, to be presented by the ec, should not be financed at the expense of the multiannual financial framework, nor should its long-term priorities be compromised. the mff should be consistent and in no way be compromised by the need for a recovery plan. the ep's consent may be at risk if there is no agreement on the eu's own resources and this is not taken into account in the architecture of the new recovery fund. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. it is also important that it does not impose additional burdens on member states, and reaches the member states most affected by the covid-19 outbreak and in the form of grants or direct support, as the main component of an overall recovery package. only then can we have a europe of solidarity, ready to help the countries in greatest difficulty, based on the principle that no member state can emerge from this crisis on its own. because i am in favour of joint debt issuance, in this case by the ec, and direct support to the member states, which should preferably be in the form of grants and not represent additional public debt, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – seventy years after the schuman declaration, the european union faces its most serious socio—economic challenge, provoked by covid-19. the eu’s gdp is expected to contract by 7.4%, our companies are facing risks of bankruptcy, while our citizens express fears for their future. our collective response to this crisis will determine our people’s trust in the future of our common project. accordingly, i underline the importance of reaching an institutional agreement in due time on the next multiannual financial framework and recovery plan, in order to send a clear and firm message that the european union is capable of delivering in these critical moments and of respecting its political commitments. i find it essential that the european parliament, as the sole eu institution with members directly and democratically elected by eu citizens, play an active role in the shaping, adoption and implementation of the recovery fund, and i express my full disapproval of any european recovery strategy set outside the community procedure. at the same time, allow me to reiterate parliament’s resolutions to reform eu own resources system through the introduction of common consolidated corporate tax base, digital services taxation, a financial transaction tax, emissions trading scheme contributions, a tax on plastics and a carbon border adjustment mechanism.
in writing. the recovery and resolution fund should not impose an additional burden on national coffers. it is clear that not all countries are equally affected by the crisis, and their financial capacity is not equal either. the assistance provided must reach everyone. we therefore need to help them adapt to new conditions, restructure their activities, ensure resilience to future challenges, build capacity, and respond quickly to health systems. we need to restructure our economy and not repeat the mistakes of the past. the crisis showed that agriculture could only provide food for the population because, unlike other sectors, we have not yet developed an agricultural industry in china or india. the strengthening of our farmers must therefore be a priority and this requires the use of this fund. short food chains must become a reality, not a mere declaration, allowing local products to reach consumers' homes. at the same time, we need to review our strategies and ensure that food imported from third countries meets our safety and production standards at all stages of product manufacture, from cultivation to the final product on the market. this will create a level playing field for farmers.
eu funds must also be involved in helping european economies, which poses a major challenge for the updated multiannual financial framework of the union. unfortunately, the majority of this house is pushing some of the issues i have long opposed. this is mainly new own resources, including new taxes. the recovery fund is to be financed beyond the existing mff programmes without first seeking savings. we need a reform of mff spending with an emphasis on greater efficiency and a prioritisation of genuinely growth-oriented programmes with added value for the future, such as horizon or the space programme. the renewal should then focus primarily on digitalisation, as i have repeatedly expressed my scepticism about continuing with the green plan.
the negotiations on a new multiannual financial framework, the eu's large budget, for the years 2021 to 2027 are in a very different situation now than they were a few months ago. it is of course right that the new budgetary framework must take into account the impacts and consequences of the coronavirus pandemic. we need a budget that helps the member states, that is flexible and allows for the use of money without unnecessary red tape. however, we need a budget that is not financed by debt and that does not burden member states with excessive redistribution without much benefit. and unfortunately, the european parliament's proposal does not meet these conditions. first and foremost, there is the effort to create new eurodollars for which the union as a whole will guarantee, to punish those states that have managed responsibly and have built up reserves for the worst times, and to reward those that have spent recklessly. proposals to create new euro banknotes, whether for financial transactions, digital services, plastic products or emissions, will lead to less tax collection at national level, and will make it harder for national governments to finance services and investments for their citizens. and finally, the stubborn insistence on astronomical spending on the new green deal will hurt us budgetarily and economically far more than the current pandemic. i must therefore reject this proposal from the european parliament because it does not help the citizens and will only lead to problems in the future.
the european parliament adopted a resolution at its previous plenary session which paved the way for the european union to embark on a more coordinated and solidary response to the pandemic crisis and its health, economic and social impacts. it's time to move on to a robust implementation. the resolution tabled in this plenary by the majority of the political groups sets out the priorities to be taken into account by the european commission in formulating its proposal for the 2021/2027 multiannual financing plan, to strengthen the own resources in its financing and to define a robust recovery and transformation plan. they should also be taken into account in the assessment of the proposal, when it is presented by the european council. the priority of the european response must be to save people. this is a decisive step towards maintaining the social fabric and recovering businesses and the economy. the european parliament's proposal is balanced, feasible and can benefit all member states and their citizens. i hope that the resolution will be voted overwhelmingly in favour and that the action it will bring will be commensurate with the urgency and the need.
the results of the first round of voting: jury approved. tran is approved. tran is approved. tran is approved. eu-montenegro is approved. eu-serbia has been approved. eu-india approved eu-ukraine agreement concluded. eu-belarus agreement reached eu-belarus agreement reached the iccat convention is approved. qfp is approved. german-swiss cabotage is approved. italian-swiss cabotage is approved. data exchange with the united kingdom rejected. i object to that. amendment no 1: the following is added: part one is approved. amendment no 1, second part, is approved. decisions on the landing: fch approved clean sky is approved. bbi approved eiopa has approved. ecsel approved imi 2 is approved. shift2rail is approved. aea approved it was approved. emsa approved. this is a good idea. gnss is approved. the emcdda has approved it. the easa has approved it. easo approved parliament adopted the commission has approved the approved mediator gepd is approved. court of auditors approved council approved. the commission has approved the cedefop approved the project. efca approved seae approved the following shall be added to the list of approved bodies: etf approved eurojust approved iter is approved. berec approved by the commission. eurofound approved acer approved the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of this regulation. eit approved esa approved fes approved eige approved the eba has approved. the european commission has approved the cepol echa approved ecdc approved efsa approved adopted by the commission on 20 june. fra approved the committee approved the proposal. frontex has been approved. europol is approved. ema has approved. the committee approves the proposal. these are the votes for this afternoon.
we now move on to the second round of voting. we shall be voting on the first block of amendments to the discharge resolutions and also on the final vote on the objection under rule 112 on genetically modified soya. the vote will be taken using the same procedure as in the first round of voting. the second round of voting will be open from 8.00 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the vote will be taken shortly. you have until 9:15 to vote. the results of this second round will be announced at the opening of the plenary session at 9.00 a.m. tomorrow.
we will begin with the announcement of the results of yesterday's second round of voting. first, as regards the objection under article 112: genetically modified soybeans of the variety mon 87708 × mon 89788 × a5547-127. the final vote is taken. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the european parliament for approval. amendment no 1: rejected amendment no 13 was adopted. amendment no 32: accepted by the committee on the environment. amendment no 33 has been adopted. amendment no 42 is rejected. amendment no 43: rejected amendment no 44: adopted amendment no 34 was adopted. amendment no 14 - identical with amendment no 35: adopted amendment no 45 was adopted. amendment no 36 was adopted. amendment no 46 is rejected. amendment no 10 adopted by a large majority. amendment no 11d: rejected amendment no 2: rejected amendment no 15 has been adopted. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the following paragraph is added: the text of the resolution is as follows: paragraph 50: adopted by the commission on 15 june. the following paragraph is added: part 1 - the original text is accepted. part 2 - the text as originally drafted. the following paragraph is added: part 1 - the original text is accepted. part 2 - the text as originally drafted. the commission shall: part 1 - the original text is accepted. part 2 - the text as originally drafted. paragraph 68: adopted by the commission on 16 june. the following paragraph is added: the text of the resolution is as follows: the following paragraph is added: part 1 - the original text is accepted. part 2 - the text as originally drafted. the following paragraphs are added: part 1 - the original text is accepted. part 2 - the text as originally drafted. part 3 - the text as originally drafted. part 4 - adopted by the commission on 14 june. the following paragraph is added: the text of the first part is accepted. part 2 - the text as originally drafted. amendment no 3: rejected the following paragraph is added: the text of the first part is accepted. part two accepted. part three accepted. amendment no 4: rejected amendment no 5: rejected amendment no 16 is rejected. amendment no 7: rejected amendment no 37 was adopted. amendment no 38 was adopted. amendment no 39 was adopted. amendment no 40 was adopted. amendment no 8: rejected amendment no 12 is rejected. amendment no 29 was adopted. amendment no 17 and 49 are identical and that is the end of it. amendment no 41 was adopted. amendment no 25: adopted by a large majority. amendment no 26 was adopted. amendment no 9: rejected amendment no 18 is rejected. amendment no 21: adopted by a large majority. amendment no 53: rejected amendment no 54: adopted amendment no 55 was adopted. amendment no 56: adopted amendment no 57: rejected amendment no 28 was adopted. amendment no 20: rejected then we come to the discharge 2018: eu general budget commission and executive agencies. amendment no 20 (d): rejected by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. amendment no 38 (part one) is rejected. part two accepted. amendment no 1: rejected amendment no 39 is rejected. amendment no 21: rejected amendment no 24: adopted by a large majority. amendment no 17 was adopted. amendment no 40 was adopted. amendment no 41 was adopted. amendment no 42 is rejected. amendment no 46 was adopted. amendment no 25 was adopted. amendment no 26 was adopted. the following paragraphs are added: the text of the resolution is as follows: amendment no 2: rejected amendment no 3: rejected amendments nos 4d, 27d and 43d are rejected. amendment no 5: rejected amendment no 6 was adopted. amendment no 28 was adopted. amendment no 44 (part i) was adopted. part two: rejected. amendment no 7d: rejected amendment no 8: rejected amendment no 9: rejected ladies and gentlemen, we have it now at 9:09. the vote will take place at 9.30 a.m. i shall take the liberty of starting the debate now, if you have no objections. and between two speeches, which will be at 9.30 a.m., i will allow myself to interrupt them briefly in order to open the voting as announced. is there any objection? that's not the case.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on emergency legislation in hungary and its impact on the rule of law and fundamental rights (2020/2620 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to begin by underlining that the rule of law plays a crucial role in all our democracies. as recalled by the european union’s strategic agenda for 2019-2024, rule of law is a key guarantee that our common values are well protected and complied with. croatia’s presidency programme also puts the focus on further establishing the union as an area of freedom, security and justice, founded on common values, democracy and rule of law. this is even more essential in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. unprecedented circumstances have led many member states to adopt far-reaching measures, which have been key to acting rapidly and effectively to protect the public health of citizens. however, some of the measures do have a significant impact on fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is therefore essential that they are necessary, that they are proportionate to the objective, limited in time, subject to regular scrutiny and respects fundamental rights and the rule of law. the european commission president reaffirmed these principles in a statement on 31 march, and they were subsequently supported in statements by a significant number of states. the article 7 procedure, concerning hungary, was on the agenda of the general affairs council of 25 march 2020. however, due to the covid-19 emergency, that meeting had to be cancelled. unfortunately, this is not over for the time being, and it is not possible to hold formal council meetings. instead, informal meetings of ministers are arranged through videoconference calls to allow the exchange of information and to discuss urgent information. the croatian presidency believes it is important to facilitate the dialogue and exchange of best practices. in that regard, we organised an informal videoconference of ministers of justice on 6 april 2020, which addressed the impact of extraordinary measures on our justice system. support was expressed by the commission’s initiative to monitor the extraordinary measures and their application across the union on an equal basis for all member states. we are well aware of the european parliament’s resolution of 17 april 2020, which also echoed these essential elements. on 22 april, emergency measures adopted during the covid-19 crisis were discussed at an informal meeting through a videoconference of european affairs ministers. once more, a broad majority of member states supported that approach that i’ve just highlighted. the european commission is closely monitoring the measures adopted by the member states, including hungary, and their compatibility with all the mentioned principles. we welcome the commission’s extensive and continued monitoring of the application of emergency measures adopted by all member states. we are also confident that all governments will withdraw emergency measures as soon as positive developments in the covid-19 pandemic makes this possible. we trust that all hungarian institutions will fully and rapidly cooperate with the eu institutions, and we all have a joint responsibility to ensure that the rule of law and fundamental rights remain the cornerstones of our common project. this is even more true during these difficult times if the union is to emerge from the covid-19 crisis even stronger.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, in these challenging times, the commission stands in solidarity with all the citizens of europe and fully supports all the member states in their fight against the pandemic. as president von der leyen said, we need to ensure that europe does everything it can to save every life it can. at the same time, the commission has made clear from the outset that the response to this crisis must fully respect our fundamental principles and values as set out in our treaties. the commitment of all eu institutions and member states to upholding the rule of law and fundamental rights is essential. emergency measures adopted and implemented by member states must be limited to what is necessary and strictly proportionate. they must not last indefinitely. moreover, governments must make sure that such measures are subject to regular scrutiny, fully respecting democratic checks and balances. the emergency measures cannot mean switching off constitutions or eu law. this is why the commission is proactively monitoring the emergency measures for all member states, including hungary. we are looking in particular at how the emergency measures are being used in practice and what their impact is, in particular on the rule of law, on fundamental rights and on eu law. firstly, as regards the impact on the rule of law, situations which require close attention are those where the state of emergency does not have a predefined duration, where its duration is considerably long, where parliaments do not have the possibility to terminate such state of emergency, where the powers granted to the government are open—ended or where judicial review or other national checks and balances are restricted. secondly, the impact on fundamental rights. the angle here is to closely scrutinise the impact of limitations in practice, whether the standards imposed by international obligations and relevant guidance are being maintained, and what limitations might go beyond what is strictly proportionate. and thirdly, the impact on eu law. we are checking whether the measures adopted under the emergency arrangements comply with eu law or whether they lead to possible disapplication of national laws implementing eu law. as stressed by commission president von der leyen in her letter of 7 april to president sassoli in this context, the case of hungary raises particular concerns. in the case of hungary, the emergency powers granted appear more extensive than in other member states, considering the combined effect of broadly defined powers and the absence of a clear time limit. the criminalisation of stating or spreading false information related to the crisis is not clearly defined and is accompanied by strict sanctions. this raises potential concerns as regards legal certainty and may have a chilling effect on freedom of expression. these particular concerns come in a well—known context in hungary as regards rule of law and respect for eu values. the commission is, therefore, monitoring very closely the use of emergency powers in hungary. allow me to be more specific as regards the situation of media. now it is more important than ever to pursue measures that are effective in curbing the spread of disinformation but do not limit free speech. the fight against disinformation should not and may not reduce our democratic values, including the possibility to have a fair democratic debate where different voices can be heard. in hungary, the environment in which media and journalists operate has been deteriorating for a number of years. organisations and associations representing civil society and journalists have been sounding warnings about the situation. these warnings grew louder following the adoption by hungary of the provision criminalising the spreading of disinformation relating to covid—19. especially in moments like this, we need reliable journalism, employing professional standards to provide accurate information and to scrutinise the measures taken in response to the global health threat. journalists should be able to work freely, have access to information, ask questions. their job is to hold us politicians to account for our actions. in the eu, we are now entering a new phase where certain measures taken to protect public health will be gradually relaxed. this new phase means that the general states of emergency, with exceptional powers granted to governments, should gradually be removed or replaced by more targeted and less intrusive measures. for that reason, the commission will be very vigilant on how emergency measures, which affect the rule of law, fundamental rights and democratic values, are phased out in the member states. this is even more important for hungary, given the lack of a clear time limit for the state of danger. i expect, first of all, that the hungarian people will be the ones who will want to return to enjoying their rights in full. i also expect the hungarian national parliament to exercise its scrutiny role. civil society, free and independent media, regular scrutiny and national checks and balances are essential for overseeing the government’s exercise of power. we can only face up to the challenges stemming from this crisis by bringing our societies and democracies together in a spirit of understanding and good cooperation. the commission is considering how to reflect as relevant the situation of the emergency measures in member states in upcoming policy documents such as the rule of law report, the european democracy action plan and the renewed fundamental rights strategy, all due for adoption by the end of this year. honourable members, i look forward to hearing your views on this matter.
i would like to repeat the president's remark yesterday that there is a mask requirement here in the plenary and that you can take off the mask for your speaking time. then spare the waiters the trouble of visiting each one.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i have to go. madam vice president, ladies and gentlemen, as the coronavirus situation nears its end, it's clear that we need to stand together now to protect people's health and boost the economy. this requires a genuine european cohesion in order for europe to remain relevant on the global stage. the european parliament should be the first to help with this. but it seems there are factions on the left-liberal side that simply cannot afford not to attack hungary again and again on a monthly basis. it is much easier to organise empty ideological debates than to talk about the substance and the facts and deal with what really concerns and interests people in the member states. that is why hungary is back on the agenda today in a debate where the organisers knew in advance that ninety percent of the members of the european parliament would not be able to attend and express their opinions. the hungarian government's participation was not helped by the president of the european parliament, despite the fact that the rules of procedure did not prevent it, and online participation was completely excluded, while the leaders of the socialist and liberal factions were allowed to speak on the boards at the april plenary session. why is this not possible for the hungarian government? and the commission has not found any violation of the law in relation to the enabling legislation, so this debate for me is simply a mockery of european values and fundamental legal principles and a reminder of the old conceptual lawsuits. unfortunately, no one here cares about the facts or the arguments.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, last week the ngo freedom house concluded that hungary cannot be described as a democracy. ladies and gentlemen, this is an unprecedented event: that a country in the european union has ceased to be a full democracy. sadly, in 2005, this same ngo ranked hungary as one of the most promising new democracies in europe. and despite the gravity of the situation, the union has not taken any concrete action to punish the orbán government for its actions. and so, he grows up in an endless escalation to centralize power, interfere in the electoral system, control the media, education, culture, harass organized civil society. ladies and gentlemen, this is shameful: an attack on the fundamental values of our union and a devastating attack on our international reputation. furthermore, during the pandemic, cases of gender-based violence have increased alarmingly in hungary and, far from helping, fidesz presents a statement in parliament not to ratify the istanbul convention, so that harassers, so that those who are exercising such violence are not punished. this can't go on. what is the council waiting for? what is the commission waiting for? it's time to wake up and react against what's happening. we have built this union to preserve democracy, to preserve fundamental values, and it is totally unacceptable that this is happening. ladies and gentlemen, silence is complicity and that is why i urge the council to start talks immediately to activate article 7 of the teu. and finally, i also urge our colleagues in the european people's party to stop protecting orbán and to expel fidesz from their political family. how many more letters, how many more excuses do you need to receive from orbán to see that he is mocking you? he's mocking you! and make no mistake: we are not attacking hungary, we are attacking those who are making democracy disappear in a european country. keep in mind that these friendships are not for you at all. turn your backs.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, what is happening right now in hungary and what orbán is doing is not only grounds, dear commissioner, for concern; it is a reason for starting infringement procedures. it is literally about hungary’s exit, in law, from the european union and from european values. it is happening right now. this is not only my opinion, it is the opinion of 57% of hungarian citizens, who in a recent poll said that what orbán is doing is finishing off basically what he started. mr orbán should have been here in the room to answer some questions today, but he said he was busy fighting the pandemic. well, may i ask him, what is the connection between pandemics and rejection of the istanbul convention? does violence against women help him fight pandemics? are there any special fighting tactics that we have to learn? what is the connection between this and the indefinite state of emergency and fully silencing civil society and the independent media and criminalising independent journalists. and how about arresting people? how is he fighting the pandemic by arresting people who criticise the hungarian government? i’m really sorry, commissioner and dear colleagues, but this government should not receive one single cent, not one penny, from the eu, any longer – not today, not in the future mff, not ever – until they follow rules and values. yes, the hungarian people should receive this money – civil society, businesses, communities – but directly from the commission and directly managed by the commission, not this government and not orbán, until they leave and until they let hungary breathe.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. let us be clear that the debate on the rule of law in hungary today is not justified by any new developments. the false news that flooded europe about the hungarian situation was one by one refuted. for example, the hungarian parliament does not meet, but it does meet, passes laws. we know that since his election in 2010, the european left has been attacking viktor orbán. hungarian citizens have since voted in seven national elections to trust him and fidesz. so it's clear that the brussels witch hunt is not going to win an election. but by allowing debates to be the subject of attacks that turn out to be false, the european parliament loses its own credibility with its citizens. or we could have a one-hour debate on the rule of law in every member state. we could start right away with romania, where president johannis last week made the point that extending minority rights is essentially treason. his words also violate the spirit of the romanian constitution and the rule of law. why are there no voices of concern on this issue?
in writing. – contact tracing apps are one of the novel digital techniques we can deploy to manage the spread of the pandemic. we should, however, keep in mind that smartphone contact-tracing is just one element of the measures such as social distancing, masks and testing that we must put in place to slow the spread of the virus. there are several preconditions for such apps to be effective. most importantly, they must be able to rely upon a robust testing and diagnosing infrastructure, otherwise we would not have the data to feed in the network. the second question is how to reach the 60% participation of the local populations in the contact-tracing network that is needed for the app to be effective. while we should strive to reach this figure, the approach we should take is not to make the use of apps mandatory, but to build the trust of people to use the app through solid data-protection. third, in order to be effective in the whole of the eu, national apps should be inter-operable across borders. interoperable national systems could be extremely important for relaxing confinement measures, the gradual lifting of border controls and the restoration of freedom of movement.
in writing. the spread of the coronavirus pandemic appears to be slowing down, thanks to the sacrifices made by european citizens and the appropriate measures taken by member state governments. but to finally defeat the pandemic, we also need scientific breakthroughs in the development of targeted vaccines and therapies. it is important that vaccines and treatments are made available to everyone, because we can only overcome this crisis if we work together. cooperation is needed at both eu and global level to find the right vaccine. i consider the 'global action against coronavirus' donors' event initiated by the commission to be an important step, with the €7.4 billion of donations raised providing a solid foundation for funding relevant research. however, further and increased support is needed to improve the performance of eu research and development. similar thinking and action are needed to develop targeted therapy. i welcome the successful completion of the first round of applications for the innovative medicines research initiative. support public and private sector expertise and resources in the fight against the virus by providing additional financial means. finally, good practices in the member states should be taken into account. a good example is hungary, where innovative blood plasma and drug therapy developed by a national scientific consortium can save lives. in order to ensure universal access to vaccine, hungary has initiated the establishment of the national vaccine factory.
in writing. since the onset of the health crisis, it has become clear that no country can fight the pandemic alone. containment measures have so far proved effective in slowing the spread of the virus, but they will not eradicate it. this requires further coordinated action in three areas: early diagnosis; targeted treatment for those who are sick; and a vaccine to ensure immunisation. the work of states and eu institutions needs to be coordinated to find an effective vaccine and treatment to tackle the coronavirus. in addition, we must not only join forces with the states and the european institutions, but also with the private and public sectors. the international donors' conference organised by the commission was a good example, with over €7.4 billion raised. we need to send a strong message about the need for a future vaccine that is universal, free, fair, equitable and fast. at european level, the joint procurement mechanism is the tool to ensure this. finally, the eu must take the lead globally in ensuring universal and free access to the vaccine and future treatments. the vaccine cannot be a new source of inequality.
i therefore announce the results of the second round of voting, which are as follows: the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the criteria and arrangements necessary for the implementation of this decision. fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking 2 - approved the clean sky 2 joint undertaking is approved. the bioindustries joint undertaking was approved. european insurance and occupational pensions authority - approved the ecsel joint undertaking is approved. the joint undertaking for innovative medicines initiative 2 - approved the shift2rail joint undertaking is approved. the european environment agency - approved agency of the european union for railways - approved. the european maritime safety agency - approved by the council. the european gnss agency - approved european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction - approved the european union has also adopted a number of measures to combat air pollution. european asylum support office - approved parliament - approved court of justice - approved. the ombudsman - approved. the european data protection supervisor - approved by the commission. court of auditors - approved. translation centre for the bodies of the european union - approved. european council and council - approved. the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) - has been approved. european centre for the development of vocational training - approved. european fisheries control agency - approved by the commission. european external action service - approved by the council. the sesar joint undertaking is approved. european training foundation - approved eurojust - approved european joint undertaking for the iter project and the development of fusion energy - approved. the support agency for berec - approved. european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions - approved. agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators - approved. the european union agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) - approved. european institute of innovation and technology - approved euratom supply agency - approved the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds - approved. european institute for gender equality - approved european securities and markets authority - approved european banking authority - approved european union agency for the training of law enforcement officers - approved. european agency for safety and health at work - approved. european chemicals agency - approved european centre for the prevention and control of diseases - approved the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. commission and executive agencies - approved. the european union agency for fundamental rights - approved. committee of the regions - approved. european border and coast guard agency - approved the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) - approved european medicines agency - approved the committee of the regions performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies - approved. we now turn to the results on the estimated state of parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021: amendment 11: rejected amendment 2: rejected amendment 3: rejected paragraph 10: approved paragraph 11: original text: approved amendment 4: rejected amendment 5: rejected amendment 6: rejected amendment 7: rejected amendment 8: rejected paragraph 30: original text: approved amendment 9: rejected amendment 1: rejected paragraph 40: original text: approved amendment 10: rejected amendment 12: approved finally, temporary measures concerning general meetings of european companies (se) and european cooperative societies (sce): the approval procedure is approved.
we now move on to the third round of voting. we will vote on amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the new mff, own resources and the recovery plan and on the final vote on the estimated revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021 section i european parliament. the third round of voting will be open from 5.30 p.m. to 6.45 p.m. you have until 6.45 p.m. to vote. the results of the third round of voting will be announced at 9 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.24 p.m.)
the results of the third round of voting today are as follows: parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2021: adopted. amendments to the joint motion for a resolution on the new mff, own resources and the recovery plan: amendment 1: rejectedamendment 2: rejectedamendment 3: rejectedparagraph 9, original text: approvedparagraph 10, original text: approvedparagraph 11, original text: approvedparagraph 12 in two parts: part one: approved part two: paragraph 16 is approved in two parts: part one: approved part two: paragraph 22 is approved in two parts: part one: approved; part two: approved amendment no 4: rejected
we now come to the first round of voting. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and on the environment in the member states, in particular by taking into account the impact of the proposed amendments on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and on the environment in the member states. the vote will take place in accordance with the same procedure as on the previous two days. the first round of voting will be open from 9.30 a.m. to 10.45 a.m. all votes today are by name. members can see their votes and the results of the votes in the document published today on the plenary session website. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. you can vote until 10.45. the results will be announced at 1:15 p.m. the meeting is adjourned.
i'm afraid i'm gonna have to reopen this meeting. i was flipping through too quickly and i flipped over a page. i would like to inform you of the decisions of the agri and pech committees on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71 (1), announced at the opening of the meeting on wednesday 13 may 2020: i have received a request from the greens/efa group and several members, pursuant to rule 71 (2), to vote on the decision of the agri committee to open negotiations in parliament. the vote will take place at 2.15 p.m. today. i have not received a request for a vote in parliament on the pech committee's decision to open negotiations. the committee may therefore enter into negotiations. i beg your indulgence.
mr president, i just want to explain why we are objecting to the mandate for direct negotiations for cap reform. we do understand very well that the cap does of course need to be prolonged and that we need to assure certainty for farmers. however, the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) has decided that they are prolonging it, instead of for one year, for two years. that makes this a decision about a value in money of eur 100 billion. that decision has been taken in the agri committee. we as greens think that deserves a plenary discussion, so that’s what we’re voting on. we’re not voting against the extension. we are voting against the mandate for direct negotiations. we want to negotiate the mandate here in this plenary because a decision on eur 100 billion should be a debate here in plenary. that’s what we’re voting on and that’s why we are asking all our colleagues to vote against the mandate so that we can have a plenary debate on this issue. that will take place in june, well in time before the decisions will be taken, and i hope on the understanding of my colleagues that they will support this objection so we can vote for a full plenary mandate. the rapporteur said in an email that we need a strong and clear mandate. well, i can assure you that the strongest mandate you can get is by a plenary mandate. let’s ensure a plenary mandate in june and, for that, we need to vote against a direct mandate for only the agri committee.
thank you very much, mr eickhout, for the explanations. i hope you can at least understand my mistake, that i skipped over this and therefore you could not bring your important issue right up. but i'm assuming that wasn't a serious procedural error. (the sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m.)
here are the results of the first round of voting today. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the mediterranean, the mediterranean countries and the countries of central and eastern europe. voters: 693; in favour of: the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments. it's approved the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. amendment no 1 rejected; amendment no 2 rejected; amendment no 3 rejected. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept amendment no 1 or amendment no 3? the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport is operating in a profitable market. amendment no 28 rejected; amendment no 7 also rejected; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. amendments nos 4, 12, 18 and 24 were adopted; amendments nos 5, 13, 19 and 25 were adopted; amendments nos 6, 14, 20, 26 and 8 were adopted; amendments nos 8 and 27 were adopted. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of third countries from which the union has withdrawn its authorisation for the placing on the market of products of animal origin and from which the union has withdrawn its authorisation for the placing on the market of products of animal origin and from which the union has withdrawn its authorisation for the placing on the market of products of animal origin and from which the union has withdrawn its authorisation for the placing on the market of products of animal origin. amendments nos 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 were adopted; amendments nos 1, 7 were rejected; amendment no 3 was rejected. amendments nos 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 were adopted; amendments nos 2 and 8 are rejected. the commission notes that the port infrastructure is not used for the provision of public services. amendment no 1 rejected; amendment no 16 rejected; amendments nos 3, 5, 9, 11 accepted; amendment no 12 rejected; amendment no 6 rejected; amendment no 13 rejected; amendment no 7 rejected; amendment no 14 rejected; amendment no 17 rejected; amendment no 2, 4, 8, 10, 15 accepted; amendment no 6 rejected; amendment no 7 rejected; amendment no 14 rejected; amendment no 17 rejected; amendment no 2 accepted; amendment no 4 accepted; amendment no 5 accepted; amendment no 6 rejected; amendment no 13 rejected; amendment no 7 was rejected; amendment no 17 was rejected; amendment no 2 was rejected; amendment no 4 accepted; amendment no 8 was rejected; amendment no 10 accepted; amendment no 7 was rejected; amendment no 14 accepted; amendment no 17 rejected; amendment no 17 accepted. fourth railway package: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of the union institutions and bodies referred to in article 1 by adding the following: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. these were the results of the voting. (the sitting was suspended at 1.26 p.m.)
we are now in the second round of voting today. we vote on the decision of the agri committee on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations on transitional rules for support from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) in 2021 (com ((2019) 0581 c9-0162/2019 2019/0254 ((cod)). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. we are voting on a request from the greens/efa group. their representative gave the reasons this morning. before the vote, only one speaker may speak in favour of the decision of the committee to open negotiations and one speaker against that decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also speaking on behalf of mrs katainen, the rapporteur on this dossier. i am a little bit sick of the way in which the farmers are being played at political games. the same members who almost two weeks ago unanimously adopted this proposal in committee without opposition or abstention are now trying to drag this dossier, which must be dealt with with with great urgency. but it seems that here, thank god, there is a coalition of the reasonable and decent who have recognized what to do in these difficult times, and there are those who persist in their ideologies despite corona. we're talking about the sector that is currently in crisis, ensuring that we all have enough food on the table, and that's despite the fact that we're currently in the worst health and economic crisis since world war ii. agriculture is affected by severe market distortions. on the one hand, we need bold market interventions, and on the other hand, our farmers need reliability - which is what we can achieve with the text to be voted on today. i think it is bureaucratically absurd to call for a mini-reform of the cap here and then present the next changes to the farmers in perhaps two years' time. let it be good! we have already been negotiating the new agricultural policy for some time. you can put your arguments in there. what we need now is legal certainty, planning certainty for our agriculture for the next one to two years. i therefore appeal to you to vote in favour of the text proposed here and in favour of extending the current legal framework. what will be in the new cap we can then discuss in the ongoing negotiations. we must not abandon agriculture here. our farmers will thank us.
we shall then vote on it. the commission will also be consulted on the draft budget for the period from 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020 and on the draft budget for the period from 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020 and on the draft budget for the period from 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020 (com (202) 017). the vote will take place in accordance with the same procedure as this morning. the second round of voting will take place from 2.15 to 3.30 p.m. the vote will now be taken. you can vote until 3.30 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.19 p.m.)
i am not going to go into detail. the renew europe group has sent the president decisions on the change of names for a committee. the decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the day of their publication. the results of the second round of voting today are: the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this decision. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of passengers and the number of flights. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the temporary measures relating to the validity of certificates and licences (multiple measures) [com (2020) 0176 - c9-0126/2020- 2020/0068 (cod) ]. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted the draft amending budget for the financial year 2012 (com (2013) 0173). the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the decision of the committee on agriculture and rural development to open interinstitutional negotiations was adopted here, that is to say, the decision was confirmed at the request of a group, and the negotiators can therefore enter into negotiations on behalf of the committee or the whole house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the minutes of the sitting of 13 may, 14 may and 15 may will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at this week's partsession of parliament to the persons and bodies named in those resolutions.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 15 may 2020.
i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that spaak 3c050 is fully connected to the chamber, so that members who cannot find a seat in the chamber can participate fully in the proceedings and thus ensure the right distance between them. members whose names appear on the list of speakers are invited to take their seats in the chamber, where they will find a card bearing their names in the place allocated to them. members who are not on the list of speakers will be guided by ushers to other available seats. i'd like to inform you that a register of attendance is connected in both halls. i would also remind you that the use of masks covering the mouth and nose is compulsory, but speakers who prefer to participate in the debate without the mask will be allowed to do so for the duration of the speech only.
the agenda includes the debate on the council and commission statements on the eu's european economic recovery plan (2020/2659 ((rsp)) i would like to greet president von der leyen, who is in the chamber with the whole college of commissioners, and thank them for their presence.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say a few words on the eu recovery package submitted by the commission today. this is still very fresh and the delegations are studying it as we meet. you will therefore understand that i am not in a position to address the substance of the proposals. there will be other occasions for that. at this stage, i would like to recall the delegations’ expectations and tell you how the presidency intends to take the work forward. first, i will start with the expectations. at the end of april, leaders agreed to work towards establishing a recovery fund, and i quote, ‘which is needed and urgent’. their expectation is that this fund should be of sufficient magnitude and targeted toward the sectors and geographical parts of europe most affected and be dedicated to dealing with this unprecedented crisis. the commission was therefore tasked with analysing the exact needs and to urgently come up with a proposal that is commensurate with the challenge we are facing. the commission was expected to clarify the link with the mff, which, according to the leaders, will need to be adjusted to deal with the current crisis and its consequences. as a response to this tasking, the commission prepared a comprehensive package of horizontal proposals, which is presented today. the political guidance was clear. delegations will assess the package in this light, and work on the details starts now. turning now to how the presidency intends to organise the work, the key word is urgency. last month the leaders emphasised their commitment to reaching an agreement as soon as possible. we all know that time is running out, and we need to move ahead as fast as possible. our economies require it; our citizens expect it. it is therefore the presidency’s responsibility to take work forward on the commission’s proposal without delay. in line with that, the ministers of european affairs held a discussion on the comprehensive economical and social recovery of the eu, including an adjusted mff and a recovery instrument, at an informal video conference yesterday. furthermore, we put this as a topic on the agenda of coreper for a first discussion immediately after the presentation of this package today. technical work will also be required to understand the proposals before leaders can have a meaningful discussion. to that end, we will mobilise the council at all levels, both physically and with help from technology. throughout, we will be attentive to the parliament’s views. in this spirit, we reviewed carefully the resolution you adopted at the last plenary on the new mff, own resources and recovery plan. as mentioned on that occasion, continuous cooperation between the council and the european parliament will be an essential part of the process, either at horizontal level or at sectorial level. i take this occasion to remind you that, beyond the mmf agreement, there are dozens of other negotiations. they concern programmes that turn eu support into actions on the ground. there too, time is of the essence. we have to make as much progress as possible at sectorial level. we need to make the most of the time available now. we owe it to all the future beneficiaries of these programmes, including students, small businesses, local authorities and others. now more than ever, they will need our support to get their projects off the ground. this will help the recovery of our economies, our regions and our cities, and we look forward to working with you to meet these expectations.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is a story of generations and each european generation has its own story. for the founding generation of our union, history was about building lasting peace where there was nothing but pain, suffering and destruction. for the next generation, it was about pursuing prosperity and freedom, choosing the unity of our internal market and our single currency. secondly, we have been working to bring our european family together by taking our brothers and sisters out of the cold and welcoming them back to their homes here in the heart of our union. all these generations and all these historical successes have been built on those before them and have inspired those after them. and the choice has always been either to take the path of least resistance alone or to go forward together, with a vision, ambition and in the same direction. in these decisive moments, we have always chosen to take the leap forward together, because for europe the most audacious measures will always be the safest. this is what has enabled us to build a union of peace and prosperity unlike any other, unprecedented in the world. honourable members, today we face our very own defining moment. what started with a virus so small your eyes couldn't see it has become an economic crisis so big that you simply cannot miss it. our unique model, built over 70 years, is being challenged like never before in our lifetime or our union's history. the common european goods we have built together are being damaged. things we take for granted are being questioned. there's the single market that needs to recover. there's the playing field that needs to be made even again. there are four freedoms that need to be fully restored. the crisis has huge externalities and spill-overs across all countries and cannot be fixed by any single country alone. a bankrupt company in one member state is a reliable supplier gone for business in another. a struggling economy in one part of europe weakens a strong economy in another part. this is about all of us, and it is way bigger than any of us. this is europe's moment. we see the economic, fiscal and social fallout across all member states. divergences and disparities widen. complex issues of sovereignty and burden-sharing have to be balanced. and so, before us once again is that same binary choice: we either all go it alone, leaving countries, regions and people behind and accepting a union of haves and have-nots, or we walk that road together. we take that leap forward. we pave a strong path for our people and for the next generation. and for me the choice is simple. i want us to take a new, bold step together. europe is in a unique position to be able to invest in a collective recovery and a common future. in our union, people, business and companies depend and rely on each other. in our union, cohesion, convergence and investment are good for all. and in our union, we know that the boldest measures are truly the safest for the future. this is why the commission is today proposing a new recovery instrument called nextgenerationeu, worth eur 750 billion. it will sit on top of a revamped long-term eu budget of eur 1.1 trillion. nextgenerationeu, together with a core multiannual financial framework (mff), amounts to eur 1.85 trillion in today's proposal. it goes alongside the three safety nets of eur 540 billion already agreed by parliament and council. in sum, this would bring our recovery effort to a total of eur 2.4 trillion. honourable members, allow me to explain how next generation eu will work. the money will be raised by temporarily lifting the own resources ceiling to allow the commission to use its very strong credit rating to borrow money on the financial markets. this is an urgent and exceptional necessity for an urgent and exceptional crisis. nextgenerationeu will invest in repairing our social fabric, protect our single market and help rebalance balance sheets across europe. and while we're doing this, we need to press fast forward towards a green, digital and resilient future, because this is the future of europe's next generation - this generation that is globally connected and feels responsible for our world, our planet, with a clear vision to promote human dignity and the rule of law, determined to hold governments more accountable for fighting climate change and saving our nature, driven by the idealism for europe and the belief that our union must strive for better. so beyond showing solidarity to overcome the crisis of today, i want to propose a new generational pact for tomorrow. yes, the effects of this crisis mean that we need to make investments on an unprecedented scale today, but we will do it in a way that europe's next generation will reap the benefits tomorrow - investments that will not only preserve the outstanding achievements of the last 70 years but will ensure that our union is climate neutral, digital, social and a strong global player also in the future. to make this happen, nextgenerationeu will direct its massive financial power to invest in our common priorities through european programmes. i am always keen to ensure that this house has its full say on crucial decisions of our union. my proposal to invest these funds via programmes in our european budget achieves exactly that. nextgenerationeu will restore and rebuild our single market, that great generator of innovation, prosperity and opportunity. all member states need to invest in technologies that will spark the recovery through new innovation and clean industries. nextgenerationeu strengthens the european green deal and horizon europe and will invest in key infrastructure, from 5g to housing renovation. at the same time, we must ensure that the transition to a climate-neutral economy leaves no one behind. nextgenerationeu will therefore multiply the funding for the just transition fund. in the same vein, no member state should have to choose between responding to the crisis or investing in our people. therefore, nextgenerationeu increases erasmus and youth employment support. it makes sure that people get the skills and the training and the education they need to adapt to this rapidly changing world. nextgenerationeu will help those perfectly healthy companies that have made the right decisions and investment over decades but that find themselves at risk now because competitors in other member states have better access to public or private money to get fresh capital. it will invest in key european industries and technologies to make crucial supply chains more resilient. it will ensure europe remains cutting-edge in key areas like artificial intelligence, precision farming or green engineering. and nextgenerationeu will help make our health systems more resilient for future crises. this investment will be a new european common good. it will show the true and tangible value of being part of the union. and it will be owned by all of us. in total, the commission will raise eur 750 billion for nextgenerationeu. of that total, eur 500 billion will be distributed in grants and eur 250 billion in loans passed on to member states. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. let me be clear: these grants are a joint investment in our future. they have nothing to do with the debts of the member states in the past. the subsidies go through the european budget, and this limits the payment of each country to a fixed key. the subsidies are clearly investments in our european priorities: the strengthening of our internal markets, digitalisation, the european green deal, resilience. the european budget has always been made up of zuschüssen. this is nothing new. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the granting of aid for the construction of a new railway line in the south of the country. our european union is living proof that it works. the european union is responsible for the competitiveness, prosperity and standard of living of each member state. these investments over the european budget have paid off in many ways for everyone. and so is nextgenerationeu for some of us. we are investing together in europe's future and counting the total sum according to a well-known and proven key to future budgets. and additionally the commission will propose a new, own-initiative source. these could for example be based on the planned expansion of emissions trading or on a co2 border tax, which acts as an compensation mechanism against the import of cheaper climate-damaging products from abroad, and/or on a new digital tax, so that where billions of profits are made, there is also a contribution to the common good. yesterday we must be ambitious, and today i count on your full support. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. now is the time to make the right decision. those who today shy away from silent investment, i say, that tomorrow the costs of non-trading in this crisis will be much more expensive to bear. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. that's why we have to be careful. let us instead rediscover the strength of this great idea of a common europe! the crisis, which we must now overcome, is serious. but just as great is the opportunity for europe and our responsibility in this situation to do the right thing. we can now lay the foundations for a union that is climate neutral, digital, more robust and social, and better positioned than ever before. seventy years ago our founding fathers and mothers took the first bold step towards creating a union of peace and prosperity. today is the moment, the chapter of our generation, to add another bold step to the path towards a sustainable union. we are the next generation to blame. the european union is not a (beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, madam president, dear colleagues, solidarity is back. european solidarity is back. the spirit of robert schuman is back. european flags burned a few weeks ago on the streets in italy, for example. millions of people inside of the european union are still concerned, even afraid, about the future, about their jobs, about their families. and europe is giving today a strong answer: you are not alone. we together will pick up the challenge and give a good answer with a fundament of solidarity. we open even a new chapter for the european union. some call it a hamilton moment – the current situation. frankly speaking, as an epp politician, i don’t like it, because i don’t want to see europe based on making debts, on borrowing money – that is not my dream about europe. but having the situation in mind, the economic crisis in mind, in the middle of the biggest economic crisis since the second world war, we see no alternative but to invest now, to give our economy a new boost. and the key question for us is not, first of all, how massive the investment must be - how much money do we spend? that is not the first question for us. the first question is: what is it for? and one of our principles is (and that is guaranteed now) with the proposal: we guarantee that we are not having fresh money for the old problems of the continent. we have to guarantee that we use fresh money for the new ideas for the fresh future for this continent. another element, which was crucial for us in the debates and the preparatory process was the democratic procedures, and i thank the commission president for the clear statement. now we have to go to the council and also clarify with the council that the principle that no money can be spent at european level without the approval of the european parliament is also guaranteed from the council side. the proposal is now on the table and we have still to argue, to convince. 27 member states’ parliaments are needed to support this general idea, and it’s funny to see that in my camp, in the epp, we have one government, we have two socialist governments, we have one liberal government – the netherlands – and even the greens are part of the problem this time, because in all three of their governings – so it’s really good to see that all of us have the same challenge now to convince the others to support the general idea that is still in front of us. and to the frugal four, let me be clear with three main arguments. first of all, our companies, or your companies, cannot be successful without a successful single market, so it’s in your interest to make the whole european union successful. the second argument is: we see a redistribution of the global economic power going on, and i don’t want to see that china is the big winner and that europe is the big loser. and the third argument is that in 2008, 2009 and 2010, we had already faced the phenomenon of a lost generation, and europe cannot accept another lost generation in this crisis. that is why i think we have good arguments for convincing some. for us, solidarity goes always hand-in-hand with responsibility. that is always two sides of the same coin for us in the epp. and having this in mind, i tell you that when we go to the markets now, to borrow money, we have to be clear to have a full and strong and serious idea – an honest idea – about how to pay it back. and to say that in the next mff, having the debates in march in mind, when the council tried already to find a common understanding about the mff of today, i don’t believe that this will be so easy. that’s why, as epp – let’s be honest, let’s be clear. and that means we need own resources for paying back the debt we have now installed. the big winners of the crisis are the digital giants, and that’s why i think it’s fair to ask the digital giants to pay part of the debt we are creating now. and another part of this solidarity, responsibility, is for us all the national perspective. you can call it semester. you can call it the need of internal reforms. i think it is simply fair, if you ask your neighbour to help you, to practise solidarity. it’s simply fair to do your homework, to be better prepared for the future, and in a globalised world, we need still reforms. there are thousands of other principles which are important: rule of law; a key issue the epp supports is the grant-loan debate: i think we have now a good compromise on the table. the health programme is upgraded – a big signal, an important signal, in today’s corona time. and the mff – there we will still have further discussions, and it is about agriculture and cohesion. so the plan goes in a good direction. it’s an important moment for the future of the european union, and the epp will generally support the ideas from the commission. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs von der leyen, one month after this european parliament adopted a resolution, you are here today presenting the european commission's recovery plan, and i must say something: it is an ambitious plan, it is a pro-european plan and it is a plan that is in line with what we had demanded. first of all, thank you for giving the european parliament its proper role, putting us in the same position as the council in placing this recovery plan within the financial framework and the own resources to which you are referring. and secondly, because this plan includes the union's debt, the issuing of bonds by the european commission, which allows the member states to be able to finance themselves in a fair way to deal with this crisis. and it's obvious that something has changed. some of the proposals you include, and to which several governments have already shown their support, would have been unthinkable a few months ago. the commission and this parliament and many of the national governments fully understand how much we are at stake. we are playing with the future and the credibility of the european project. it is not just a question of solidarity, but also of the survival of the euro and the single market and, therefore, of the survival of the european project. because some of you may not have understood that we are not here to make a market - at least my political group is not here to make a market - but to build a political union. some in the council are talking as if nothing had happened here, as if the great crisis that has occurred in recent months had not happened, as if more than 160 000 people had not died in europe, as if the jobs of more than 60 million europeans had not been put at risk, as if we did not know that this crisis is going to lead to a major recession and that the gdp of the euro area is going to contract by almost 8% this year. if this does not move us to action, i really do not know what some people are waiting for. this is the moment of truth, to put the cards on the table. we want to continue to build political union because this goes beyond solidarity and because we must also assume that in this increasingly turbulent world it is worthwhile to work to defend the european project. the covid-19 crisis is a symmetrical crisis but with asymmetrical effects. and the fundamental question that arises today is whether we think that the european union should correct these asymmetries. what is not acceptable is to say that we are working on a common project, but then some member states are allowed to go out to help their businesses, while businesses in other member states are left to die for lack of resources. because here, either we all get out or no one gets out. now, if there is anyone in the council who does not believe in european solutions and convergence, what he should do is not to impede the progress of those of us who do believe in europe. let's be honest, the problem is not putting more money in, the problem is moving forward in europe. the council should therefore change the procedure so that the multiannual budget can be adopted by qualified majority rather than unanimously. because it is unfair that 23 pro-european countries are held hostage by four that prefer national responses. apart from the lack of solidarity, i think it is a really short-sighted attitude, short-sighted, because we only have to look around us to realize that multilateralism is at risk and that we need global governance. it is also time to strengthen the social pillar, to protect those who need it most. that's why i'm glad to see you've included child support. and it is also our duty to show solidarity with future generations by investing in the key policies for tomorrow: the green and digital transformation, because we cannot destroy the environment, destroy biodiversity and, on top of that, put massive debts on their backs. that is why it is essential, mrs von der leyen, that you maintain your proposal to change the european semester. we must overcome the logic of fiscal consolidation. we can't put conditions on pension cuts. conditions must be put in place to advance environmental sustainability and social sustainability. the future we want to build together must also be based on respect for the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, we must take responsibility. mrs von der leyen, you have already seen that here in the european parliament you have a project which is always ready to work for the good of the citizens. now it's up to you to convince your friends on the council. be firm, be ambitious, and you'll have us on your side. we owe it to the next generations of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this health and economic crisis we face is a game-changer unprecedented in the history of european union. the magnitude of this crisis and its extraordinary challenges require a sizable and rapid response. there is no alternative. either we find a solution to invest massively in our economy or we accept that we will be hit even harder. let me be clear, this is a package for all member states, and all member states need this package, irrespective of how badly they were affected by the health and economic crisis because the internal market is at stake. if the internal market fails, every citizen and business in the european union will suffer. the solution by president von der leyen for the commission to borrow money from the market is a remarkable one, we have to recognise this. our opinion may differ in some details, but i really welcome the approach – a european solution for a european problem. it also avoids the major difficulty we had during the last crisis: creating more debt for some member states when in fact they need money to inject immediately in their economies. decisions that we take now will define europe’s road for the next 20-30 years, because we are investing massively now not only to recover but to relaunch and to modernise our economy, so we are creating debts for the generations to come. and that is why the multiannual framework (mff) and the recovery package should focus on the future, not stay fixed on ideas from the past. first, we need to restore economic perspective. we need to safeguard and create new jobs. we need to focus on investment with real economic and european added value. the green deal and digital agenda should be the building blocks of a resilient and sovereign european economy. second, solidarity is key. the fight against territorial divides and inequalities across europe will be the breeding ground for our union or the seeds of our future division, so that’s why we must stand united. third, the european union is not a cash machine. it’s a common project where solidarity comes with values and the shared vision for our future. and that’s why renew europe group will only support mff where the rule of law and respect of european values are a condition to receiving european funds: not to penalise people but the politicians who do not play by the rules. fourth, certainly there are many lessons to be learned from this crisis, reasons to reform and improve areas where the european union needs to be more present. and that is why the conference on the future of europe: our common future, should get underway. the road to recovery will be long and hard. the decision we take these days will affect the future of millions of people, the future of the internal market and the future of our european union. and that is why the european union must stay united and fight as one. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, the pandemic has had a serious impact on ongoing european citizens’ initiatives – organisers and citizens were not able to lead effective signature collection campaigns. we need to support them and make sure that the eu’s main instrument for participatory democracy gets back on track as quickly as possible. engagement of citizens is an essential tool to strengthen our union. i kindly request that the house accepts to follow the urgent procedure under rule 163 to deal with the commission’s proposal, that we welcome, for a regulation laying down temporary measures concerning the time limits for the collection, verification and examination stages provided in regulation (eu) 2019/788 on the european citizens’ initiative in view of the covid-19 outbreak, as agreed with the large majority of the political groups.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr. president, i can't breathe. i have to go. the words of george floyd during a long agony of more than eight minutes and 46 seconds are not just the cry of an instant, but the injustice and reality of our time. why does police violence suffocate blacks more than whites? why is the covid-19 health and socioeconomic crisis suffocating blacks more than whites? why does climate change suffocate blacks more than whites? rosa parks went to jail for refusing to give up her seat to a white man and not stay in the back of the bus. martin luther king paid with his life a life dedicated to ending racial discrimination in the united states. but inequality and the pain caused by discrimination have not prevented their dreams from living on decades later: the cry for equality and social justice of the millions of people who, in recent weeks, in all the streets of the world, have given us hope. a hope that calls for compromise. and as representatives of the european citizens, we have an obligation to eradicate the structural racism still latent in our cities and towns. it is unacceptable that the anti-discrimination directive has been blocked in the council since 2008. i see here the commissioner helena dali. i hope that she will be a good partner in helping to unblock this issue, because we need legislative instruments to be able to put an end to racism, also in europe, at a time when political parties in europe that declare themselves racist are being reborn. we know that peoples who do not know their history are doomed to repeat it. a citizenry subjected to discrimination because of the colour of its skin, sex, religion, is doomed to failure. we can only achieve progress in our societies if we first ensure that all human beings are free and equal. and, thanks to the voices of millions of citizens who have reminded us that black lives matter, from the european union we must speak loud and clear: "take the white knees off the black collars forever". finally, we're even.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, black lives, all lives matter. george floyd's death was terrifying. this brutal crime has proved that in our societies there is still a real lack of respect for human life. but we have to be honest, racism is not an exclusively american problem, it is also a european problem. what is happening in the united states with george floyd, the aggressiveness of his death and the lack of respect for human life that this reflects should make us look more closely at our european courtyard. with different socio-historical roots, racism and discrimination exist in the west as well as in the west of our union. all too often, fear of the other is accompanied by deep-seated structural, institutional discrimination, socioeconomic inequalities which end up harming our society as a whole. and unfortunately some politicians also play on this fear to nurture this feeling and use it for electoral purposes. a society in which we have to be afraid if we are different from others is not a society that allows human flourishing. the europe i want is a europe that makes diversity an asset and a driving force. it is not enough to legislate respect for diversity, non-discrimination, but above all it is necessary to cultivate it, not to impose it by force, but to cultivate it with common sense. i believe that we must first of all start with ourselves and, on behalf of my political group, i would like to propose that the three european institutions work together on this issue. parliament, the commission and the council must sit down at the same table and ask themselves whether our institutions within the union reflect the diversity of our union sufficiently. i therefore ask the council, and you, madam president, to support the initiative of a task force on this subject. because we have to contribute to building an inclusive society, starting with ourselves. and after we set the example, we can also urge others to respect these principles. racism and discrimination are a shameful part of our common history and unfortunately also of our present. it is our duty and responsibility to ensure that racism and discrimination are not part of our future.
we must also combat structural racism and hatred of minorities in the eu. police violence and racism are also a daily experience for black people and other minorities in the eu. the eu is called upon to present strong measures to combat structural racism and police violence. verbal and physical attacks on minorities are attacks on all of us and we must stand up to them. racism and hatred of minorities must never again be allowed to be tolerated. looking the other way is not an option!
the next item is the joint debate on: the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 19 june 2020 (2020/2656(rsp)), and the report by kati piri and christophe hansen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on international trade, on the european parliament recommendation for the negotiations on a new partnership with the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland (2020/2023(ini)) (a9-0117/2020).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the coronavirus pandemic continues to create extraordinary challenges for our societies. as we emerge from the height of the health crisis, we now face a different, yet pressing, task: creating the conditions for a successful economic and social recovery. we need to support the sectors and regions most affected by the pandemic to kick-start the economy and lay the ground for a sustainable recovery across europe. yet we also need to ensure that other vital priorities for our union, such as the green and digital transition, are met and matched by the right resources. that is why the eu recovery plan, presented by the commission at the end of may, is so important, and why it will be the main focus of our efforts in the weeks ahead. we will shortly be called on to agree not only on the instruments of the recovery, but on the entire multiannual financial framework (mff) for the coming years, and this is no small task. the council and the european council are fully mobilised behind this common effort. members of the european council will hold an orientation debate on the eu recovery package on friday through video conference. the president of the european council wants to give leaders an opportunity to discuss the various aspects of the overall packages and prepare the subsequent summit, which should, if possible, be a physical meeting. while the president of the european council launched the political consultations at the highest level, following the commission’s proposal, we also immediately started work in the council. the croatian presidency has organised a series of meetings, both at technical and political levels, in order for the delegates to closely examine and present their views on the building blocks of the package. this technical and political work on the proposals is needed to pave the way for the leaders’ discussion. these discussions in the council have helped clarify many issues and were held in a positive atmosphere. delegations are willing to look at both the mff and the recovery plan as a package, taking into account the effects of this crisis. continuous cooperation with the european parliament will remain crucial if we want the package to enter into force already in january 2021. the ambition is for the european council to provide its political guidance to the council before the summer break, which would allow us to promptly seek the european parliament’s consent. let us be honest: this is a very ambitious approach. positions are still apart on a number of issues, but together we have to make sure and do our utmost so that the mff and the recovery instrument swiftly bring tangible positive effects for our citizens and businesses. while the eu recovery package will be the main focus of the leaders’ discussions on friday, they will also touch upon other issues. in particular, let me note that president michel will update the leaders on the state of play of the eu—uk negotiations on the future partnership. unfortunately, so far we have not have not achieved as much as we had hoped for. that is the case in all four crucial areas: the level playing field, fisheries, governance and internal security, as well as foreign policy and external security, to which you rightly devote a section in your recommendation. since the uk government has confirmed that they will not consider an extension of the transition period, what is ahead of us is about four months of further negotiation, taking into account the time necessary for a proper ratification process. the fact that we are left with so little time is not the choice of the council, nor of the parliament, but we have to respect it. the mandate and political declaration that are guiding our negotiator, as well as your resolution on the subject, are anchored into the situation created by the united kingdom. the uk has a choice: either to preserve enough alignment with the union and retain substantial access to the single market, or choose its own path – not only in terms of sovereignty, but also in regulatory terms, which would reduce the scope and the depth of the partnership that can be concluded. we believe that the negotiating mandate, adopted by the council last february and largely echoed by your resolution, provides for enough flexibility to find an agreement in the little time left. this is also why we support the decision of the negotiators to intensify the pace of negotiations over the summer so that, by october, we can see a draft partnership emerging. before i conclude, let me finally stress that, as also pointed out in your draft recommendation, we have causes for concern in the current implementation of the withdrawal agreement. needless to say, progress in the partnership negotiations has to go hand in hand with progress in the implementation of the withdrawal agreement.
president of the commission. – mr president, the negotiations with the united kingdom always promised to be difficult, and they have not disappointed. on monday, president sassoli, president michel, and i discussed the way forward with prime minister johnson. the prime minister confirmed that he does not want to extend the transition period beyond the end of this year. we, on our side, have always been ready to grant an extension, but it takes two to tango. this means that we are now half-way through these negotiations with five months left to go, but we are definitely not half-way through the work to reach an agreement, with little time ahead of us. we will do all in our power to reach an agreement; we will be constructive, as we’ve always been, and we are ready to be creative to find common ground where there seems to be none. what we are not ready to do is to put into question our principles and the integrity of our union because it is our duty to protect the interests of the european citizens. michel barnier has done an outstanding job over the last month and has explained many times why the four outstanding issues are so crucial. first of all, the level playing field. the fundamental issue at stake here is fair competition. we are ready and willing to compete with british firms. they are excellent and our firms are excellent too; but it cannot be a downward competition. just think of labour standards or environmental protection. it should be a shared interest for the european union and the uk to never slide backwards and always advance together towards higher standards. second, on fisheries: no one is questioning the uk’s sovereignty in its own waters, without any question. but we ask for predictability and we ask for guarantees for fishermen and fisherwomen who have been sailing in those waters for decades. it is very clear that there cannot be a comprehensive trade agreement without fisheries, without a level playing field or without strong governance mechanisms. governance may sound like an issue for bureaucrats but it is not. it is central for our businesses and our private citizens, both in the uk and in the european union. it is crucial to ensure that what has been agreed is actually done. finally, on police and judicial cooperation: we want our citizens’ liberties, fundamental rights and data to be safeguarded in all circumstances and this is why we expect a role for the european court of justice where it matters. these are objectives, not only in our discussions with the uk but in any relationship with any partner because these are principles at the heart of the european union. fair competition, rising social standards, the protection of our citizens and the rule of law, this is who we are and it is not going to change. honourable members, i am particularly glad for the unity that all institutions have shown and for this parliament’s full support throughout this process. this will be even be more important than the next phase of the talks. no one can say with certainty where these negotiations will be at the end of the year, but i know for sure that we will have done everything to reach an agreement and to have a good start with the uk as a third-country neighbour. meine sehr geehrten damen und herren abgeordneten! unsere britischen freunde sind leider entschlossen, einen schritt zurückzugehen. sie wollen die europäische union und den gemeinsamen markt verlassen. wir werden weiter daran arbeiten, die wirtschaftlichen folgen für unsere union abzufedern, und gleichzeitig fordert uns die gesundheits- und wirtschaftskrise in einer noch nie dagewesenen form heraus. die europäische kommission ist in die verantwortung gegangen. mit next generation eu haben wir einen ambitionierten, einen mutigen vorschlag präsentiert. next generation eu ist ausgewogen, es hilft jenen, die viele kranke und tote zu beklagen haben, aber es hilft ebenso den staaten, die indirekt schwer betroffen sind, weil lieferketten gerissen sind, weil fabriken stillstehen, weil die arbeitslosigkeit steigt. next generation eu ist aber weit mehr als ein rettungspaket. es ist ein beschleuniger für wissenschaft, innovative forschung und investitionen in zukunftstechnologien. wenn wir es richtigmachen, wird next generation eu nicht nur zur erholung unseres binnenmarkts führen, sondern seine wettbewerbsfähigkeit und seine innovationskraft voranbringen. was uns wichtig ist, ist, dass wir damit die längst überfällige modernisierung beschleunigen. wir wollen nicht in den zustand vor der krise, sondern wir wollen nach vorne gehen in einer modernen wirtschaft, in einer innovationsfähigen wirtschaft, die uns nach der krise stärker macht, als wir vorher waren. next generation eu ist auch ein vertrag zwischen den generationen. ja, es stimmt, wir müssen jetzt gewaltige investitionen tätigen, um uns aus der krise zu wuchten, aber wir bauen mit dem geld ein besseres, ein nachhaltigeres und ein digitaleres europa. europa geht voran. andere regionen in der welt verfolgen ganz genau, was gerade hier passiert, und auch deswegen haben wir next generation eu so ausgerichtet, dass es europas position in der unmittelbaren nachbarschaft ebenso stärkt wie auf der großen bühne. wir haben jetzt die chance und die verpflichtung, ein europa zu bauen, das besser in der lage ist, den globalen stürmen zu trotzen und künftigen generationen eine sichere heimat zu sein. meine damen und herren, ich hatte schon mehrfach die gelegenheit, ihnen den mfr und next generation eu zu erläutern. das werden wir auch am freitag im europäischen rat tun. next generation eu wurde in seinen grundzügen positiv aufgenommen, auch die reaktion der märkte darauf war sehr positiv, und mir ist klar, dass es gleichzeitig sehr wichtig ist, dass wir diese aufgabe angesichts ihrer größe und komplexität ausführlich erklären und ausführlich diskutieren, auch hier in diesem haus. mir ist insbesondere wichtig: die rolle des europäischen parlaments, das richtige verhältnis zwischen nationalen reformanstrengungen in den mitgliedstaaten und unseren europäischen prioritäten – insbesondere dem european green deal, der digitalisierung und der resilienz – und drittens die bedeutung neuer eigenmittel für die union in einem fundierten rückzahlungsplan. es ist meine feste absicht, mit ihnen dazu im intensiven gespräch zu sein. wir müssen alle an einem strang ziehen, wir können uns keinen verzug leisten. lassen sie uns das gemeinsam anpacken für europa!
rapporteur. – mr president, 204 days: that is the time we have left to reach a deal on our future relationship with the united kingdom. we are now halfway through the transition period, we have held four rounds of negotiations, and it seems we have reached a stalemate. what is needed now is an injection of new energy and dynamism: a paradigm shift in these talks. and although the joint declaration of last monday didn’t give us many clues, in this house we all hope that the high-level meeting did just that: create a new dynamism. for this parliament, a comprehensive agreement means guarantees on fair competition with clear social, environmental and labour protection, and this is what prime minister johnson and the eu signed up to only months ago in the political declaration. none of this should be in any way controversial. with zero tariffs, zero quotas, comes – logically – zero dumping. an ambitious and comprehensive future partnership is in the best interest of both the uk and the eu citizens. we, of course, welcome the latest enthusiasm and euphoria of prime minister johnson and his drive to finalise a deal within six weeks – but the prime minister did not explain how. we very much look forward to hearing the details on that. over the past few months, the european parliament has shown its commitment and has taken its responsibility in reaching this deal. with the uk coordination group, two lead committees and 17 opinion-giving committees, we have developed a unique and unprecedented procedure for the report, prepared by christophe hansen and myself, that reflects how serious we take our role as the european parliament. our president this week took part in the high-level meeting to also present our position, and i’m proud to say that parliament stands united on a strong text with a clear political message. and that message is simple: yes, we want a deal, but we will not simply consent to just any deal. our consent is conditional on the uk government’s adherence to its own commitments. the uk must respect the political declaration and ensure the full implementation of the withdrawal agreement. let me be very clear: the uk’s expectation to keep the benefits and rights of a member state, without agreeing to any obligations, is not realistic. it’s only logical that, if you want to have access to the market of 450 million citizens, this will come with conditions. the uk government made a conscious decision to leave the single market. we respect this, but so should the united kingdom, and without a level playing field and fisheries, there cannot be a trade agreement. i do not see a divide between the people of the united kingdom and those of the european union. the division i see is between those that have a vision and seek a comprehensive deal, and a uk government that backtracks on its commitment and continues to put ideology over the interests of its own people. the way forward is clear: we stand united in our demand for an ambitious and comprehensive future partnership with clear conditions and red lines, as formulated. the european union is united and continues to stand ready to negotiate in good faith: constructively, as an honest broker. our chief negotiator, michel barnier, has our full support, and we hope that finally the time has come for mr johnson and the uk government to join us and deliver. we are ready.
rapporteur. – mr president, almost exactly four years ago, on 23 june 2016, the brexit referendum took place in the united kingdom. since then, we have been treated to four years of drama, witnessing the uk’s painful coming-to-grips with the reality of unwinding decades of membership of the largest single market in the world and, in my humble opinion, the best cooperation project – even with its imperfections – that mankind has so far created. the global britain that brexiteers dangled before the british people is no longer a viable project – if it even ever was – in a newly polarised world, where the institutions that underpin the multilateral order are being hollowed out and where protectionism is growing in the wake of the coronavirus. while the political brexit happened last january, the economic brexit still looms large at the end of this year, following the uk’s ideological decision not to extend the transition period. our message for the ongoing negotiations is crystal clear: the european parliament stands behind our chief negotiator, michel barnier. the uk claims to seek an agreement rooted only in precedent, yet their proposals in areas such as financial services or professional qualifications go well beyond what the eu has ever conceded in any other fta. the uk refuses to engage with the eu on topics such as public procurement – notwithstanding commitments taken in the political declaration – and refuses to speak about smes, yet they do so with other negotiating partners, the latest example being the uk’s objectives for negotiations with australia, published today, and including government procurement and sme chapters. what a surprise! any agreement without robust guarantees for a level playing field or without an agreement on fisheries simply will not fly. and let’s be clear: a level playing field does not mean a copy/paste of our rules and regulations, but rather that we take our common point of departure as a point of no regression, following which we jointly managefuture divergence to guarantee equivalence, not necessarily identical rules for all players. we stand firmly behind the commission’s approach to press for a comprehensive agreement. we reject the uk’s piecemeal, sectoral approach as it is well known that salami tactics lead to a cluttered spaghetti-bowl agreement. the implementation of the withdrawal agreement remains key and the european court of justice must remain the sole referee of eu law. indeed, the eu is no less sovereign in its decision-making and decision-taking than the uk is. finally, allow me to thank my co-rapporteur, kati piri, for the excellent collaboration we have had in this exercise. i would also like to thank the 17 committees which gave an opinion for their valuable input. i sincerely hope that there will only be one last brexit resolution: to consent to a balanced agreement no later than november this year. personally, i remain confident that the legendary british pragmatism will prevail over ideology in the interest of all uk and eu citizens. the unilateral, staged introduction of border controls for eu goods coming into the uk, announced last friday, to give corona-hit businesses time to adapt seems to indicate that. so let’s use this new momentum very wisely.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, compromise seems to mean that half a loaf is better than the entire loaf. it seems nowadays that that’s the position of the uk, whereas before, half a loaf was definitely not better than the entire loaf. prime minister johnson said yesterday, in a press conference, that he wanted a more dynamic nature to these negotiations. he wanted more ‘oomph’. well, that’s just a metaphor for the uk’s lack of cooperation in the last four rounds, the lack of transparency and also for its lack of commitment to the political declarations that were signed. prime minister johnson: he who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount! decisions have consequences, and the european parliament is committed to protecting the best interests of its citizens. the uk’s participation cannot be a swedish buffet. we cannot allow cherry-picking. we cannot allow a piecemeal approach. such decisions have consequences. but no one will take away the uk’s role in the unification of this continent. we all look around and know the fact that this parliament is sadder without its british colleagues on the benches and we also know that four years ago jo cox was slain at the hands of a murderer, and jo cox said to us, ‘that which unites us is more important than that which divides us’.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. let 's not kid ourselves . this brexit is and will remain a huge historical mistake it will only know losers. as so many times in history, it will be shown that separation and secession can only bring loss. only crossborder cooperation can bring real added value to the people of europe. the last 70 years have shown us this in a very impressive way. but now even a disorderly brexit is in the house. in fact, it has become very probable. i would like to see our small and mediumsized enterprises protected in this case, because they and their employees cannot do anything about this situation. these small companies also cannot respond as easily and flexibly to changing trade relations as the large players. so we need quick tools for small and mediumsized businesses in the event of a hard brexit that nobody wants. in december, in the committee on regional development, we proposed and supported the use of the solidarity fund in this case. i therefore urge the member states to allow our small and mediumsized enterprises to have recourse to the solidarity fund and to support them if hard brexit does indeed become a bitter reality.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, the united kingdom should become the eu’s strongest ally and partner. this is as yet more of an ambition than a reality, but we all can agree: today we look to the future. our proximity, the values we share and the common challenges we face make mobility, security, justice and home affairs cooperation as vital as trade. the safety and security of european citizens is essential for us; so is the protection of their personal data. the message of parliament is clear: we cannot compromise on our values, the continued adherence of the uk to the european convention on human rights and on the role of the european court of justice. the fight against terrorism, cybercrime, and cross-border criminality is one of the success stories in eu-uk relations. this should be continued. but let us not forget: by its own decision the uk will continue as a third country in this cooperation. we must hope that on the other side of the channel the sense of reality will overcome and we will be able to obtain the closest partnership possible for our citizens’ benefit.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – mr president, it is good to see my good friend mr barnier again. i must say that for the last few months we – together with you, i think, mr barnier – have been disappointed with the lack of progress in the negotiations. we have been disappointed with the uk’s continued and final refusal to extend the transition period to avoid the risk of a cliff edge in january and to ensure full and effective implementation of the withdrawal agreement on which future relations will be built, but we respect this choice. monday’s political momentum and the decision to intensify talks in july is good news in this context. so now there is a physical space, and i personally believe also political space to finalise the process, but i also want to emphasise that what is at stake is the quality of our future relationship. the benefits of a single market cannot be reconstructed within even the most generous free trade agreement. equivalence and voluntary regulatory cooperation on financial services cannot be put into a free trade agreement. let me finish by saying that london will continue as an important global financial centre. but at the same time it would greatly benefit from growing financial and capital markets in the european union. so the best choice for completing the negotiations is to follow the path of a long-term cooperative strategy.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on petitions mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for me, brexit was a mistake. instead, the agreement can correct that mistake. for four years, we have shown that we are part of the solution in this relationship, and we expect to see solutions from the uk as well. for four years we have been trying to find a compromise, but for four years we have been guaranteeing the citizens of the european union in the united kingdom that we will stand by them, and with this resolution we are sending a message, once again, that our values will be defended, and that everything that means the rights of citizens, both of the europeans in the united kingdom and of the british in europe, will be guaranteed by us, by the parliament, by the council and by the commission. good luck with what the next four months mean.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is now more than four and a half months ago since the united kingdom decided to leave our european union. from the very beginning, we in parliament’s uk coordination group followed the negotiations for a new partnership thoroughly and sought to ensure a strong political consensus. we have closely been in touch with our chief negotiator, michel barnier, whom i would like to thank personally for the excellent cooperation. i also would like to thank maroš šefčovič, and we will all be seeing each other again in about half an hour’s time for the next meeting of the uk coordination group. this report incorporates the opinions of no less than 17 committees. this is unprecedented, and it delivers a clear and strong message of unity. that’s why i would like to thank the rapporteurs, kati piri and christophe hansen, for their tireless work, but also the chairs and the rapporteurs of all the opinion-giving committees. yes, indeed, the high-level conference decided that new momentum is required for the negotiations. the eu is ready to intensify the talks in july to create the most conducive solutions for concluding an agreement soon. this should be in the interest of both sides.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, most of the members have referred to the brexit negotiations and i think that the message is clear. i would like to join in the appreciation of the great work that mr barnier is doing and, as many of his colleagues have said, we obviously have to support him in these negotiations because we are aware that they are at a crucial moment. but i also want to refer to the european council. ladies and gentlemen, time is of the essence. on the street, people are clear. and this parliament, too. i hope that the few reluctant governments in the council will also understand this and reach an agreement by july at the latest. we cannot go on holiday without activating the recovery plan and agreeing on the budget so that it can start to be implemented as early as january. the amount proposed by the commission, eur 750 billion, is the minimum. the same as the 500 billion for subsidies. all the international organizations are warning us that now is not the time to spare efforts but to invest in order to revive the economy. even our fellow conservatives and liberals who in 2008 were advocating austerity now recognize that it would be a big mistake. okay, because rectification is for the wise, and now is the time to row everyone in the same direction. we can harness this momentum to transform our economies and adapt them to the new digital context and the environmental emergency and ensure a fairer society with stronger public policies. the path is clear: invest in green and digital transition to modernise our economies. the governments in the council must now have the vision and the courage, because where there is no vision the people suffer. this parliament has the vision, and we will not budge. because we can't afford it and because the public wouldn't allow it. that is why we will not accept a bad agreement in the council. and also because we must continue to insist on the role of parliament in these decisions. i am referring to fundamental issues such as the management of the european recovery facility next generation eu. no crisis can be an excuse to undermine democracy. on the contrary, it requires more democracy and more accountability to solve it. the only condition to be imposed on the recovery plan is therefore respect for the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to learn how to reconcile our aims and principles with the reality of the facts. we cannot be naive in this increasingly complex world where former partners seem to have lost faith in multilateralism and cooperation. firmness, principle and vision. it is more important than ever that we stand up for a strong union, capable of setting the course.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time i believe that this week there will be a european council, the conclusions of which we already know. there will be no agreement on the so-called recovery plan and there will probably be a clash between the member states, as we have already seen and anticipated in the past few days. this is yet another demonstration of the inefficiency and inadequacy of the european institutions in responding to the crisis. we are looking at the commission proposal, which is already a very inadequate proposal. we're talking about 400 billion euros in subsidies as well, and three quarters of that money will not arrive until 2023, that is, three years after this crisis has started, when already companies, when already workers have lost their jobs. i believe that this is yet another demonstration of how the decision-making process within the european union is not suited to giving an answer to citizens and businesses, and, moreover, this effort, this money would be given in exchange for new european taxes, taxes that will be imposed on businesses, some seventy thousand businesses within the european union, so not just multinationals, and will be imposed on consumption, because of course businesses will reverse them on consumption. let me end with a statement, with a consideration: i would not like this plan, as the esm plan was in 2012, to be a plan to convert industries in some countries with money from other countries. it was with the esm with the banks of france and germany, and this is likely to be with german industry and other countries.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, let’s be honest. no one really expects anything to happen at this european council with regard to the recovery plan. we all think there will be some haggling and insisting on own positions, and afterwards everyone will go to the national press and say how well they have defended the national interest. even the president of the european council gave up on any outcome even before the summit had started. it’s quite shameful really that, when our heads of state and government come together, no one expects anything much to happen. wouldn’t it be great though if, for once, the expectations of europeans were over—fulfilled, if just once we didn’t wait until things were too late and until the mood was already really bad. we have an unforeseen crisis in the eu, and we all know that we need to act urgently in order to mitigate the economic impact. the eu as a whole needs to have, and provide, funds for this. the funds need to be targeted into the economy that we want to have tomorrow, not the one that puts profit over planet and people. a major effort is needed, but the benefits are great, especially if we link the investments to the challenges that we anyway have to face, namely the climate crisis, biodiversity loss, social inequality and digitalisation. imagine if, for once, governments could ditch the drama and go for bold and for courageous. it would be worthwhile because, in the end, it is in the national interest of every single member state to have a strong european union for their citizens and for their economy. our union is not a zero-sum game. it is the boat in which we are all sitting together. we fail together or we win together. so let’s make sure that we make a win for the future of the european union.
the fight over the recovery fund is like a game of poker in a dark casino. the eu is fond of referring to european values. but what we're seeing is a mixture of corruption and blackmail. countries in southern europe are being bought, countries in central and eastern europe are being bought off and countries in northern europe are being blackmailed! so it's not about covid-19, it's about a lot of money being distributed from brussels. this means more power for the commission, a higher eu budget and new european taxes. that's the purpose of the recovery fund. there is a long ratification process ahead and somewhere along the way someone is going to have the hammer. i imagine the british are glad they don't have to go through this. i am therefore surprised at the european parliament's resolution on brexit. it reads like a list of demands, like an ultimatum, and that to a country that pulled europe out of the mud twice in the last century. if it wasn't for the british, we wouldn't be here! wherever we would have been, we'll have to fill in the forms ourselves. the resolution is full of revenge. the british must be punished for leaving the eu. but that was on the basis of a democratic ruling, ladies and gentlemen. the eu sees itself as the benchmark for the world, as a great moral power. but the eu is often a pedantic little guy among the big boys. without a strategic vision. the balkan is warmly welcomed at the entrance. the british will have a cold shower on the way out. ladies and gentlemen, resolutions without vision produce politics without vision!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not a criticism of the excellent work of michel barnier, which i very much appreciate, but an analysis of the current situation which, given the british position - i would like to stress this, the british position - only allows the conclusion that we will have either a bad deal or a hard economic brexit at the end of the year. i would like to say on behalf of the left that we cannot accept any agreement which is social dumping, environmental dumping, tax dumping or which brings the security of private data to the market. but the johnson government wants such an agreement. that is not an option for us, and i hope it is not a real option for anyone in this house. but it is also time to think about a contingency plan to protect the regions and sectors most affected by brexit, to give the necessary protection to the hundreds of thousands of workers and businesses. and on the council: people are still waiting for a clear signal of solidarity and unity. next generation eu is more a bet on the future than a generational pact. the clearest signal would be to say goodbye to the stability and growth pact, which in the future will only lead to further cuts in public services and social security or to further privatisation. we need public investment, we need to close tax loopholes, we need to make taxation fair. the ecb should be able to directly support the public finances and super-rich speculators and corporations should be obliged to do their fair share of the reconstruction by introducing a comprehensive financial transaction tax, a strong digital tax and a wealth tax. this would be a sign of the solidarity europe is waiting for.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, while the situation on the health crisis seems to be stabilising, the economic challenges remain major. i believe that we have two options today: either we negotiate a national solution to the crisis, with each member state defending its own interests, or we accept that the only solution is to build together. this is the logic behind the recovery plan and the multiannual budget that we support. because, yes, we have to be clear, we are not asking for a sprinkling of funds, we will have to target where the funds have to be allocated. it will also be a question of conditioning for reform, so that this european solidarity is the engine of a genuine common recovery. i do not, however, hide my concern. we are about to borrow 750 billion euros from the financial markets without knowing exactly how we will repay this money. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. so we believe that only the rapid establishment of genuine own resources would make it possible to strengthen the credibility of this recovery plan and also guarantee the sustainability of the european project. i am not going to hide from you that the proposal on the european multiannual budget is much less ambitious than we expected and the very existence of a recovery plan is not enough to compensate for the weakness of this proposal because even if it is a package, the objectives are still different. while the recovery plan will help us get back on track, the new european budget will define our ability to cross the finish line. only an ambitious budget would therefore be able to provide a structural response to the many challenges we face and would establish our capacity to assume both economic and strategic independence. it would finance major european projects such as the battery project and the hydrogen project. he would allow such projects to come into being. but today i am concerned that some programmes which are intended to finance such essential projects as research, digital, the single market or defence are still underfunded. the same applies to social projects or projects concerning young people, for example. so i will end by saying that my group will not support a european budget which continues to provide funding to european governments which, every day, turn their backs on our values and undermine democracy and the rule of law. this has to stop and it has to stop fast.
madam president, looking at brexit, we see that it seems to have reached a stage of confrontation. in reality, we need a fair deal between the two parties. the fact that no progress has been made recently shows that action at the level of heads of state or government is needed. it's good, i think, that mrs. merkel, the president of france and boris johnson have a talk about unlocking. clearly, the european union cannot be asked to give up the criteria of the single market, nor can the british be asked to accept the exact reasons why they left the european union. i would therefore point out that the risk of no agreement is that each member state will make separate agreements with the united kingdom.
madam president, mr high representative, madam vice-president, it is clear that in this period, in addition to the crisis generated by the coronavirus, we have had this shock called the information pandemic, a shock that must be said exactly as it happened because the truth should not be avoided in this situation. the headquarters of this false information is in the russian federation. we in romania, the baltic states and poland know that russia is specialised in distorting reality, and this attack, mr vice-president borrell, is a very serious attack on european cohesion. it's good what you said. we have seen that there are commitments; there is a need for action. the russian federation must receive a response to these disinformation. there are thousands of stories that the commission has presented as part of this disinformation plan and we must act, including here in parliament, through a resolution.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues who constructively contributed to this report. the eastern partnership is about closer association between the european union and six partner countries. the extent of these relations and positive results of the european union’s support and action in its immediate neighbourhood will determine the union’s odds of global leadership. leadership requires a strong commitment. such commitment should be demonstrated by passing a historically justified and politically endorsed message to our partners that ‘their european aspirations are recognised and that by working together we can achieve necessary reform progress’. it is only a matter of time. our motto for the next decade of the eastern partnership should be ‘more for more’ and lead towards gradual and differentiated integration. it should be conditioned on the application of european values and democratic principles. i very much regret that mr borrell is leaving the chamber, although commissionervárhelyi is here. i have a very personal message for him as well. in the political area, our partners require continuous support and guidance in strengthening their democracies, ensuring the rule of law and fighting corruption. as in the economic field, we should gradually open access to the eu single market by creating a common economic area. let us remind ourselves that european security is indivisible. we cannot look at it through the eastern or western dimensions. there is only one, european, dimension and it is time to act as such. the eastern partnership initiative is rightly called a success story and will remain such as long as we act together, united by a common vision and joint action, dialogue and partnership. commissioner várhelyi, as you know from today’s news from the prison in belarus, the leader of the christian democratic party has cut his veins in protest at violence and injustice. i request from you a strong message and reaction to this inhuman act.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am pleased to speak here today about the future enlargement and its importance for the future of the european union, but i want to thank shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and dedication in our common endeavour. the main message of this report is to once again provide strong support of the european parliament in the continuation of the enlargement process as one of the european union’s more successful and strategic policies. enlargement is our most effective foreign policy instrument contributing to extending the outreach of the union’s core values, fostering peace and prosperity, equality, rule of law and respect for human rights across europe. this report highlights what is often forgotten: the merit-based prospect of full eu membership for the western balkans countries is in the union’s own political security and economic interests, as well as it is in the interest of the countries seeking full membership. for the first time after the accession of croatia in 2013, enlargement policy is again on the political agenda of the institutions. we welcome a new enhanced methodology breakthrough with the council’s approval to start negotiations with north macedonia and albania on the zagreb summit declaration. now we need the implementation of those decisions and proposals in concrete form and dates for starting accession negotiations. we would like to see a faster pace of closing chapters for the countries already negotiating, following more efficient scrutiny and supervision of their progress. it goes without saying that ambitious enlargement policy requires an adequate budget. therefore the council should provide for sufficient budgetary means in support of the enlargement policy. on the parliamentary role of cooperation, the european parliament is committed to intensifying political and institutional support for reforms in the western balkan countries in the process of eu accession. lastly, enlargement is a necessary condition for the eu’s credibility and influence in the region and beyond. we can only be successful globally if we are credible in our immediate neighbourhood.
member of the commission. – madam president, for our geopolitical commission, full engagement with our neighbours is a top priority. these are not just words: we have translated them into action. let me start with the western balkans, a region at the heart of europe and surrounded by our member states. in the first six months of our mandate we have first, in february, proposed a revised enlargement methodology. the aim was to make the accession negotiations more credible, more predictable, more dynamic and guided by a stronger political steer. second, and despite the covid pandemic, in march the council adopted a decision to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania, and i’m pleased that both these decisions have been confirmed by the european council. to support the region hit by the pandemic, in april, the commission put forward an unparalleled financial package of eur 3.3 billion, mobilised together with the european investment bank. in addition, we associated the western balkans to a number of initiatives normally reserved for our member states only. in may, we had the zagreb summit, where eu leaders not only reiterated our strong solidarity with the region but also reaffirmed the region’s european perspective and sent a message of enhanced engagement from the eu side. the commission was tasked to come forward with a substantial economic development and investment plan to accelerate the reforms and the catching-up of the region. still this week, the commission will propose the draft negotiating frameworks for albania and north macedonia to the council, together with an update on the progress made. we look forward to the adoption and the first intergovernmental conferences soon. enlargement is merit-based. to progress on their eu path, the western balkan countries need to continue to deliver on the reforms. further work is required on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as on fundamental freedoms and human rights. fast and tangible results on reform mean moving faster in accession negotiations, as was underlined in the enhanced methodology. the commission will look at the progress achieved in the annual package to be presented in the autumn. also in the autumn, we will come forward with an economic and investment plan for the western balkans to support the long-term economic recovery and to bring the region closer to the eu. the plan will reflect many areas identified in your report, such as connectivity (especially in transport and energy), green transition and digital transformation. this plan should bring growth and jobs to the region, also as part of our common recovery effort after the pandemic. let me now focus on the eastern neighbourhood. let me thank this house for your overall support for the vision on the future of the eastern partnership that we have put forward with the joint communication adopted in march. our commitment towards the eastern partnership and its future was emphasised at last week’s foreign affairs ministerial conference, together with our partner countries. i am convinced that it will also be confirmed at the leaders meeting later this afternoon. our aim is to build, together with the partner countries, an ambitious, flexible and inclusive partnership that constitutes and continues to bring concrete results to the people. in this context, i am proud that the eu is delivering close to eur 2.5 billion in support for our eastern partners in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. in addition to grants, this includes very substantial macrofinancial assistance in loans on highly favourable terms to help the countries cover their immediate urgent financing needs and strengthen their macroeconomic stability. this package also helps to save jobs as part of the economic recovery in the region by providing liquidity to the whole of the economy and by direct financial support to the smes. this crisis has further underlined how important resilience is as the overarching framework for our relations, and it will be at the heart of the eastern partnership going forward. our march communication puts forward an ambitious vision for our future cooperation through five broad policy objectives. first, to work towards resilient economies with strengthened connectivity. second, to support the development of accountable institutions, the rule of law and security. third, to support the green transformation and work on environmental and climate resilience. fourth, support the digital transformation; and fifth, to work together towards the development of resilient, fair and inclusive societies. as a next step, we will work on transforming the policy objectives into practice. together with the member states, partner countries and others, we will shape the post 2020 deliverables, to be endorsed at the next summit in early 2021. we count on your continuous support and cooperation to ensure a strong partnership for the years to come. finally, to the rapporteur, mr auštrevičius, i will look into this issue you mentioned. this is new to me. i was not aware of it and, of course, we will come out and make public messaging appropriately about it.
in writing. while the european union is leaning towards albania or kosovo, opening negotiations with one and considering visa-free travel for the other, what a shocking spectacle that of a kosovar president shying away the representative of the union and designating washington as the only legitimate interlocutor for talks with serbia. this is further evidence that the european union is struggling to convert its considerable financial support, estimated at several billion euros, into political dividends in the balkans, which has become the playground of all the world's major powers - from china to turkey. as a sign of the times, these candidate countries are not paying much attention to the european accession criteria. what about albania and its liberticidal laws, for example, which make its own president fear that it will become the north korea of europe? it is clear that this umpteenth enlargement is a fraudulent market, which will be exploited by only a few investors looking for the lowest wages, in defiance of the interests of the people.
in writing. the eastern partnership is of paramount importance to the eu and therefore ambitious messages should be conveyed that represent a realistic european perspective and that entail mutual commitments. with regard to the reform processes in the acp countries, it is important to maintain the incentive to strengthen each country's relationship with the european union on the basis of its own ambition. it is important to recognise the aspirations of the associated members, while at the same time striving for the unity of the eastern partnership and for the full exploitation of the potential of the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. i believe it is important that the expansion of border crossings should be part of the infrastructure development plan between the eu and the eastern partnership countries, so that more new and modern border crossings can be opened between the eu and its neighbours. we need to put more emphasis on young people, extend individual eu programmes even further to the eastern partnership countries than the erasmus+ and creative europe programmes already implemented, and also encourage participation in horizon europe. the eastern partner countries should be called upon to create equal opportunities for the representation of all ethnic and national minorities, to guarantee the rights to information and expression in their mother tongue, to combat all forms of hate speech and discrimination based on ethnic and linguistic grounds, and to combat fake news and misinformation targeting ethnic and national minorities, when amending their electoral legislation.
in writing. the eastern partnership is an important part of the eu's neighbourhood policy and aims to achieve political association, ensure further economic integration, promote prosperity and provide a platform to address common challenges, including sustainable development. it is important to reassure georgia, ukraine and moldova that despite the difficulties faced by the eu countries, cooperation with the eastern partnership countries has not been left in the background.
we now move on to the second round of voting. the voting will take place from 2.30 to 3.45 p.m. the votes will be taken using the same procedure - we are all trained by now - as we used this morning. i call the second round of voting open. i repeat, the vote will take place at 3.45 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced at 6.15 p.m. thank you for your cooperation. (the sitting was suspended at 2.23 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on: - the question with request for an oral answer to the council on the situation in the schengen area following the covid-19 pandemic, by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000037/2020 - b9-0010/20), - question for an oral answer to the commission by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation in the schengen area following the covid-19 pandemic (o-000038/2020 - b9-0011/20).
author. mr president, commissioner johansson, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, it is my honour to put an oral question to the commission on schengen. we need to talk about schengen. for one thing, it's his birthday. on 14 june 1985, in a small town in luxembourg, an agreement was concluded, followed by the 1990 convention and, in particular, by the european legislation on schengen which this european parliament has adopted and which is in force. but we must talk about schengen, especially because it is not showing good health. because schengen is at stake, schengen is at stake. and here's the thing. those of us who work in the european institutions often find it difficult to explain the 'european words', but schengen needs no explanation. because everyone knows that it is the most precious asset of the european experience. the asset that best distinguishes the advantages of being european. the construction of europe. an area of free movement, without internal frontiers, without restrictions and without discrimination between europeans, which is now enjoyed by more than 400 million citizens of the european union. and it turns out that the schengen area is governed by european law: a schengen borders code, a regulation directly binding on the member states and enforceable by the courts in defence of european citizenship. it also provides for conditions for the re-establishment of internal borders for reasons of public security. but we have come across a situation that has never been seen before: covid-19. and that is why the resolution following this oral question is precisely entitled 'schengen area following the covid-19 outbreak'. what happens to schengen after covid-19? because the member states have rushed to adopt unilateral measures, which have not been coordinated or communicated with each other, to re-establish internal borders in the union, which have resulted in very long queues at the union's internal borders, have caused police overload, have caused problems in the supply of essential goods and also for temporary workers, also protected by european law. we have to talk about all these problems in this oral question and that is why we have asked you clearly, firstly, whether you consider that the measures and restrictions that have been introduced are in accordance with the schengen borders code, which establishes three principles: mutual trust, solidarity, but also the requirement of respect for the law. and it is true that public security has been invoked more than once for the re-establishment of internal borders, especially after terrorist attacks. we saw it. but public health had never been. it is covered by the schengen borders code for the re-establishment of the union's external borders, but not for the internal ones; it is therefore a lesson we have to learn. secondly, how does it envisage a schengen recovery? we talked about the recovery plan. how can schengen be brought back into full operation as soon as possible? thirdly, how can we ensure that checks are exceptional, as the schengen borders code requires, and in any case limited in time, time framed, with strict temporal restrictions? and fourthly, what practical measures can we take to ensure coordination and accountability, coordinated, of course, by the commission - the guardian of the treaties and of european law - in the face of common challenges? i ask for a vote in favour of the resolution resulting from this oral question, thanking, of course, the work of the schengen scrutiny group, represented here by its chairman, tanja fajon, but i would remind you that, first of all, the content of the resolution is a message to the commission that there should be no improvisation, no lack of coordination, no unilateral decisions or measures, no dynamic or spiral of action and reaction by some states against others, much less retaliatory measures based (inaudible words) on mutual trust, solidarity and coordination and respect for the law. we are working for the health of the schengen area. and finally, let me say that i am aware that this house (inaudible words) has enemies within the european parliament, as it has (inaudible words), who take advantage of any situation to (inaudible words) re-establish the internal borders of the union. it should be noted that the majority of parliament is in favour of the schengen recovery plan. it said that it was essential to have a schengen recovery plan to restore its health based on the principles of solidarity, mutual trust and non-discrimination between europeans under any circumstances. yesterday we debated racism here. the slogan was "black lives matter". sure they do, and this gives me grounds to say: schengen matters, too, schengen matters. black lives matter. sure they do. schengen matters too. (spanish) european law matters. european law matters even in times of crisis, even throughout the crisis. it must leave european law even throughout the crisis and learn out of experience. i would even add: european law matters especially in times of crisis, especially in times of covid. (spanish) full recovery (spanish) that is why, after this oral question, we conclude with a resolution that is committed to the full restoration of schengen, the full restoration of its good health. the most valuable asset of the european construction ever.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, over the last few months, the european union has been faced with the most challenging crisis since its creation. in addition to a very heavy toll on human lives, the covid—19 pandemic has jeopardised certain fundamental elements of the european project, such as the internal market and the freedom of movement. i believe you would all agree with me that throughout this most critical period the absolute priority has, understandably, been to slow down and eventually stop the very rapid spreading of the virus. to that effect, many member states have been forced to take legislative and practical measures which had a significant impact on free movement. in this context, the reintroduction of internal border controls was considered indispensable, even by some member states which before the covid—19 pandemic had been highly sceptical towards the application of such measures. according to the schengen border code, the reintroduction and prolongation of temporary internal border controls as a last resort and in response to a serious threat to public health can take place at the discretion of the member states. their application is, of course, subject to the fulfilment of the conditions set out in the relevant provisions. neither the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, nor any member state, has signalled any issue related to compliance with these conditions. furthermore, i would like to stress that since the outbreak of the pandemic all member states have been working tirelessly, with the political steering of the council and the coordinating support of the commission, in order to mitigate the side—effects of the measures imposed on the free movement of their citizens. a series of commission communications have been implemented by the member states by way of priority to ensure the free flow of essential goods such as food, medicine and personal protection items, as well as the transfer of key cross—border workers and the repatriation of eu citizens and residents. at the same time, member states have applied, in a coordinated way, restrictions on any unnecessary travel towards the eu. at the second stage, as the overall health situation has started to improve, member states have started easing the measures and full restoration of free movement within the european union. this phasing—out entails, in some cases, a gradual approach and the replacement of internal border controls with alternative measures such as police controls within the territory. at any rate, member states, with the support of the commission, are strongly committed to applying any measures still temporarily needed, in full compliance with the principles of proportionality and non—discrimination. most member states and schengen associate countries lifted internal border controls and related travel restrictions by mid-june. the rest intend to follow suit by the end of the month. we are aware that there are still many steps to be taken, especially regarding the coherent lifting of external border restrictions. the fact that the lifting of internal border control in a coordinated way has been set in motion without major problems provides ample evidence of the member states’ strong will for a fully—functioning schengen area. i am hopeful that we can use this positive momentum, along with the possible proposals that we expect from the commission regarding the legal framework for internal border controls, to launch a fruitful debate between the two co—legislators on this crucial subject, to safeguard the schengen area. any future amendments to the regime governing internal border control need to be stipulated in such a way as to provide credible answers to threats to public order, internal security and public health. they should ensure the strictly necessary and proportionate flexibility for member states and leave no scope for any abuse in their application.
member of the commission. – mr president, schengen is one of the major achievements and very much appreciated by our citizens, as was very rightly stressed by mr fernando lópez aguilar, chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). i would also say that schengen has passed not only a celebration of 35 years, but has also just passed a major test. at no time was schengen more important than in the last few months. all member states took drastic measures to protect our citizens from the virus. most schengen countries introduced temporary internal border controls in addition to other measures restricting free movement across the european union. altogether, these measures helped to save tens of thousands of lives but had serious consequences for freedom of movement and a large social and economic cost. on 5 april this year, the president of the european commission and the president of the european council presented a joint european roadmap towards lifting covid—19 containment measures. in line with the principles established in this roadmap, the commission presented, on 13 may, a communication setting out a coordinated, balanced and phased approach for lifting travel restrictions and controls at the internal borders. in the second stage, this also looked ahead to the ending of restrictions on non—essential travel to the eu through the external borders. due to the improvement of the epidemiological situation, by this monday most member states had lifted internal border controls and restrictions, including post—travel quarantine requirements. the commission has strongly encouraged the remaining member states also to lift internal border controls and restrictions to free movement by air, land and water within the european union at the same time. i expect that all internal border checks will have been lifted by the end of june before we start relaxing the external border restrictions. the schengen rules provide member states with a certain discretion to reintroduce border controls for two or six months at specific border sections or at all their internal borders. member states should set up specific authorised border crossing points. through bilateral contacts with ministers and my regular video conferences with all the schengen ministers, based on the work at technical level of the covid—19 information group (home affairs), we could address many issues and solve many problems, also regarding the scope of reintroduced border controls. in this emergency related to covid—19, the commission is of the opinion that eu member states and schengen states complied with the requirements of the schengen borders code. since 2015, six schengen states have also reintroduced border controls under the schengen borders code, following the recommendation of the council, motivated by extraordinary irregular migration, secondary movements, the external border situation and terrorist threats. these controls have been prolonged and prolonged and prolonged until the end of october / mid—november this year. the commission consistently encouraged alternatives to border controls, which may assure similar results. this concerns police checks, which, as explained in the recommendation of 12 may 2017 on proportionate police checks, can also be carried out in the border area and as such can replace non—systematic border checks. in 2017, the commission also proposed an amendment to the schengen governance rules with substantial reinforcement of procedural safeguards to ensure that the reintroduction of border controls is truly only a last-resort measure. as you know, the negotiations on these proposals are blocked, but recent experience with the use of border controls to address public health threats deserves further reflection. the commission is committed to lead a process of reflection about the legal and practical steps needed to improve our response and better prepare our societies for similar emergencies. in particular, we have to be able to provide, in the case of pandemics, a coherent eu response at the internal and external borders. currently, the eu can only intervene in the case of serious persistent threats at external borders, putting the overall functioning of the schengen area at risk. covid shows the need for better anticipation and for simplified or standardised procedures to be followed under the pressure of events. decisions on the temporary reintroduction of border controls should be subject to consultation, including, where appropriate, joint meetings between the member state concerned and the commission. as the experience of recent months has shown, this provision of the schengen borders code is rarely used in an emergency situation. the new pact on migration and asylum that i will present soon will be the occasion to launch a process to restore trust between member states and return to a fully-functioning schengen area. we will reflect on how to ensure coordination among the member states during emergencies in the future and on the future of schengen and how to make sure its legal framework and implementation are ready for new challenges.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, schengen is without doubt one of the pillars of the european union. i think that perhaps the most important achievement of the european construction, and there is no doubt that it has been challenged by this pandemic, has been challenged as never before in the course of our existence as a union. member states panicked and, to protect their citizens, understandably reacted by unilaterally and uncoordinatedly closing their borders. we must now ensure that there is progress for schengen, a recovery of schengen, done with respect for the idea of coordination and articulation and for that i want to congratulate the commission and thank the commission for the effort it has made and that, unfortunately, i must say to the council, the member states have not always followed to coordinate and articulate the rebuilding of the schengen area throughout the union. it has been a huge effort which has not always been followed up by the member states. that is what parliament is supporting here. and now let me only stress one point even to my president lopez aguilar because it's not true that the schengen borders code doesn't allow public health, because a serious threat to public policy includes public health in a pandemic and/or epidemic outbreak. public health for external borders is independent of any epidemic or pandemic, and so i think that it is totally legal to have this situation that we have.
on behalf of the s&d group. the president, the honourable commissioner. first of all, i'd like to thank you for all your cooperation and meetings over the last few weeks. i know that you are aware of the importance of rebuilding schengen, because without rebuilding schengen, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no rebuilding of the european economy. we're at a critical juncture here. schengen is celebrating 35 years this week and has never been more seriously threatened than it is today. in the health crisis, when the epidemic broke out, it turned out that the countries responded very selfishly, there was no harmonization, there was no coordinated action, borders were closed for the most part, there was no flow of people, people could not return home, there was no provision of medical equipment and medical personnel. we were not prepared for this situation, and to avoid it, we need clear rules. you mentioned it yourself, schengen has been under severe strain for a long time. for four years, six countries have been introducing internal controls without any legal basis and without any real arguments. these border closures, these actions of governments and these actions of these countries call into question the whole of schengen and the whole project of european integration. and i wonder if the measures were justified. in slovenia, nova gorica, it would be much easier to go to stara gorica, italian gorica, than perhaps 100 km away to maribor. the commission has not found that the measures in question were proportionate and effective. and i would like to warn you, colleagues, that when we talk about a common migration and asylum policy, if we link this issue with the issue of schengen action and reform, we will lose the project. both the legislative packages, both the migration and asylum policy and the schengen reform, both the legislative packages were adopted in this building and the responsibility is on the part of the european union countries.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, minister, at the last plenary session we paid tribute to robert schuman. its vision statement anticipates a europe that will integrate project by project, day by day, on the basis of mutual trust and solidarity. thirty-five years later, five member states were taking such a small step, based on the confidence that they could leave their borders in the hands of others. add another 35 years and we have what schengen is today: a fundamental freedom of european citizens, one that we have a duty to defend and strengthen. the pandemic has put the schengen area to the test. we have all tasted the bitter taste of a europe of borders and restrictions. the lack of coordination between member states, the shy language of the european commission and the closed borders have led european citizens to question our entire construction. we can't afford for this to happen again. this crisis has exposed us to many vulnerabilities, but it has also taught us a lot about ourselves as citizens, as societies and as a union. we have learned that we need each other, that we must support each other in difficult times, and that our resilience, europe's resilience, depends on everyone's resilience. we have all been outside the schengen area for a few months and we all understand what that means, which leaves us with a question: what about the romanian and bulgarian citizens, for whom being outside schengen is a daily reality that has lasted for 13 years? we are all european citizens, and romania and bulgaria deserve a political message about what europe means for all. i call on the german presidency of the council, which will take up its duties in two weeks' time, to put the correction of this political anomaly on the council's agenda.
mr president, your excellency, romania's admission to the schengen area is not a joke. i note with sadness that almost the only connection romania has with the schengen area is that it supplies seasonal workers. they do not benefit from the health and safety standard of the member state in which they work, but that is what we will discuss immediately. it is inadmissible to block romania's entry into the schengen area, even though it has fulfilled the technical criteria for accession since 2011. yet it is kept at the door, even though it is a purveyor of euro-optimism. we are debating today about a functioning schengen area, but we refuse to consolidate it, and that is because countries like the netherlands, led by its prime minister, have been unjustifiably opposed to romania's entry into schengen for years. by the way, i invite mr mark rutte to check the port of rotterdam on cigarette trafficking and tax evasion. romania has a pro-european epp president and government, strongly supportive of the rule of law. i wonder: why are romanians still being punished, even though they are the most pro-european in the european union?
the commission has already done so. if you had lived on the border for three months, as i have, you would have been shocked to see how schengen has been trampled underfoot in legal, substantive and symbolic terms. if member states respond with purely national measures of border closure even in times of crisis, then they have either not spoken to each other before, or they have no trust in each other, or both, and that is bad. and there was no agreement on closing borders, or opening up different economic sectors, or reuniting families, or setting a timetable for exit strategies. this has created a patchwork of controls, safeguards, new regulations that no one understood or could understand. do as the citizens of my constituency in eastern belgium: they have submitted a petition calling for schengen 2.0, which will prevent even in times of pandemic the closing of borders in the future, so that these border areas become community spaces again.
member of the commission. – mr president, schengen means freedom and schengen is based on mutual trust. schengen is a major achievement, and this is shown by the great engagement in this parliament for this issue and for schengen coming back to a fully functioning schengen area. when this first schengen agreement was signed 35 years ago, there were millions of europeans that didn’t even have the right to leave their own country. the last few months have reminded us what europe looks like without free movement. now slowly and responsibly we are regaining our freedoms. we cannot take the freedom of movement for granted. nor, for that matter, the significant benefits of european integration. we need to work hard every day to preserve and protect our common european project. to begin with, i would like to see the necessary decision in council to welcome the waiting member states into schengen, but in the long run, we have to do better than a return to the status quo. and it must go without saying that, of course, all member states, all schengen members and all those that would like to be members of schengen have to fully respect their fundamental rights and the european acquis of course. a well-functioning schengen area depends on mutual trust among member states and on a correct and efficient implementation of the schengen acquis. differences in one member state can affect all member states and subsequently put the schengen area at risk. we must continue to make sure the schengen legal framework is fit for purpose, so that it can meet new challenges such as the current health emergency. first, through better and more correct implementation. that includes alternatives for internal border checks, such as police controls inside the territory supported by technology and reinforced cross-border cooperation and information exchange between law enforcement authorities. to promote trust and then encourage exchange we will propose a renewed dialogue with all member states and regular high-level political debates on the state of schengen with parliament and the council. i am ready to continue to work closely, together with all of you in this house, towards this important goal.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the questions surrounding the application of internal border controls are vital for the preservation of the schengen acquis. therefore, the presidency, on behalf of the council, is very much looking forward to working closely with the european parliament and the commission on providing for a legally-sound and operationally-correct structure that would meet all the concerns of the two co—legislators. the ministers of home affairs agreed, at an informal video conference on 5 june, to proceed in a coordinated, transparent and phased manner in line with the principles of proportionality and non—discrimination and based on the criteria defined in the commission communication. a broad majority of the member states and the schengen associate countries lifted controls at the internal borders and ended the related travel restrictions by 15 june. the rest have expressed their intention to do that by the end of this month.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 19 june 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the schengen agreement is not just one of the most important achievements of the eu, but also a key tool for a proper functioning single market. internal border controls and closures have to be the exception to adequately remedy the serious threat to public policy or internal security. however, the european parliament had to raise questions too often in the recent times about the legality and proportionality of the introduced and extended internal border controls. member states’ justification is based on the covid-19 pandemic as well as on increased levels of migration and/or security threats. we definitely need a more appropriate union-level coordination. more targeted restrictions applicable at regional level, including cross-border regions, would have been more appropriate and less intrusive. the lack of real communication on member states’ decisions led us to a situation where information on introduced border controls and restrictions were not correctly communicated to citizens and enterprises. the collateral consequences were huge. the commission’s responsibility is to exercise appropriate scrutiny over the application of the schengen acquis, but the commission also need to be able to provide up-to-date information on member states’ rules to citizens. in that sense, i also welcome the creation of the ‘re-open eu’ website.
in writing. i ask you for a recovery package and a coronavirus solidarity fund: access to finance, including for non-euro area member states. (estimated eu gdp will decline by 7,4%); the amounts in the package to be provided through loans and mainly grants, direct payments for investments and equity; an assessment to be made before the end of the recovery strategy and the possibility of the mff being revised accordingly at mid-term; the new recovery and transformation fund to be calculated outside the amounts in the next mff and this recovery fund to be included in a consolidated mff and with new sources of financing; the introduction of a list of potential candidates for new own resources: a consolidated common corporate tax base, a digital services tax, a tax on financial transactions, a scheme for the trading of emissions certificates, a mechanism for the elimination of the vat and other taxes on plastic materials and other carbon dioxide emissions, and a simplified vat and other revenue source for the eu budget, but also for the adjustment of the vat and other revenue sources, and for the adjustment of all revenue and carbon dioxide emissions.
in writing. in recent decades, europe has not faced a challenge as serious as the covid-19 crisis. it has brought a number of sectors to their knees, with the full impact of the crisis still to be seen. one of the greatest challenges was the effective and proper functioning of one of our union's greatest achievements, schengen. i sincerely hope that the next call at the ep level for the accelerated admission of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area will not remain on paper, like the resolution of 11.12.2018, but this time it will really be heard by the council. bulgaria's place is in schengen. we have met all the criteria strictly and have full access to the schengen information system, but we are not yet a full member. mutual trust between member states is now more than ever a key condition for the effective functioning of the schengen area, and bulgaria has repeatedly demonstrated that it safeguards the eu's external borders securely and reliably. in conclusion, i would once again call on the council to present a new draft decision on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area by land, sea and air borders, in order to make schengen even more effective and to achieve a genuine and complete free area for even more european citizens.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the european protection of frontier workers and seasonal workers in the context of the covid-19 crisis (2020/2664 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, cross—border and seasonal workers support the agriculture, tourism and hospitality industries when labour demand cannot be covered by the host member state. working away from home is hard enough. protecting this vulnerable group of workers is therefore even more pressing especially during these times of unprecedented challenges following the outbreak of the covid—19 pandemic. confinement and social distancing measures have had a substantial negative effect on the european economy. unemployment rates have risen within a short period and businesses are facing difficulties, some sectors more than others. member states have implemented a large number of measures to prevent and mitigate severe economic implications on labour markets and national social security and welfare systems. many of these measures aim to protect workers in particularly sensitive sectors of the economy. while the health emergency is slowly receding and confinement measures are gradually being lifted, the economic and social difficulties remain intense. on 5 may, a video conference organised by the presidency offered the opportunity to employment and social policy ministers to share their views on existing strategies. while underlining the importance of a quick economic recovery, ministers expressed their support for strategies built on a coordinated approach, safeguarding employability, supporting businesses and protecting groups in need. the issue of cross—border and seasonal workers was brought up many times throughout the discussions. this vulnerable group is considered essential for many economic sectors. it has a vital role to play in the economic recovery and its members should not be discriminated against. the covid—19 pandemic forced member states to close their borders temporarily. nevertheless, member states and the members of the european council indicated clearly in a joint statement on 26 march that smooth border management for persons and goods should be assured in order to preserve the functioning of the single market. while some member states have already lifted all travel restrictions for cross—border and seasonal workers, others have committed to do so as soon as possible. ensuring safe working conditions is as important as ensuring free movement. it is essential that this vulnerable group of workers enjoy equal treatment to that provided for workers who are nationals of the host member state. they should receive adequate protection equipment and, where provided, they should be offered adequate accommodation in compliance with social distancing measures. moreover, workers should be trained and informed about changes and new procedures. member states are also committed to ensuring access to affordable social security for all citizens in cross—border situations. the revision of regulations on the coordination of the social security system would further facilitate the free movement of workers and would act as a catalyst for modernising the national social security system. i would like to thank parliament for keeping these problems faced by cross—border and seasonal workers high on the agenda. i look forward to this debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, the free movement of workers is a key principle of the eu internal market. millions of europeans live or work in a member state other than that of their nationality. we estimate that more than half a million workers are covering seasonal work in the eu. the covid—19 crisis has led to unprecedented measures across eu member states, having a direct impact on the free movement of workers, as was shown in the previous debates. the role of the commission is clear – ensure free movement of workers. in this context, on 30 march the commission published guidelines concerning the exercise of the free movement of workers. the goal was for frontier, posted and seasonal workers exercising critical occupations to have unhampered access to their workplace. we talk a lot about frontline workers and i have to repeat that among these frontline workers there are a lot also of seasonal workers who have played an indispensable role and have worked for critical goods and services like, for instance, foods. to ensure further clarity regarding social security, the commission also published a fact sheet of questions and answers, including information for the attention of frontier and posted workers affected by the restrictions on free movement related to covid—19. based on the dialogue with member states and stakeholders, we note that the guidelines have had a positive effect. we continue to monitor that the measures adopted by the member states are necessary and proportionate for the fight against the spread of the virus and non—discriminatory. important sectors of the european economy, in particular the agricultural and tourism sectors, require the support of seasonal workers for specific periods of the year. seasonal workers are often vulnerable to abuses and precarious working and living conditions, including health and safety, access to public services and decent housing, infringement of labour law and inadequate social security coverage. they are also more exposed to undeclared work, in particular in the form of unregistered employment. the covid—19 pandemic rendered more visible and acute the problems that many seasonal workers have faced for longer periods. while the situation has been improving recently, significant problems for seasonal workers still persist and need to be addressed. the principle applied to seasonal workers is very, very clear – equal treatment and no discrimination of eu mobile workers compared with national workers. this ensures the best protection for eu mobile workers, including for cross—border and seasonal workers. it means, for seasonal workers, they have exactly the same rights as nationals or residents of the member state in which they work. equal treatment requires proper application of national labour law, including those laws which result, from eu directives, to mobile workers. given that certain sectors of the economy, and especially the agricultural sector, require the support of seasonal workers from other member states, the commission asked member states to exchange information and establish specific procedures to ensure smooth circulation for such workers. in this respect, i welcome the joint declaration on the protection of seasonal workers signed on 15 may by the european social partners in agriculture. i also welcome the announcement by a member state to adapt its national legislation and to better control its application. our data confirms that the seasonal activities are exposed to undeclared work, often associated with abuses or limited access to social rights and health and safety for workers. in this context, it is essential to raise workers’ and employers’ awareness towards the benefits of declared work and the transition to declared work. this is actually the focus of the eu for fair work campaign of the european platform on tackling undeclared work. europe can also play a role in this context by developing actions with a focus on activities for cross—border workers, seasonal workers and, especially, young people. in the near future, both the platform and the us—european coordination office will be transferred to the european labour authority (ela). once fully operational, the ela will assist member states and the commission in the effective application and enforcement of union law related to labour mobility across the union and the coordination of social security systems within the union. one of the aims of the eu rules on social security coordination is to ensure that persons who work in two or more member states, such as seasonal workers, are subject to the legislation of the member state with which they have the closest links, promoting stable and continuous social security coverage. frequent changes in the applicable social security legislation may create an obstacle to the free movement of workers. i am convinced that the mutual assistance and cooperation between member states, such as the conclusion of bilateral agreements or making available information in the language of the seasonal workers on social security issues is essential to protect the rights of seasonal workers. the revision of the social security regulation for which the commission made a proposal back in 2016 is still being discussed between parliament and council. i am fully committed to help you finalising this important modernisation of the rules as soon as possible. i also want to repeat my full support for the introduction of a european social security number, requested in your draft resolution. let me also make an important point on the health and safety of workers. given the unprecedented crisis we are going through, this is one of the issues where we cannot fail our citizens. we have solid eu legislation on health and safety at work that applies to all workers, independently of the country where they work, the duration of the assignment or the precise tasks carried out. ensuring the health and safety of workers is our shared responsibility. it is the employer’s obligation to comply with all requirements and assess all possible risks at work, including new ones, and to put in place adequate preventive and protective measures. the completeness of this evaluation is particularly important in sectors where workers may be particularly exposed. employers are also obliged to provide workers with related information as well as necessary protective equipment and hygiene products. besides the guidelines on seasonal workers under preparation by the commission, the eu has taken numerous steps to support member states in this regard. but i have to add that it is member states’ responsibility to control the application of the rights and labour standards which are also applicable to seasonal workers. the eu european agency for health and safety at work has published guidance addressing covid—19 at the workplace, as well as the safe and healthy return to workplaces after covid. these documents assist employers in dealing with health and safety aspects at work. they also refer to the relevant national guidance for specific sectors and occupations, including those that are particularly susceptible to employ seasonal workers. i assure you that the protection of workers’ health and safety is one of my main priorities for the years to come. i will be working closely with the members of the european parliament, notably in view of updating the strategic framework of health and safety at work that will provide us with opportunities to look at post—covid—19 health and safety implications at the workplace, including for the most vulnerable workers. we are not forgetting that many seasonal workers are third country nationals and the covid—19 crisis has had a significant impact on the possibility for these workers to enter the union. the commission considers that these workers, in particular in the agricultural sector, often have an essential function. therefore, already in march, we recommended member states to authorise the entry of non—eu seasonal workers in agriculture, despite the closure of the eu external border. i welcome your resolution as an important contribution to future policy making. we want to achieve the same goal, ensuring that the rights of seasonal workers are protected, that the eu rules are enforced, and that the pillar of social rights applies to everybody.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). schengen must be scrapped and the borders closed. that is their vision for the future of europe. unfortunately, we have had a chance to try that vision of the future in the last few months. and what does it show? that vision of the future, that dream of le pen, baudet and wilders is a nightmare for millions of ordinary europeans. family members who couldn't bury their loved ones because a container at the border blocked the road. strawberries and asparagus rotting in the field because the seasonal workers who come to harvest them do not cross the border. borderline entrepreneurs who are being driven into bankruptcy because they have nowhere to go. you don't know what you're missing until you've lost it. a harsh observation, but also an important lesson. don't step in the "boundary tight" frame of the nexit call buttons in this house. let us cherish our achievements and continue to work together to create a truly fair labour market, a cross-border market, where hard work is rewarded, where decent housing is the norm, where crooked businesses are tackled and rights are protected. that is my vision for the future of europe!
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i want to identify correctly the subject of this resolution. seasonal and cross-border workers are the heartbeat that pumps energy into many sectors of the european economy. they are citizens who leave for a short or long time their families in romania, bulgaria, poland, portugal or spain and help to run important industries in other member states. they are also a financial support for those they leave behind, for their families and their children. we have whole sectors in the european union that depend on seasonal workers. it has been seen in the crisis we are going through that when these citizens cannot move across borders, food production, transportation, many services in tourism or other social, care and health services are put at risk. i say all this to understand the importance of these workers for the union, for the member states, for farms large and small, for construction companies, for hospitals, hotels or transport companies. for these reasons, i believe that protecting them where they work is part of the minimal respect we owe these people without which many key economic sectors would be shut down. but we have also seen in this crisis that many of the seasonal workers are housed in squalid conditions, that they are not provided with the minimum hygiene conditions and, when they get sick, they do not receive adequate medical treatment. i've even seen people die because of neglect and the fact that their social rights are not respected. that is why, on behalf of the renew group, i have initiated this resolution and i am pleased that we have broad support for this initiative. we owe it to these people to have clear rules about how they operate, to have permanent monitoring of their housing conditions and to have companies that try to cheat them shut down. european coordination of european legislation is needed and here, commissioner, i am counting on you. we need to work together, the commission, parliament and the council to give guidance... (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the political buzzword of the hour is "system relevant". in the last few weeks we have seen how important the european internal market and the free movement of workers are to our national economies. on the other hand, we have also seen how fragile this system is. czech nurses and doctors working in german hospitals had to choose between work and family overnight because the borders were closed. german and french farmers were worried about their harvest because they had no more harvest helpers. and if that were not enough, we have also been reminded of the situation in the meat industry in germany and the netherlands - conditions which were known but which have now led to the barrel overflowing. that is why it is good that we, as a parliament, are putting forward this resolution today. it is now up to the commission, and above all the member states, to put into practice and to deliver what has been put in place.
mr president, you are wondering what kind of thinking goes through the mind of someone who has migrant workers from poland and romania working 14 hours a day for 42 consecutive days. what is the mind of a man who threatens to throw a man out on the street because this migrant worker wants to report sick with a fever? what do you think when you dump a romanian migrant worker on the side of the road and leave him to his fate in a foreign country? unfortunately, these are examples from the last few weeks in my country, the netherlands. you think, as far as i'm concerned: what moves people? but you don't dismiss people. you don't dump them on the street. people are not disposable. the temporary workers, the agricultural sector and the food industry have, in my view, been destroyed. from east to west , we 're all agreed on this: something has to be done about this! our resolution contains proposals to address these abuses and exploitation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the right of residence for workers in the event of a dispute between the two sides of industry. set standards around decent housing with privacy and a lease. and continue with more inspectors in the risk sectors and with a european social security number. i trust that commissioner schmit will immediately address the abuses we are seeing at the moment and that he will get down to work on this resolution. the european member states must now come up with measures. they must act, because working in another european country is a great asset to me. it's an employee's right. but then everyone in europe must be able to be sure of a healthy and safe workplace.
mr president, this resolution initiated by the renew europe group and which i had the honour to coordinate is dedicated to the cross-border and seasonal workers, romanian, polish, bulgarian or other nationalities, who had to die in containers, be infected with covid-19 and suffer in inappropriate conditions so that today we can all unite, east and west, north and south, left and right, to be able to react with firmness and consensus. the crisis has shown us how vulnerable we are. unfortunately, these vulnerabilities have persisted for years. that's enough! cross-border workers are one of the strongest symbols of the european union, a symbol of freedom of movement and the prosperity of the internal market, making a vital contribution to europe's economic sectors. we hear you and we will fight, today and in the future, for your right to freedom of movement, for your right to pursue your european dream, to have a livelihood, a home, a decent life, to work in the labour market anywhere in europe and to be respected and treated without discrimination. we all, parliament, the commission, the member states, have a moral and legal responsibility to ensure that you have everything you need now and in the future.
mr president, the covid-19 crisis has brought to light a range of structural abuses and problems related to the mobility of workers in europe. i welcome the resolution which puts employers, the member states and europe in the face of their responsibilities. on the employer side, too much abuse and exploitation of seasonal workers is seen, above all. on the member states' side, public services are weakened by austerity and this has made the social and labour inspection services ineffective. finally, on the european side, several good recommendations have been issued throughout the crisis, but what about their follow-up by the member states, what about compliance with european and national legislation on the mobility of workers? we, the socialists, demand more transparency. we encourage the commission to continue to analyse the impact of the measures taken as a result of the closure of borders and the respect of workers' social and tax rights, and we hope that the conclusions will lead to an action plan including legislative provisions. finally, i would like to thank, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, the many associations and ngos and the social partners for their valuable and urgent help to workers throughout this crisis.
mr president, as you know, the covid-19 outbreak has dealt a severe blow to the economy of our continent. amidst this general stalemate, i rise today to speak in defense of our youth. in a country like france, where we are expecting a million unemployed, our students, our young graduates, are facing very serious difficulties. how many young people will not be able to find summer jobs to support themselves for the rest of the year? how many students will not find an internship to validate their degree? how many young graduates will graduate and search, not for months, but for years before finding a job in their field? how many young people, in general, dream of leaving this continent for a better future? in the meantime, the european union is forcing us to let in, to respect the most vile rules of globalist free trade, to let tens of thousands of posted workers into our country, to let in even more economic migrants, who are given priority over employment. before the european union and its commission reimpose its unbearable doctrine on us, think of our young people, think of our students, think of our graduates. the history of this house will be... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the age of 16 i was passing a school exam and my family, in order to buy a bicycle, sent me to work for 21 days in a seasonal job. i worked with love and with the bike in mind, without thinking about what my safety meant. today i see things differently. in this resolution, we call on the commission and the member states to take measures to ensure that workers are adequately protected by improving working conditions, by respecting accommodation standards, by improving health and safety standards. at the same time, employers and recruitment agencies must be made more responsible for respecting workers' rights. i thank the rapporteur for taking into account the six important points i proposed on behalf of the romanian delegation to the epp.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have this afternoon discussed an important subject, one which is at the very heart of the european construction: the free movement of workers. it is a great asset, it is a great achievement, but it is also a great responsibility. unfortunately, in the light of the present crisis, we have seen what we might have guessed before, that in this free movement there are also unacceptable situations, undignified working conditions, unacceptable living and housing conditions. i believe that this debate will help us to tackle and solve these problems more effectively and more quickly. it is not a solution, as some have said, to want to repeal the secondment directive, because if we applied that directive, well, there would be no such scandalous situations. and the problem is not the legal situation, but the lack of implementation. this is the fact that controls are absent or insufficient. so i think it is a call to all, of course to employers, of course to the member states, to apply the law, to apply european principles. i believe that if we do that, we will have made progress and restored the dignity of all those workers who deserve it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude, i would like to reiterate the council’s support with regard to the free movement of seasonal and cross-border workers, but let me reiterate the conditions for this support, which are providing these workers with a safe working environment, social protection and equal treatment with national workers. member states are ready to debate these issues further, together with parliament and the commission, seeking the best solution to face the daunting challenges posed by covid —19.
i would like to thank you very much, mrs brnjac. i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the matter. i thank you for your constant presence. i wish you all the best and hope that we will meet again. thank you, thank you. a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 19 june 2020. the sitting was adjourned until 6.15 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 4.34 p.m.) written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. covid-19 has challenged the normal functioning of the food supply chain. agriculture, as the first and most vulnerable link in this chain, has experienced a severe shortage of seasonal workers, and this in a period when the internal borders of the union were completely closed. the crisis has brought to the fore the importance and irreplaceable role of the 'invisible heroes' of seasonal workers, who are often from vulnerable social groups in eastern europe. the new cap and the farm-to-table strategy must take account of the importance of the agricultural and seasonal workers who provide the food on our table. they deserve healthy and safe working conditions, fair pay and social protection, and access to health services in the countries where they are temporarily residing. very often, these workers are abused by unscrupulous employers or temporary employment agencies. in this regard, it is necessary to ensure that seasonal workers have transparent access to information, in a language they understand, on employment contracts, social and health rights, support in the event of an accident at work, repatriation assistance, and the possibilities available to report abuses and to receive support without fear of reprisals.
in writing. the problems of europe's seasonal workers are not new. we talk about them periodically, and then the subject slips into the background until the next crisis. but what is new is what has happened in recent months with the wave of romanian workers, who left, in the midst of the pandemic, into the unknown, to work under unclear conditions, based on abusive contracts, risking their health and lives. for weeks on end, we have seen hundreds of testimonies in the romanian media about what they have endured. it was the result of a perfect storm, caused by a very weak government, by non-transparent bilateral deals with other states - which undermine the principles of the eu - and by individuals and companies who tried to profit from the european chaos, hoping to make easy money off the backs of desperate citizens. i welcome this resolution and the contribution made by the s&d group on seasonal workers. social democrats must continue to look beyond the institutions and always see the man. because this man often needs help and the comfort of knowing that, though poor, he will not be disqualified to second-class citizenship or left behind.
in writing. the free movement of workers is a workers' right and a fundamental principle of the european union, indispensable to the proper functioning of the internal market. the movement of labour should not only be free but also fair. article 45 (2) tfeu lays down the principle of equal treatment, which prohibits any discrimination on grounds of nationality against workers from member states in respect of recruitment, remuneration and other conditions of employment and occupation. this principle applies equally to cross-border and seasonal workers who must be guaranteed equal treatment with workers who are nationals of the host member state under eu law, both in terms of equal rights and equal working conditions or equal protection. we call on the commission and the member states to implement measures to ensure that cross-border and seasonal workers, cross-border entrepreneurs and self-employed persons are adequately protected against covid-19 and its consequences, including easy access to testing, and are provided with information on the risks and safety measures to be taken in a language they understand. we call for measures to be taken to ensure their health and safety and adequate housing conditions while travelling, ensuring safe distancing not only at their place of residence but also at their place of work, as well as decisions on repatriation that are not taken to the detriment of workers, should such decisions be necessary.
in writing. cross-border workers and seasonal workers are essential in key economic sectors and have been severely affected by the measures taken by member states to contain and prevent the spread of the virus in particular by border closures, temporary restrictions and internal border controls . it is important to take measures to protect their health and safety during their journey. the negative image of seasonal and cross-border workers must also be combated. on the other hand, employers also need clear rules and member states need to prepare for possible future waves of covid-19. this also requires the european commission to provide guidance and reliable data to help member states. we are very much in favour of proposals to this end. however, the resolution unfortunately confused the concept of cross-border and seasonal workers with that of non-qualified migrant workers. i reject in the strongest possible terms any reference to the 2018 global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, in particular to its objectives 5 and 22. however, as improving the situation of the target group of the staffing is very important, i shall abstain in the final vote.
in writing. i call on the european commission to exercise its role as guardian of the treaties and to ensure the implementation of the principle of equal treatment laid down in article 45 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which prohibits any discrimination on grounds of nationality between workers of the member states as regards employment, remuneration and working conditions. the covid-19 pandemic has brought to light the absolutely deplorable conditions under which most seasonal workers are working in europe in 2020, highlighting abuses such as non-compliance with health and safety standards at work, excessive working hours, failure to ensure minimum wages, improper housing conditions and the non-transparent and deceptive practices of recruitment agencies and local employers. i invite the european commission to come forward with proposals to ensure that workers have clear employment contracts before they leave, to set up a tool to enable workers to report abuses anonymously and to ensure the continued organisation of joint cross-border inspections at workplaces.
rapporteur. – i would like to ask the house to agree that after the vote on the regulation laying down temporary measures concerning the time limits for the collection, verification and examination stages provided for in regulation 788 on the european citizens’ initiative in view of the covid-19 outbreak, we refer the matter back to the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) for interinstitutional negotiations under rule 59(4).
madam president, what distinguishes extraordinary leaders from weak ones in such a trying time? what matters is where the priorities lie: in the long-term interests of the population or in the short-term interests of a small group. leaders whose actions endanger the lives and livelihoods of citizens are often the main sources of conspiracy theories and disinformation, and are generally characterized by impulsive decision-making, as is this bolsonaro. while brazilians think with fear about tomorrow, having a thousand deaths every day due to the covid-19 crisis, well, bolsonaro is thinking about the group interests of some brazilian businesses, of some entrepreneurs, and he is thinking about this without thinking a bit about the interest of the planet, the interest of its citizens and the amazon. the brazilian amazon is on the brink of catastrophe, and that's before fire season has even begun. it's coming and we'll see the planet suffer and burn again. brazil is retreating at a staggering rate on environmental protection, and this relaxation includes a new proposed law to give title deeds to farmers who illegally occupy indigenous lands. the numbers don't lie. last year, 99 percent of all deforestation in brazil was illegal, destroying 12,000 square kilometers of natural forest, most of it in the amazon. well, in the two minutes that i was given today, no less than six hectares of forest disappeared in the amazon and 54 hectares of forest disappeared worldwide. i agree with the rapporteur, mrs burkhardt, that we must tackle this problem at home, because we are part of the problem. it's not just the amazon that's going through this. there are smaller amazons even in europe. i think we need to lean on them and find a solution now, before it's too late.
i have to say, madam president, indeed, deforestation in the amazon is not a new problem. we have known this for decades, and the question of the trade agreement is not the decisive one. the bottom line is that the politics being pursued there is wrong and that has undoubtedly been reinvigorated by bolsonaro. we must therefore look at how we can intervene to alleviate the problem. it is also quite clear that the problem is also related to the fact that we are importers of raw materials from brazil. beef has been mentioned. if this demand side really matters, then we are called upon to provide solutions on this demand side as well. the commission is indeed on the defensive. two years ago, it launched a communication saying: 'additional demand-side regulation is needed to create a level playing field.' those are pious words, but so far nothing has happened. so i think we really need to make our demand side fair. in her report, mrs burkhardt has proposed a sensible supply chain approach which assesses the conditions under which products coming to europe are ultimately created. we have to move this forward. i hope that the commission will make a proposal to this effect so that we can have legislation in europe next year. as regards brazil: it's not just bolsonaro. we have recently seen a poll in brazil, which shows that 88% of the people in brazil are against the deforestation of the rainforest. that is why we must support them. let us also have a dialogue with the regional governments in brazil, because they are taking a very different position from bolsonaro. we also need to support the people of brazil.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we'll never find a vaccine for climate change, that's for sure. that's why the issue of climate change and the issue of biodiversity loss will have to come back to the fore once the corona crisis is over. but we are dealing with a government which is now shamelessly exploiting the crisis to cut down even more trees in the shadow of this crisis. we can't let that happen. and the message is even more bold, saying there is no deforestation. all colleagues have heard that the brazilian embassy says that there is no environmental damage in brazil. anyone who makes a deal with this government is complicit in the destruction of the rainforest, but also in human rights violations against the indigenous population. we all need to be clear about that. we are still the second largest importer of soybeans. our agricultural policy produces a lot of meat with soya from brazil and argentina. we must also get to the point where we finally change our agricultural policy - that is the heart of the matter - and not continue as before. i therefore also appeal to the german government to remove the issue of mercosur from the agenda of its presidency of the council and to place climate and biodiversity loss at the top of the agenda instead.
madam president, it’s by nearly 10 000 square kms per year that the rain forest is decreasing, is clear-cut, in the amazon. the uk alone is responsible for eating up around 500 football fields of beef produced in clear-cut rain forests every single year. in mato grosso only, 95% of the clear-cuts for soy production are even illegal under brazilian law. president bolsonaro encourages the illegal deforestation. he encourages the human rights violations against the indigenous population. but we here in the european union, we are partners in crime. we are responsible for thousands of hectares, square kilometres, of deforestation by importation of beef and soya. we’re investing billions of euros every single year to tackle climate change and we invest billions of euros to support our european farmers, especially the beef farmers, against this unfair competition on the international markets. so how can we actually explain that we use the money here to tackle climate change but we encourage the disaster abroad? this is a jekyll and hyde policy! stop the mercosur deal and put import bans on soya and beef from brazil now!
madam president, during the covid-19 crisis, due to the disappearance of pollution factors, phenomena have occurred that have surprised and delighted the european of the 21st century. the air finally became clear and breathable, marine species that modern man had not seen up close for many decades appeared along the continental shores and rivers, and pheasants and deer roamed the streets of some cities. it was like a demonstration of what we've done to nature and a preview of what we could have permanently in 2050, after we've met all the conditions of the green deal. but i also saw the tragic reverse. at the same time, taking advantage of our inattention and in a mad rush for agricultural land, the amazon rainforest has been cut down 50% more than in the same period last year, and the trend of illegal deforestation continues to rise. in contrast to our own perspective and the reality of others, i believe that it is time to temper our optimism about the goodwill and willingness of some of the countries we want to partner with to act as europe does and we must move towards imposing tougher conditions in negotiations and imports. as the shadow rapporteur on the new forest strategy, i know what efforts our farmers and forest owners will make to meet all the conditions and contribute to the green deal, but if we don't impose the exact same conditions and rigors on others, not only will we not stop the amazon scramble, but we will encourage unfair competition from which we will lose. green hill is ours, but it can't be just for us.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today’s debate has sent a clear message from the parliament that tackling deforestation in the amazon is a priority across almost all the political spectrum. it has also shown a clear understanding that the multi—faceted challenges that affect the amazon basin, its immense natural resources and its populations need to be tackled in a holistic manner and in the context of sustainable development objective working in partnership with the countries in the region. you, ms mcguinness, have rightly said that we need to look at the complexity of our supply chain. this is very true and challenging, but i can reassure you that this is exactly what we are doing. i work very closely with all my colleagues concerned to bring together environmental, agricultural, trade, health and climate aspects of deforestation. let me reassure you that the commission is not only providing significant technical and financial assistance to countries in the region to tackle these challenges, and that we talk to and listen carefully to the indigenous people who are directly impacted and at risk, as you, ms burkhardt and also ms matias, have mentioned. we are also working on domestic policies to reduce the eu’s own footprint on forests abroad, in addition, in close cooperation with the european external action service and the diplomatic services of eu member states. we are using all available diplomatic channels to engage on this important topic. the commission is already taking action to support efforts across the globe to tackle the root causes of deforestation and to protect the rights of indigenous people and local communities, which are threatened by land grabbing and deforestation. in this respect i look forward to the outcome of your future deliberations on the legislative initiative report by ms burkhardt, on the legal framework to halt and reverse eu—driven global deforestation after years of damages that cannot be repaired. and ahead of landmark international meetings, such as cop26 in glasgow and the convention on biological diversity (cbd) cop15 in kunming, it’s clear that we are at a critical junction to succeed. we need to scale up efforts towards preserving critical ecosystems such as forests, not only as a solution to climate change and biodiversity challenge, but also achieve sustainability and resilience. in reply to many of you who mentioned the government in brazil, we call on national authorities, including brazilian authorities, to take decisive action to address deforestation and to cooperate regionally and internationally to this end. we stand ready to provide technical assistance in order to ensure that deforestation decreases rapidly, substantially and permanently should there be a clear willingness for cooperation on this issue. let me agree also with mr ştefănuță, who reminded us that the problem of deforestation does not only exist abroad but also close to us in europe. i can only say to you that i am following closely developments in europe and i am determined to take strong action also at home. since many of you have mentioned free trade agreements, let me recall that all our modern free trade agreements contain ambitious, even if imperfect, provisions to promote trade and sustainable development. the fact that we conclude negotiations for an association agreement with the mercosur countries does not mean that we agree with all the policies of those governments in all areas, clearly not. but it is a way of having reciprocal binding commitments to the paris agreement as foreseen by the eu—mercosur agreement. it is a way of having dialogue and working with brazil and the other partners in the region to push and encourage each other to live up to the commitments we have made together in the paris agreement and to work together on the environmental issues. mercosur countries, including brazil, have included commitments on deforestation in their paris agreement pledges reinforced by private sector initiatives, such as that of brazilian meatpackers not to source meat from farms in recently deforested areas and the amazon soya moratorium, an independent brazilian multi stakeholder initiative. honourable members, to conclude, yes, there is still a lot of work to do and we will continue our work on the legislative proposal that we will present next year and i look forward to working closely with you on this important issue.
the next item on the agenda is the second round of voting. the voting is open from 1.45 p.m. to 3 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m.)
the next item is the third round of voting. the voting is open from now until 7 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. i declare the third round of voting open. you can vote until 7 p.m. the results of the third round of voting will be announced from this place at 9.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.35 p.m.)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 19 june 2020.
the final draft agenda (654.272/pdoj), drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 158, has been distributed. some amendments have been tabled. i should like to inform you that i have received two requests for the urgency procedure under rule 163 of the rules of procedure to add the following legislative documents during this part-session. the first concerns transitional arrangements to deal with the effects of the covid-19 crisis. the second concerns the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms for the treatment or prevention of coronavirus disease and the supply of such medicinal products. these requests will be voted on today at the first voting session. under the rules of procedure, only the authors of the petitions and a speaker opposing them, as well as the chairmen or rapporteurs of the committees responsible, may be heard. does anyone in the house wish to comment on the request for an emergency procedure on transitional arrangements to deal with the effects of the covid-19 crisis? no, no one is asking for the floor. does anyone in the house wish to comment on the request for urgent procedure on the conduct of clinical trials and the supply of medicines? i give the floor to ms kateřina konečná, who has asked to speak against this request.
mr president, the gue/ngl would, in the light of the crisis, be open to make an exception from our strict approach towards the gmos. nevertheless, our flexibility is not unconditional. to limit the possibility of misuse of the derogations of all safety obligations in the gmo legislation, we think it should be limited to only vaccines. the proposed derogation needs to be limited in time. according to the proposal, an environmental risk assessment may be delayed for up to several years, during which time the potential risk to human health and the environment will remain. finally, we stress that the public should be informed about the gmos being used in the trials. the dutch advisory body also calls this setting aside of gmo legislation and the authorisation of gmos without a prior environmental risk assessment irresponsible and disproportional. we strongly agree with them and i would like to urge all colleagues to oppose the use of the urgency procedure. thank you very much for your support.
following the consultations with the political groups, i would also like to put to the house a number of proposals for amending the final draft agenda. in view of the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes in separate and distinct parts, the votes were distributed over several voting sessions. information on the distribution of votes is available on parliament's website. the second vote on friday will be open from 2.15 to 3.30 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 6 p.m. the third vote on friday is adjourned. are there any objections? there are no objections, so the amendments are approved. (the order of business is as follows) finally, as regards the council's position on 'electronic freight transport information', i would inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the regulation. the proposed act is therefore deemed to be adopted.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the presentation of the german presidency's programme of work (2020/2667 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions.
the president of the council. mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen! i am pleased to be addressing the european parliament at the beginning of the german presidency of the council. like most of you, i've missed the face-to-face meetings, the face-to-face conversations, and for me, this is my first trip abroad since the pandemic broke out, and it brings me consciously and with full conviction to you, to the heart of european democracy. in these times, when the european union wants to survive this crisis in a stronger way, in these times we need the european parliament. the tasks ahead of us are enormous, and they require enormous effort. they need a parliamentary debate, they need political mediation, they need cultural translations into the different countries and regions. and that's why it needs you! it is therefore a particular honour for me to present to you today the priorities of the german presidency of the council. five themes are particularly important to me at this time: our fundamental rights, cohesion, climate protection, digitalisation and europe's responsibility in the world. these five issues are important because we must transform europe sustainably if we are to protect and preserve europe. only then will europe be able to play its own sovereign and responsible role, even in a rapidly changing global order. we are all aware that my visit today takes place against the backdrop of the greatest test in the history of the european union. the global coronavirus pandemic has also hit people in europe hard and relentlessly. we have over a hundred thousand dead in europe alone. many citizens were unable to say goodbye to their loved ones in the last hour due to the strict quarantine rules. this must not be forgotten in all the efforts to make a new start, in all the efforts to restore the economy: the mourning for the dead, the pain of the impossible farewells. it's going to be with us for a long time. our economy has been and is being seriously shaken across europe. millions of workers have lost their jobs, and in addition to the health and well-being of their families, many citizens are also concerned about their economic survival. they all need our collective support now. in order to break the chains of infection, the most basic of human rights had to be temporarily restricted. this was a very high price to pay, because generations of europeans have fought hard for these fundamental rights. human and civil rights are the most valuable asset we have in europe. and they can only be restricted for very good reasons and only for a very short time. a pandemic should never be an excuse to override democratic principles. each european country remembers its own historical upheavals, its own struggles for freedom and the rule of law, in a different way. and at the same time, it is precisely this achievement of fundamental rights that unites us in europe. for me, who has lived 35 years of my life in a system of unfreedom, restricting those rights in the midst of the pandemic was a decision that was infinitely difficult for me to make. in this historic phase, germany is now taking over the presidency of the eu council. this task fills me with respect, but also with great passion. because i believe in europe. i am convinced that europe is not only the legacy of the past, but also the hope and vision for the future. europe is not just something handed down to us, something destined to us, something we are obliged to do, but europe is something living that we can shape and change. europe does not take away our possibilities of action, but in a globalised world europe gives us some. we cannot preserve our convictions and freedoms without europe, but only with europe. and that is precisely what we need: more than ever, a focus on fundamental rights, and at the same time more than ever mutual support and community cohesion. europe will remain europe only if it can provide innovative responses to the challenges of climate change and digitalisation on this basis and if it can assume its responsibilities in the world. these are the big tasks, but i'm confident. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. or think of the refugee movements five years ago. it was never easy. that's always been the cause of injury. but even the most bitter crises have helped us to understand each other's needs and wants better. we learned together. europe has survived all these crises because in the end everyone was aware of what is indispensable: fundamental rights and cohesion. the rights of man and of the citizen, the inviolability of human dignity, the freedom of the individual to develop personally, politically and socially, protection against discrimination and disregard, not least equality not only claimed but realised : they form the ethical and political foundation on which europe rests. these are the rights that apply to everyone. they do not apply to some more and others less. they do not apply to some people all the time and to others only sometimes. they apply. this is the promise of europe that we must guarantee: that citizens are really free to live their religious beliefs, their cultural or political convictions, that they are free to pursue their ideas of happiness or the good life. democracy, including european democracy, lives on public critical debate. a democracy in which opposition voices are unwelcome, a democracy in which social or cultural or religious diversity is unwelcome, is not a democracy. the pandemic has made it all too clear how precious fundamental rights are, how elementary the freedoms they guarantee are. the protection of these fundamental rights is ensured by the european union's strong institutions: the european commission, the european court of justice and the european parliament. the first thing i want to do in this presidency of the council is to promote fundamental rights. the second principle which defines europe is that of our cohesion. because europe will emerge stronger from this crisis only if we are prepared to find common solutions - despite all our differences - if we are prepared to look at the world through the eyes of the other and to show understanding for the other's perspective. europe will be stronger after the crisis than before if we strengthen common sense. no one can get through this crisis alone. we are all vulnerable. european solidarity is not just a humanitarian gesture, it is a sustainable investment. european cohesion is not just something that is politically necessary, but something that will pay off. and that is the motto of our presidency: 'together'. making europe strong again. i will devote myself to this task with all my heart, together with the federal government. but i need you to do it. to protect this common sense in the eu, we need the parliament. because they are the mediators of the mutual understanding that we need to reach compromises. they represent almost 450 million citizens in 27 countries. they are the translators of european principles. they explain europe to the people and thus act as a link between brussels, strasbourg and their home regions. not only do you communicate in 24 languages, but you live with this diversity of perspectives and experiences. who else but you could explain to the people of europe the position of other member states? i therefore ask you, as the mediator and broker of cohesion, to support me in this difficult time. help us to deepen our mutual understanding of each other. help us to strengthen the cohesion of europe. the highest priority of the german presidency of the council is that europe emerges from the crisis united and strengthened. but we do not want to stabilise europe in the short term alone. we also want a europe that gives hope. we want a europe that is confident and courageous in facing the challenges of the present. we want a europe that is able to face the future, that is innovative and sustainable and that assumes its place in the world. we want a breakthrough for europe. the german-french initiative of mid-may is also of this conviction. i have proposed, together with french president emmanuel macron, a european reconstruction fund of 500 billion euros. i am pleased that the european commission is taking many aspects of this franco-german initiative into account in its proposal for the multiannual financial framework and the programme for development. the european council, chaired by charles michel, is currently discussing this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can't waste any more time. only the weakest would suffer. i very much hope that we can reach an agreement this summer. this will require a lot of compromise on all sides - including you. the situation is exceptional, indeed unique in the history of the european union. that is why germany has also committed itself to this extraordinary and unique effort of 500 billion. the european union must now also come together. i am convinced that the social dimension is as crucial as the economic one. a socially and economically just europe is crucial for democratic cohesion. it is the best recipe against all those who want to weaken our democracies and question our common ground. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. they are the future of europe and are particularly affected by the crisis. we therefore want to promote their development, inter alia, through a european youth employment agenda and actively support them on their way to working life, through a strengthened youth guarantee. we must not be naive. in many member states, the anti-europeans are only waiting to exploit the crisis for their own purposes. we must now show all of them where the added value of cooperation in the european union lies. we must show that a return to nationalism means less control, not more, and that only joint action as europe will protect and strengthen us. it is therefore right and important that the regions most affected by the crisis and, above all, the people who live there, can count on our solidarity. it's in our own best interests. but at the same time, the result always means that the effort now needed for the common good must not be imposed unilaterally on the economically strong member states, that each of us must put ourselves in the place of the other. so consider what each member state can and cannot do economically, socially and politically. i am asking you today, as a member of the european parliament, to support all of this. i am convinced that everyone is ready to show extraordinary solidarity in this crisis. germany is. the management of the pandemic and its consequences will be a key feature of our presidency. at the same time, we must also keep in mind the other major challenges of our time that still exist. these are the issues three, four and five which will be important for europe. first of all, the climate change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change, including the introduction of a new energy policy. she has spoken to you with force and has stressed that europe must act now if our planet is to remain viable. i too am convinced that a global solution to climate change is only possible if europe takes a leading role in climate protection. the european commission's green deal strategy is therefore an important guideline for us. by closely following them throughout our presidency, we will be able to achieve the transition to a carbon-neutral economy and society, a green economy with strong and innovative businesses - an economy that protects and enhances the natural livelihoods and competitiveness of europe for future generations. it is important to me that we establish europe's climate neutrality by 2050 in a legal way. i therefore welcome the european commission's consideration of reducing emissions by 50 to 55% by 2030 compared with 1990 as an intermediate step. we will also be supporting the work on the european climate protection law in this perspective. the other major challenge and the fourth point of particular importance to us during our presidency of the council is the digital transformation. it as well as climate action requires that we change our way of living and doing business in a sustainable way. this causes many people to fear the loss of familiarity, fear of the pace of change. and that's understandable too. but let me be very clear: our commitment to digitisation, like our commitment to climate change, does not mean that we abandon everything that is established and that we put the jobs of millions of europeans at risk. on the contrary, it is about a necessary transformation of our society that will provide more protection and more sustainability in the long term. the european union is a global player in the field of information technology. many of us have no doubt noticed this in the course of our daily digital interactions, be it with technology or services. it is important that europe becomes digitally sovereign. we want to make progress in key areas such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing, but also in building a trustworthy and secure digital infrastructure. but it is also crucial to effectively protect our democracies from cyber threats and disinformation campaigns. because a democracy needs a public sphere where knowledge and information can be shared, where citizens can exchange and agree on how they want to live. we're seeing it now: lies and disinformation are no more effective at fighting the pandemic than are hatred and incitement. the limits of populism that denies facts are shown. (applause from the centre) in a democracy, you need truth and transparency. this is what distinguishes europe, and germany will make a strong case for this in its presidency of the council. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. a look at the map shows that, in addition to britain and the western balkans, europe is surrounded by russia, belarus, ukraine, turkey, syria, lebanon, jordan, israel, egypt, libya, tunisia, algeria and morocco, among others. at the same time, we are living in a time of global upheaval, where the forces are shifting and europe is becoming more self-reliant, despite the involvement of many member states in the transatlantic alliance. we can and must decide for ourselves who europe wants to be in this rapidly changing world order. it is more important than ever that we are serious about europe, that we want a europe which preserves its freedom and its identity in times of globalisation. the need for a strong european foreign and security policy arises from this situation. the united kingdom is and remains an important partner. the shaping of our future relationship will be a major concern for us in the coming six months. the progress of the negotiations so far is, to put it mildly, clear. we have agreed with the united kingdom to speed up these negotiations in order to conclude an agreement in the autumn, which would then have to be ratified by the end of the year. i will continue to push for a good solution. but we should also take precautions in case an agreement does not come about. during our presidency we should do our utmost to make progress in three other areas of foreign policy, firstly in the accession conference with at least north macedonia and possibly albania - an important step towards the accession of the western balkan countries - and secondly in our relations with our neighbouring continent of africa and the african union, which we want to deepen in a forward-looking way at an eu-africa summit. this will continue to include issues of our cooperation on migration. there are more people on the run than ever before. we therefore have a special responsibility to make progress on a subject as central to europe as asylum and migration policy. this is a question that requires a great deal of political sensitivity, but we must not look the other way, but we must face this humanitarian and political task together. (applause from the centre) and last but not least, we will be concerned with our strategic relations with china, which are characterised by close commercial ties but also by very different socio-political views, especially in respect of human rights and the rule of law. even though the eu-china summit in september will unfortunately not be held, we want to continue the open dialogue with china. during the german presidency we will also continue our reflections on whether or not we want to stick to the unanimity principle in foreign and security policy matters and what lessons europe should draw from the coronavirus crisis, for example with a view to how europe's sovereignty in the health sector could be strengthened. we should also have this debate in the context of a conference on the future of europe. the commission has already proposed a new approach to the problem of the environment, which was proposed by the european commission last year and on which you have developed many ideas in your resolutions. i am in favour of a conference that focuses on a few issues, that delivers concrete results and brings citizens together for discussions in different member states. i have already spoken to the president of the european parliament, mr david sassoli, about this. mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! do we want europe? then it needs what i've been talking about today. then we need fundamental rights and cohesion. then we need answers to climate change and digitization. then europe must take responsibility for the world. then we must make europe greener, more digital and therefore more innovative and competitive. the european union must be the international voice of the rule of law and the international voice of innovation and sustainability. that is the vision for europe. let me close with a personal thought. i am a music lover, and so it is a great pleasure for me that a very special anniversary is taking place during our presidency of the council. in december 2020, the composer of the anthem of europe, ludwig van beethoven, would have turned 250 years old. i'm still filled with this ninth symphony over and over again. every time i listen to it, i discover something different in the music that strikes and impresses me, as does europe. it's something that can be rediscovered again and again, and it still amazes me. and so let me end today with the wish that the message of this music, the idea of brotherhood and harmony, will guide us in europe. what message could be more appropriate than this, that this europe is capable of great things if we support each other and stand together. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we look forward to the german presidency. the council presidencies are not elected, they are distributed according to a strictly defined pattern, and germany has indeed entered a phase that could not be more challenging. the expectations of the german presidency are high - i know that is depressing - but that is also a good thing, because it also shows that you are being trusted. the coronavirus crisis is challenging a lot of things: socially, economically, including our own sense of self, the way we see ourselves, and the way we see ourselves in relation to others. this is all happening behind the scenes, in a world where the structures that sustain us are also disintegrating. we think differently and in a new way about the value of solidarity and community, triggered by the corona crisis. we are thinking anew and differently about the great value of our common europe, which must be reworked every day. and yes, it was in the beginning that many looked inward, to the small and too little to the big and the common. but then we pulled ourselves together and saw with european eyes and felt with a european heart again. madam chancellor, thanks also to the contribution of germany in recent weeks, this spirit of responsibility for the whole is back in europe. in the face of this crisis, we are now hearing words and seeing actions from every corner of our continent that give us hope that we can do it together. what is good for europe is good for us. i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to support the european union's efforts to achieve a lasting peace and stability in the region. this is not a bad way to go if you are on the starting blocks of a council presidency which will be pioneering for the future of our union. the challenge ahead of you, the rotating presidency, and ahead of us all in the next six months, could not be more extraordinary. in the last six months, more than 100,000 lives have been lost in europe because of covid-19. we have entered the worst recession in almost 100 years. the summer forecast from yesterday shows a contraction of more than 8% this year, with only a partial rebound next year. this crisis is deeper and it is way broader than the one ten years ago. but the one ten years ago is still vividly present in our minds. some of our member states during that crisis endured sky-rocketing youth unemployment. they saw young people leaving their homes in droves in search of job opportunities elsewhere. they saw an unprecedented drop in public investment to historically low levels, all of which ultimately damaged public programs and public infrastructure severely. for many, this was a traumatizing experience. but it doesn't have to be that way. in other parts of our union the economy was supported by strong public investment from the very beginning of the crisis. people were able to stay in their jobs. this was when the concept of 'short-time working' was implemented on a large scale and this allowed some to come out of the crisis stronger than when they went in. we should draw lessons from this and this time we should do it together. if we do it right we can also emerge stronger from this crisis thanks to a common european purpose and thanks to next generation eu. and this presidency has chosen one word at the core of its programme gemeinsam, together, tous ensemble and thats the engine of our union. there are two points i want to emphasize. first of all, solidarity means that those who need it get more support. but what it does not incentivise is a lack of action, and that is why in next generation eu investment is linked to reforms based on our existing country-specific recommendation in the european semester. let me tell you each and every member state has homework to do. there is not one member state that does not have country-specific recommendations that should be linked as reforms to investment. if we want to come out stronger from this crisis, we must all change for the better. there is not a single member state that is exempt from that we must all change for the better. so this is what european people expect from us. they are certainly very different in their individual expectations, but are completely united in wanting to drink clean water, to breathe fresh air, to see their children grow up in nature. what they certainly don't want is that politics contributes to increased flooding, to heat waves, to droughts, to the loss of millions of species. this is a very real scenario in case of non-action and therefore economic recovery is inseparable from the european green deal, from digitalisation and from resilience. my second point is: do not neglect the core multiannual financial framework (mff), our seven-year budget over next generation eu. we need them both. (applause) i would like to thank next generation eu is for the acute crisis, but the mff is there to stay. it is the most important tool with which to implement our long-term goals research, innovation, migration, foreign policy, security, to name but a few. these policies need real european added value, and they need a strong seven-year budget to bring all that to life. all this has to be agreed now, in the next few weeks, to clear the way for all the other topics that we want to tackle. by the end of the year we will have to chart the path towards our goal of a climate-neutral europe. in september, we will propose the european union's new 2030 climate target, underpinned by a robust impact assessment and here, cooperation with the european parliament and the european council will be vital. so we want to aim to click the digital transition into a higher gear. ladies and gentlemen, during this presidency we will do our utmost to reach an agreement with the united kingdom on our new relations, while respecting our principles and preserving our european unity. it is important for me to maintain a strong transatlantic relationship, even though there are a lot of problems. the partnership with africa is at the heart of the german presidency's programme and at the heart of my programme. in the face of this virus, we must show that our partnership with africa does not exist only in good times, but that we are also in solidarity when the sky is falling. and we must also continue to work with china to build a more balanced partnership. finally, and most importantly, the time has come to open the conference on the future of europe. we all want to give the coup d'envoi as soon as the sanitary situation allows it. (applause from the centre) for all these questions, i am glad that we can rely on the experience of germany, starting with the european council next week. this is the moment to act together, and to repeat your motto: together. the european union is the world's largest economy, and its economy is the world's largest in terms of gdp.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, his name is francesco. he’s a junior doctor in a hospital in bergamo. he faced the question that no doctor should ever have to answer. he wants to save lives, but in this hospital there are no more beds available and he is forced to decide between life and death. at the same time, the neighbouring countries in europe block the export of protective masks. fear reigns, national self—interest triumphs and the neighbouring countries hang francesco out to dry. and it’s not just francesco. many people all over europe are asking themselves: ‘what happened to solidarity; where is europe when we need it the most’? hohe erwartungen liegen auf der deutschen ratspräsidentschaft, liebe frau bundeskanzlerin, liebe angela merkel. europa vertraut dir. wo andere trügerische stärke suchen, indem sie spalten, führst du zusammen. was für adenauer der staat der europäischen einheit, was für kohl der euro, das ist wahrscheinlich für deine kanzlerschaft jetzt der wiederaufbau europas nach der schweren corona-krise. ja, die deutsche ratspräsidentschaft darf keine fußnote der geschichte werden. es geht um nicht mehr und nicht weniger als um den zusammenhalt europas und die frage, ob die 20er-jahre gute jahre werden oder nicht. looking back at the last ten years, all people can see are the euro crisis, the migration crisis, the brexit crisis, and now the corona crisis. we are stumbling from one crisis to another, and why? because, all too often, we are led by fear and fear is the enemy of solidarity, fear is the enemy of the future and fear is the enemy of our freedom. look again to francesco. he was not led by fear. he showed courage, courage that we need in europe now more than ever before, courage to show solidarity, and the first important step is now the recovery fund. we need a solution this month. courage in the future. we cannot spend the money we borrowed from our children on the past. we need to build the future — climate, digital, industries — simply the most modern continent. courage to be fair. when you borrow money, you need to say honestly how to pay it back. does anybody here in this room seriously believe that you can pay the debts of the european union without digging into own resources? i think not, and that’s why we need a repayment plan before 2028 with, for example, a new digital tax. and courage to be free. europe is not a cash machine. europe is a union of shared values. the rule of law must be respected. (applause) and you referred to several other points in today’s introduction of the german presidency. we have to deliver on concrete solutions on migration, on brexit, on trade and a lot of other things. but, colleagues, i am afraid that this is simply not enough. seventy years ago robert schuman was confronted with even greater challenges. europe lay in ruins with millions dead, people displaced, hunger. nevertheless, schuman had the courage to look beyond the everyday events. he had faith in europe. today we also have an immense job to do. the digital revolution, a hostile russia, american in retreat and an assertive china are putting us to the test. the north pole is melting, australia is burning, and the liberal democracy, in which we all believe so strongly, is heavily under attack. yes, the everyday is testing us again, and again the question is whether we, like schuman, now have the courage to look beyond the everyday. and what is my question when i talk about ‘beyond the everyday’? i think we have to talk about identity. today we justify europe on the basis of small everyday success stories — roaming charges, no border controls, the euro, we build motorways, no foreign exchange rates, and so forth. but this perspective is quite an egotistic perspective. if europe delivers for me, then europe is good. if europe does not delivering for me, europe is bad. this is not enough anymore. this view of europe leaves francesco high and dry in the emergency room once again. no community can survive without community spirit, without shared beliefs, without its own identity, simply — i would mention it in epp terms — the european way of life, as you described it, madam chancellor: democracy, the independence of our courts, the prohibition of the death penalty, the social market economy and, above all, freedom. in the united states they still have the death penalty and no national health insurance, and in china there is no democracy and no freedom at all. our european way of life is unique and that makes us europeans. it is good to be a european and i am proud to say that i am a european. we need to rediscover our courage for the future, the courage to take the next step. solidarity will only last and our values will only win at the global level if we can create a shared community spirit. therefore, we need a truly european democracy that people can connect to. that is why we need to think big — like václav havel, helmut kohl and lech wałęsa to mention only a few. chancellor, i trust that the german presidency and you yourself will be up to the task: to deliver not just on the daily challenges but also, looking beyond, for the next step in european integration, building a living european democracy. yes to a truly european identity. yes to the european way of life. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to welcome you to this house, the home of european democracy. there are times in history when vision and courage are required, and this is one of them. that is why we have your experience and your german ability to forge consensus, beyond particular interests, to work for the general interest of europe. we have six months ahead of us which will determine the course of the union and we must use them to remedy the shortcomings which have become apparent in recent times. we must be able to react more quickly and more unitedly to crises and strengthen our strategic sectors and our resilience as a society. the next council to agree the recovery plan and the next budget will be decisive, yes. and that's why there's a lot of talk about money these days, but this is not a discussion of just numbers: this is a discussion of a political project. when robert schuman proposed the coal and steel community to konrad adenauer, he clearly understood its historical scope. it was not a technical or material project, but a moral responsibility towards the peoples of europe. the future of germany today still depends on the future of europe and vice versa. i ask you that in the next six months we work together to overcome the differences and divisions between north and south, between east and west; that we strengthen our union for the good of the citizens. let us show the world that it is possible to create a more just, sustainable society that thinks about the environment and future generations; a society of equality with women in leadership positions in all institutions; a society that values public policies, such as health or education; that protects workers; that demands fair wages; that values diversity and is able to manage migration flows with solidarity. this is all on his agenda, and he's counting on us to work it. what is clear is that the formulas of the past no longer apply and that we have to be bold. in my political group, together with my colleagues in the spd, we have worked on a roadmap towards a more efficient europe closer to the citizen. and so we have two major issues to deal with: on the one hand, own resources, in order to be able to solve transnational problems; and on the other hand, reconnecting with the citizens through the conference on the future of europe. we share european values, mr chancellor, and we therefore share our commitment to defending and implementing them.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam chancellor, as i listened to your speech, i was deeply moved. we both come from the same side of europe. we both experienced another europe, often called eastern europe, ravaged by decades of communist dictatorship and other totalitarian regimes. and many of us in this room come from this often overlooked part of the continent. but today we all want the same thing: a free, strong and prosperous europe. to do this, we must fight against disillusionment, discouragement and the decline of the european idea. we must be ambitious and relaunch a large number of european projects and projects, because only hope, as you said, will triumph over disillusionment. you spoke of the conference on the future of europe. the urgent need now is to adopt the recovery plan and the new multiannual financial framework. the latest forecasts from the european commission for our economy show us, once again, that we have no other choice. the future of europeans is at stake. and to give in to divisions now would be a historic mistake. i have no doubt that you will be on the side of the president of the council to forge a compromise as early as next week. i have told you of the emotion i felt while listening to you, but i cannot hide my concern from you either. you recently said that we must first have the money before we can talk about the rule of law. let me disagree with you on this point because we are not building europe on a purely accounting approach. europe is being built, as you said, around a project, a vision and solid values. today, too many european leaders continue to torpedo these projects and all that they stand for. and the perfect example is viktor orbán who is also a member of your political family but he is not the only one. it is time, madam chancellor, to twist the arm of those who want to reverse the course of history. it is time to start making eu funds conditional on respect for the rule of law. the political opportunity is clearly there. this unprecedented €1.8 trillion package must be used as leverage. stand with the europeans - all europeans - so that they can live in a free, just and prosperous world. you have the power, madam chancellor. don't let them down!
in writing. madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it is an important sign that you have come to brussels personally to present the programme for the german presidency of the council. after the pandemic crisis, we need common action at european level to make us all stronger. this year's crisis has shown us that the eu still lacks some visible features. the joint coordination came late. people often asked the question: 'where is europe?' we must now make decisions that will reshape our economy, the european single market, but also our health systems, our education systems and our diverse culture. this is also a legitimate demand of our citizens. we have great challenges ahead of us, but if we can learn from our past mistakes, we will create a better future. it is good to read that the presidency is committed to strengthening the european values. these values include the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples, traditional minorities who, as europeans, have contributed to our european diversity and culture for centuries. it is true that europe can only succeed if we work together, and i am quite sure that citizens who belong to a national, traditional minority must and will participate.
mr president, commissioner, dear german presidency of the council! i am concerned to see that over the years we have had a certain kindness on the part of the european commission towards member states which have become accustomed to not implementing money laundering directives. there have been no infringement proceedings at all in the case of the money laundering directive 3. in the case of the money laundering directive, a very significant number of member states have fallen short of the standards required by the money laundering directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we must be very strict in ensuring that there is the necessary transparency, the necessary publicity, or that the information is given to the authorities and those who have the economic right, that we can also uncover networks only if we really achieve the full implementation of the measures we have undertaken. i would like to ask the commission very sincerely that we really do follow up very strictly and that we do not tolerate any member states that do not do so.
mr president, eur 1.4 trillion. that’s one of the latest estimates of money laundering. it’s mind—boggling, it’s staggering and it’s a bloody shame. this is money stolen, illegally gained, and it’s taken from governments and people that need it the most. it is money that can be laundered and can be spent, thanks to our financial secrecy and thanks to opaque firms and funds, of which the owners are unknown. we need to shine a light on them and to bring them to justice. we need registries of ultimate beneficial ownership. it’s a shame that not all member states have implemented the last directive and that one member state has failed to create a registry. the result is that the ultimate source of eur 96 billion of russian investments in the netherlands is still unknown. so we need implementation of the current legislation, but we also need people to execute and supervise this. we need further harmonisation. i would like to encourage the commission and the member states to continue to fight for justice. this is what we need.
mr president, according to the united nations, the amount of money laundered globally in one year is between two and five percent of global gdp, meaning anywhere between usd 800 billion and usd 2 trillion. these are stunning numbers. fighting money laundering and fiscal paradises not only protects our economy, but saves lives and has a huge impact on large communities and whole countries deeply affected by organised crime. we have called on the commission numerous times to establish an eu supervisory body and an eu financial intelligence unit. we stressed the need for interconnected and high—quality registers of beneficial owners in the union and i would like to salute and welcome the commission’s action plan. we know, however, that member states have mostly failed to properly transpose amld 4 and 5. it is high time therefore for a regulation and for coordinated action. we need to translate our priorities into legislation and actively monitor implementation and results. one last essential thing that could have been better reflected in our resolution and more courageously reflected in the text is that we also need to look at our own backyard and look at our own avoidance, low taxation and secrecy jurisdiction issues. the tax justice network has just released a report showing that eu member states are losing around eur 27 billion in tax revenues to what it describes as an axis of avoidance due to profit shifting. so let’s start properly fighting money laundering in the union here and now.
in writing. – i support this resolution. according to the commission around 1%, or eur 160 billion, of the european union’s annual gdp is connected with suspect financial activity such as money laundering linked to corruption, among other things. that is a lot of money that could be used in a better way and help our societies recover from this crisis. we are aware of the problems identified in combating money laundering: fragmentation of rules, uneven supervision and limitations in the cooperation among financial intelligence units across the eu member states. better cooperation is needed. we know what we have to do to improve the situation. the resolution welcomes the ec action plan launched in may. we should increase pressure to implement all six pillars of the eu action plan for a comprehensive union policy on preventing money laundering and terrorism financing. the ec committed to deliver all of the six actions by early 2021. let me finish and add that as a former career journalist, i very much welcome the paragraph of the resolution calling on member states to fully investigate in a transparent manner cases of money laid and related crime against whistle—blowers and journalists. in particular, the resolution refers to the maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia and the panama papers revelations.
my dear officer. can we be happy in our european union when access to healthcare often depends on where you were born? can we have a united and healthy europe in the future if health care is not a strategic sector for us? as a hungarian, as a socialist, as a member of the s&d, i am working to give their children a european future, which is about the european health union. because in my country, for example, we cannot have a future where a hungarian is three times more likely to die from a hospital infection than in germany; where we have six nurses per 1,000 inhabitants in hungary, and 12 in germany. we need a europe that is also united in giving all its citizens the opportunity to live, because that is a human right. health is a human right. that's what this program is about. support that with the minimum requirements and all the rest. we're not taking away powers from the member states, we're giving health to our members.
mr president, commissioner, happiness depends on freedom and freedom depends on courage. that's what thucydides said. at this moment, european citizens, unfortunately, are neither happy nor free, precisely because we have not yet won the fight against covid-19. i want to give them, to make their situation better by giving them a solid european health programme. commissioner, i am concerned about the budget situation of the eu4health programme, which comes 85% from that next generation eu and about which there are now certain suspicions from the council's legal service. commissioner, i am also concerned that there are member states where hospitals - as mr ujhelyi said - are totally outdated and there are others where hospitals have five-star rooms. i'm also concerned that there are so many people watching us now who, while not suffering from covid-19, are suffering from chronic illnesses and can't go to the hospital. i believe we have the opportunity to do, to contribute to the happiness of european citizens by giving them the best health in the world - european health.
in writing. – the covid-19 pandemic has brought on suffering and grief to hundreds of thousands of people in europe and around the world. it has shown us the limited capacities and pre-existing structural issues of national health systems. in doing so, the pandemic has served as a catalyst for much needed eu-wide health care policies and reforms. of course, the eu public health strategy should respect the fact that financial resources and competences in the health sector are mainly at the national level. however, health threats do not stop at borders. there are many steps the eu can take to better prepare for future crises and to ensure the health and well-being of our citizens: a health in all policies approach; increased funding for health research and innovation, hospital infrastructure and health services; strengthening cross-border healthcare cooperation and adequate human resources healthcare capacity throughout the eu. the eu should also decrease its dependency on third countries for critical medicine, ventilators, ppe and ensure strategic autonomy of its supply chains. lastly, we must recognise the tremendous potential of big data and ai in taking health care to the next level by allowing researchers and medical professionals to collaborate and make more informed decisions.
in writing. once we have overcome the covid-19 crisis, it is imperative to ensure the implementation of the 2011 cross-border healthcare directive, which sets out the conditions under which a european patient can access healthcare services in a union country other than his or her home country. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the directive on the health of patients, in particular the impact of the directive on the health of patients, and the impact of the directive on the health of patients. health can be considered a fundamental right in accordance with articles 2 and 35 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and i therefore call on the commission to ensure the uniform implementation of this directive at european level.
mr president, mr vice-president borrell, yesterday in this house, the german chancellor, mrs angela merkel, told us that one of our priorities must remain the defence of europe's fundamental values. fundamental rights are a value for which we cannot negotiate anything, and it is unacceptable that we in europe have a dictator beside us who persecutes the very citizens who defend and fight for the same values that we defend. that is why it is absolutely necessary, mr. high representative, that you act firmly to sanction this regime that persecutes people who believe in democracy, in freedom, in the rule of law. we must take better care of belarus, because the europeans there deserve a different fate.
madam president, dear colleagues, well, we have failed our roma citizens. we have failed collectively as member states and as eu institutions. after one decade of roma strategies, please remember only one figure: every third roma child lives in a home where someone went to bed hungry at least once in the previous month. denying this will not help. ancient greeks told us ‘to err is human, but to persist is diabolical’. the european union can provide the necessary encouragement, structure and coordination to the member states to move away from the institutional and political inaction. in central and eastern europe, we need to give the highest priority to address hunger, extreme poverty and severe housing deprivation among roma. the second most endorsed policy should be education strategies for roma, including vocational training and adult learning. the third would be better access to the labour market. in all our societies, we need to do more to fight discrimination, to inform the public about the vulnerability of roma, to reduce prejudices – all this is about education.
in writing. the srebrenica massacre was the worst event in european history since the end of world war ii. it is our duty to ensure the protection of civilians from military fury and to prevent any hint of potential genocide. we must never forget the more than 8,000 people who were executed, their lives brutally extinguished in a conflict fuelled by nationalist passions. let srebrenica be a reminder of the dangerous ultra-nationalism and xenophobia in our modern history, even so close to the borders of the european union.
in writing. – the revised mff proposal lacks ambition and strategic vision in relation to the cultural and creative sectors. the commission proposal not only is far from doubling the budget of creative europe as requested by the ep but it even decreases the budget compared to its initial proposal from 2018. this is unacceptable for a programme that proved to be effective and with clear european added value and is seriously underfinanced. the commission highlights that in the first quarter of 2020 the loss in turnover for the ccss is expected to be 80% – one of the highest of all sectors. the ccs would need at least eur 6 billion out of the eur 750 billion of next generation eu to start the recovery. therefore, why is this money needed for ccs not clearly earmarked in the proposed recovery plans? the cultural and creative sectors employ 8.4 million workers in the eu, nearly half of which are young people. we must ensure that the additional funds available under the cohesion instrument react—eu (eur 55 billion) devoted to support workers in regions and sectors most affected by the pandemic reach cultural operators. there will be no real recovery for europe if culture is left behind.
the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the role of cohesion policy in the face of the socio-economic consequences of covid-19 by younous omarjee, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000035/2020 - b8-0000/0000) (2020/2644 ((rsp)) will continue.
author. mr president, madam commissioner, dear elisa ferreira, colleagues, the face of europe is disfigured by the covid-19 crisis. all regions of europe are badly affected, unemployment is on the rise again, bankruptcies are on the increase, the real economy has been hit hard, no sector is spared, no region is spared and the economic forecasts are rather catastrophic. this crisis is a stark indication of our fragility. europe is at this important moment when recovery is not an option, it is an imperative and, more than ever, european institutions and policies must stay the course, stay the course of principles and stay the course of cohesion. in the midst of the health catastrophe, we must remember that the only european policy that has been able to help all the member states is cohesion policy. it has helped to set up parttime work schemes for employees, to purchase equipment for hospitals, and to help smes. our committee on regional development and the european parliament have played their full part and have lived up to their responsibilities by adopting the regulations as a matter of urgency, and we have begun the legislative work on react-eu. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. and we are now waiting for those words to be translated into action and to become a reality. and we expect the european council to live up to the promises and expectations at the next summit. the proposed funding, madam commissioner, in the new next generation eu instrument is a step in the right direction, even though our parliament was expecting more funds. however, cohesion policy remains heavily affected by the new mff proposal and is down by 12% compared to the 2014-2020 programming. we must remember that cohesion policy plays a central role in all regions of europe. it is a field policy with a footing in the real economy and therefore adequate support is absolutely necessary in order not to compromise its long-term objectives. greater flexibility and simplification are expected, and we will be at your side to facilitate both of these objectives. if, between the day of our oral question and today, answers have been given, it must be admitted, many questions remain. we will be very vigilant to ensure that the management of the 350 billion in the recovery fund, through, we hope, essentially subsidies, is aimed at the objectives of cohesion. we therefore ask you, commissioner, what place the commission really intends to give to cohesion in the recovery. and how will the european semester direct these funds to respect the principles of cohesion, i.e. giving priority to regions that are both less developed and those that have been heavily impacted by the crisis? how will the european semester also target the regions, groups and sectors most in need of assistance in the context of the recovery plan to ensure that island and outermost regions are not left behind? finally, as all member states are going to go into debt for the recovery, how does the commission intend to exclude cohesion policy expenditure for the period 2021-2027 from the stability and growth pact? and in conclusion, commissioner, i would say that we all hope for a good agreement in the council. if this agreement is a deal that satisfies parliament, then our committee on regional development and all the rapporteurs will take responsibility for negotiating it by the end of the year, so that 2021 is not lost.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for your invitation today. you gave me a vote of confidence in the past to work for stronger economic, social and territorial cohesion in our union, and to support the regions in facing the challenges of today and tomorrow. today, these challenges are even greater. in this week’s economic forecast presented by the commission, it is yet again clear that the economic impact of this crisis will be bigger than expected. the recovery next year will be weaker than initially foreseen. the downside risks are considerable. divergence, asymmetry and fragmentation still hang over our union. it is a critical moment, then. will we, collectively, find the political will and demonstrate the leadership to put an ambitious european recovery plan into action? half of the work is done. the european commission has put an unprecedented ambitious recovery package on the table. most importantly, it has put cohesion and solidarity at the heart of its package. this house was crucial in reaching this point. thank you to all of you. the two resolutions, supported by a large majority of the political forces, have called for a bold proposal. there may still be issues to fine-tune, but this is part of the democratic process. the crucial thing is that institutional negotiations cannot linger. we must strike an agreement on both recovery instruments powered by the next generation eu under the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-2027 in full respect of the community method. we must understand that every day lost without action is a life, a job, a business lost without concrete support. as you correctly mentioned – et merci de l’avoir fait – cohesion is essential to counter the emerging disparities across and within member states, to guarantee the level playing field essential for the internal market to function, and to provide the investments needed for the green and digital recovery. we were quick to act. we acted with the support of parliament and of the committee on regional development (regi) and the committee on budgets (budg). the two coronavirus response investment initiatives enabled mobilisation of some eur 50 billion of cohesion funds. this has allowed us to buy masks and ventilators, to keep people in jobs, to give cash-starved businesses a lifeline, and to give liquidity support to squeezed public budgets. this was an emergency. however, more is now needed. overall, the recovery package brings eur 100 billion in addition to the cohesion funds. half of this will come from react-eu: a eur 55 billion instrument to provide immediate and flexible support in 2020, 2021 and 2022 for health, small and medium-sized enterprises, workers, and green and digital projects. it comes on top of the current and the next mff and acts as a bridge between the two periods. the other instrument, the just transition fund, on which parliament was also very active and vocal will now deliver some eur 40 billion for those people and regions that will suffer the most from the transition to a carbon neutral economy. we also proposed a eur 10 billion mid-term top-up in 2024 to capture the long-term effects of the crisis at regional level. in 2021-2027, cohesion policy should continue to deliver on its treaty objectives to promote convergence and support the least-developed parts of the union, and it will have the task of putting the european priorities in action on the ground in every region, ensuring a green and digital transition that leaves no one behind. however, it can only do that with a stable financial framework in place. therefore, we need a decision at the european council in the next few days and an agreement with parliament right after. i will do my utmost to work with you, with the member states, with regions, with civil society, to get an agreement on the several cohesion proposals on the table. we have to make sure that cohesion policy continues to deliver – now, tomorrow and in the long-term. for the sake of a resilient and fair recovery and for the sake of a stronger union. thank you. i look forward to the debate and our continued work.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, chancellor angela merkel recently stressed the importance of the concern for european cohesion as one of the key priorities of the german presidency of the european council. to maintain and strengthen our cohesion, we need to strengthen europe's most important investment policy cohesion policy. otherwise we shall soon be talking about the politics of european corrosion. europe's benchmark is to heal ourselves together, and our economies together. if we cannot now be truly solidarity in the face of the death and suffering of our fellow men, in the face of economic bankruptcy, then in the face of what can we be solidarity? europe's citizens and companies are in dire need of money from the multiannual budget, they need money from the recovery package, correlated convergent with the budget. we are distancing ourselves from each other, but we can no longer keep money away from europe's pressing needs. member states expect the european commission to take explicit transitional measures to ensure that the €37 billion from the structural and investment funds is absorbed. we cannot offer europe an inflation of financial promises and compromises on paper without real money, without properly estimated and regulated revenues in time. europe needs a budget now.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank everyone for the support given to the commission in all the different moments and difficult moments that we have been going through. first of all, i would like to start by quoting what mr heide mentioned, that the cohesion policy is the beating heart of europe. i think it is, and i think it was beating when europe was in trouble, when europe was suffering. et je vous remercie, monsieur omarjee, de votre référence au travail qu’on a fait ensemble pour avoir une réponse immédiate au problème du coronavirus. i would like also to say that, in fact, this opportunity, for all those that mentioned that there was really the need to go to specific situations, to the people, that in fact these flexibilities that became available in the context of the response by the coronavirus response investment initiative (crii) and crii+ have already been used by almost all eu member states. for the time being, all member states, with the exception of austria and denmark, have been using these transfers, this possibility to use the available funds – a maximum of over eur 50 billion – in order to pay what has been paid: the masks, the ventilators, the support jobs and to support small and medium enterprises and to give an immediate answer. so, for all those that used to say that the cohesion policy is an old policy, i think we have proven that it is quite alive and quite capable of delivering emergency aid when it is needed. actually, with state aid it was almost the only financing policy. i mean it’s not the only one, but it is the biggest one, and the most visible one. my second point is on the quality of what we have proposed. yes, we had to propose a long—term kind of action that combines a short—term instrument, react—eu, with all the flexibilities and keeping the possibility of a co—financing of up to 100% if member states so decide. of course, for practical reasons react—eu cannot be distributed immediately by the commission at the level of each region because we are distributing the envelope on the basis of actual data, and by the end of the summer we will not have the data at the regional level. but it is up to the member states to transfer the same criteria that for the commission is the drop in gdp, drop in growth, the increase in unemployment, including youth unemployment, and the relative prosperity of the country in order to have a follow—up, a bridge to the next multiannual financial framework that really can help the regions to bridge these differences. but we hope and we are very attentive to the quality and the criterion that member states will be using in this distribution. (i am also trying to answer your question, mr omarjee.) having said this, i would just like to add that, yes it is important that we now take the commission’s proposal as the real basis. i think we should stop saying that there is not enough money, i think there is a lot of money and here i quote mr nienaß and others: we have got to see what we want to do with this money and the quality of what we’ll be doing, because the quality of what we’ll be doing determines our future. sendo assim, e em particular para o sr. ferreira que referiu a potencial quebra de fundos, não há quebra de fundos. os fundos do mff têm, neste momento, de ser contabilizados com os outros instrumentos adicionais que estão a ser propostos pela comissão e eles são, de facto, 55 mil milhões de euros para o react-eu, um extra de 32,5 mil milhões de euros para o fundo de transição justa e um valor de 10 mil milhões de euros que virão no ano de 2020 a ser distribuídos de acordo com os dados efetivos de quebra de rendimento e aumento de desemprego das regiões da europa. portanto, são mais 100 mil milhões de euros. penso que, neste momento, o que importa é que, rapidamente, nós tenhamos uma clara ideia e uma clara capacidade de organizar o que queremos fazer, de fazer e organizar o modo como se pode fazer a implementação na prática e no bom sentido das oportunidades que estão a ser criadas. i’m very proud that the commission was so blunt and so strong in this proposal. this could only be done because you were here and you were putting on pressure. this could only be done because also, at the level of certain governments, there was this impulse for us to act. so, let’s work together and let’s very quickly decide the approval, with fine—tuning, with better quality here and there, but that quickly, we move forward so that the money is, as all of you were saying, available – with continuity, not stopping – and directed to a green, to a digital, to a modern recovery, that is shared by all the regions and all citizens in europe. so, this is what we have at this moment on the table. let’s work together as institutions to deliver what the citizens are expecting us to deliver in such a critical and difficult moment in the history of europe. thank you very much. let’s go on working together and yes, of course, we are always attentive to the regions that are most in difficulty. we have proven it, so let’s work together and let’s help citizens wherever they are because they all need to be part of our common future.
commissioner, thank you very much for your intervention and your work. it is not every day that we hear a commissioner say 'there is a lot of money'. we all await the council's decisions with expectation, but we also remember that this european parliament has the last word and has already made its position clear in defence of cohesion policy. i thank you all for coming and participating. the debate is closed. the sitting was adjourned until 1:30 p.m. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. chancellor angela merkel recently underlined the importance of concern for european cohesion as one of the key priorities of the german presidency of the european council. to maintain and strengthen our cohesion, we need to strengthen europe's most important investment policy - cohesion policy. otherwise we shall soon be talking about the politics of european corrosion. the benchmark of europe's ambition is to heal ourselves and our economies together. if we can't really be solidarity in the face of death and suffering of our fellow human beings, in the face of economic collapse, then what are we solidarity in the face of? europe's citizens and businesses are in dire need of money from the multiannual budget and the recovery package. we are distancing ourselves from each other, but we can no longer keep money away from europe's pressing needs. member states expect the european commission to take explicit transitional measures to ensure that the €37 billion from the structural and investment funds is absorbed. we cannot offer europe an inflation of financial promises and compromises on paper, without real money, without properly estimated and regulated revenues in time. europe needs a budget now. of the 1.8 trillion euros we are talking about.
in writing. the crisis of the coronavirus pandemic has shown in a very visible way the importance and strategic need for cohesion policy. it was through this policy that, literally in the days after the pandemic escalated, we were able to provide the first much-needed support to governments and businesses in extremely difficult circumstances. it was thanks to cohesion policy that the hospitals received emergency aid at that time. let me remind you that in a matter of days, 37 billion euros have been mobilised for emergency aid. however, i would urge the european commission and the member states to keep in mind the priority of cohesion policy, its role as the european union's main investment policy and the need to level the playing field between european regions, when thinking about the future of cohesion policy. in the planned actions, we must focus not only on the current and undoubtedly urgent crisis response, but also be prepared for post-crisis recovery, when the investments made through cohesion policy will be essential to get the economy back on the growth path. this requires a sufficiently large budget. i also point out that the commission must propose a contingency plan in the event that agreement on the new regulations on the structural funds is not reached within the deadline, in order to avoid disruption to the functioning of cohesion policy from the beginning of next year.
in writing. unfortunately, the long-term socio-economic effects of a prolonged pandemic are already a fact of life and will continue to be felt for some time to come. our job now is to focus on stopping them so we can return to the expected normalcy. cohesion policy is a very effective and proven tool for reducing socioeconomic inequalities in the eu, which have intensified again during the crisis. i am therefore convinced that cohesion policy should play a key role in the plan for the renewal of europe. in view of the complications caused by the pandemic and the extraordinary measures taken in this regard, it appears impossible to adopt all the new regulations on the esif in a timely manner. i therefore call on the european commission to introduce the necessary transitional provisions to avoid complications and further administrative burdens for member states and their entities. i also think it is appropriate to introduce even greater simplification and procedural flexibility at least until the end of the union's recovery from the economic crisis. it should also be ensured that the measures programmed under traditional cohesion policy are not permanently redirected directly to tackling the effects of the pandemic. these must therefore be new measures that will not be used to the detriment of the original objectives of eu cohesion policy. i also think it is appropriate to consider creating an emergency reserve for similar events in the future.
in writing. the most important message of the corona crisis is that we can only find answers to the challenges we face together. the outbreak has affected all regions of the union severely. the number of sick, the number of dead, varies from region to region. but the economic impact is equally devastating everywhere. member states try to do what they can with their money and the ability of their leaders. but the differences are spectacular. the german, french and austrian governments have pledged unlimited support. the south is making a considerable effort, the slovaks, the czechs, the baltic states. and there's a country where there's no substance behind the promises. the hungarian government has been denying any help from the european union since the crisis began. meanwhile, you're courting china, and instead of medical supplies, you're buying them incredibly expensive, useless bowls for the benefit of corrupt hungarian politicians. the only hope for my countrymen is the eu's actions. the release of cohesion funds, the sure fund for job protection and the 750 billion euro reconstruction programme. i ask the commission to give priority to the weaker regions even in times of crisis. the hungarian government should also be required to use cohesion funds strictly to protect small businesses and jobs. strictly control the content of the development programs for 2021-2027 and make sure that the money goes to the municipalities, small businesses instead of the thieving oligarchs. if necessary, directly from brussels.
ladies and gentlemen, not here in the chamber, but probably on the screens in the office. the meeting is resumed. we are now going to the second round of voting. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting will take place from 2.15 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. and the same voting procedure will be used as this morning. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3.30 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced at 6 p.m. i have no other announcements. (the sitting was suspended at 2.17 p.m.)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 10 july 2020.
following the conclusions of the extraordinary european council meeting of 17-21 july 2020, i have decided, in conjunction with the conference of presidents and in accordance with rule 154 (4), to convene this extraordinary session at 9.30 a.m. today, so that parliament can discuss and express its position on the recovery plan and the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the extraordinary european council meeting of 17-21 july 2020 (2020/2732(rsp)).
mr president, before we start with the debate on the outcome of the european council, i want to bring one very urgent issue to the attention of plenary, and that is the situation in the mediterranean sea. we saw the military actions from the turkish side, we also saw the decisions on the hagia sophia, which is an example of religious chauvinism that such a symbol and as a monument of peace and reconciliation is now changed. those are actions from the turkish side. i want to underline that this is not only a greek–turkish issue, it is not only a cyprus–turkish issue, it is a european–turkish issue and that’s why the presence of president michel and president von der leyen, we want to underline that we have to give clear signals that we stand on the side of our citizens in greece and in cyprus. and i think we should keep the dialogue open, no doubt about this, but now it is the time to act, probably also to consider sanctions against turkey. we have to act and we have to act now, i want to bring this to the attention of the plenary.
i would ask the members who are seated to wear their masks as required by our rules.
president of the european council. – mr president, four days and four nights! these were complex negotiations on very complex issues. we agreed on the recovery package and the european budget, and this moment, it’s my conviction, is pivotal in european history. we acted fast and with urgency. in less than two months, we hammered out a deal of more than eur 1.8 trillion and this response is massive. compared to the size of its economy, europe’s response is greater than that of the united states or china. in fact, this agreement is a first in many ways. this is the first time in european history that you agreed to borrow collectively to finance expenditure. it’s also the first time, the first time that our budgetary funds are connected to our climate ambition. and, it’s the first time our budget will be directly linked to the rule of law. i am convinced that europe is a force for action. today i stand before you with that agreement in hand, endorsed by unanimity by all 27 leaders. everyone had to give something in order to get something. it’s a strong and ambitious deal for europe, and for europeans it is fair, balanced and ground-breaking. why? because it will boost our three common goals: convergence, resilience and transformation. on the recovery fund, first, the next generation eu is a one-off measure to address the impact of covid-19 and i would like to stress that the total size of the recovery fund is eur 750 billion. eur 390 billion in grants, and eur 360 billion in loans. and these funds will be targeted at the hardest hit regions and sectors. it targets of 30% of the mmf and the recovery fund to fight climate change and we will make sure the recovery fund money is well spent by ensuring it is backed by solid governance. sur le budget, nous décidons de proposer 1 074 millions d’euros. je souligne l’engagement, la mobilisation, le souhait de réussir avec ces moyens, de poursuivre les efforts pour réduire les disparités sur le plan européen, de renforcer la convergence et d’engager la transformation, qui est si nécessaire et si urgente. je mesure bien, sur la question du cfp – certains d’entre vous auront très certainement l’occasion de le souligner –, les réductions par comparaison à la proposition de la commission. je veux aussi de mon côté, pour amener de la nuance dans le débat, regarder le point de départ. le point de départ, c’est l’argent qui, aujourd’hui, est dépensé chaque année pour chacune des politiques mises en œuvre par l’union européenne. quand on fait la comparaison avec aujourd’hui, on voit que cfp et plan de relance ensemble, ce sont chaque fois des moyens supplémentaires par rapport à la situation actuelle, qui sont mobilisés dans différents domaines: dans le domaine numérique, dans le domaine d’horizon europe, dans le domaine d’erasmus. enfin, nous proposons de mettre en place une réserve spéciale en lien avec le brexit parce que nous prenons en considération le fait qu’avec ou sans accord, en toute hypothèse, il faudra soutenir les pays et les secteurs qui seront plus directement affectés par les conséquences économiques de ce brexit. je mesure bien qu’il y a un thème qui mobilise beaucoup d’attention, ici, et il en a mobilisé aussi durant le sommet; il s’agit de la question des rabais, ces mesures correctrices. il est vrai que ces rabais ont été maintenus pour un pays, augmentés pour quatre autres pays, et il est vrai que cela faisait partie de l’accord global, parce qu’il y avait cette situation exceptionnelle, la nécessité de mobiliser des moyens dans le cadre du plan de relance. l’accord politique a donné lieu à cette partie de décisions, que je veux souligner également. j’en viens maintenant à la question des ressources propres. nous avons eu beaucoup de débats formels et informels avec cette assemblée, en lien avec cette question très centrale, parce que nous considérons que les ressources propres peuvent représenter un tournant dans la manière dont l’europe envisage son avenir, et pour laquelle, je pense pouvoir le dire, nous avons donné lieu à des avancées peut-être même au-delà de ce qui était imaginable il y a quelques semaines encore, en indiquant de manière précise un calendrier politique et, surtout, je veux le mettre en évidence, en apportant un point supplémentaire par rapport à la proposition initiale de la commission: cette idée que nous allons démarrer le remboursement sous le cfp qui vient et pas sous le suivant, ce qui est un moyen extrêmement puissant sur le plan politique pour encourager la décision. cela nous engage et cela engagera, je l’espère, le parlement. cela engagera également les chefs d’état et de gouvernement. je pense qu’il y a là, que ce soit sur la question de mesures carbone aux frontières, sur la question numérique, sur les transactions financières, sur la question du système ets ou sur la question des déchets plastiques, il y aura de la matière pour le débat démocratique, politique au sens noble du terme, dans le cadre de la démocratie européenne, mais également très certainement dans le cadre des parlements nationaux, et c’est une bonne chose. car, au-delà de ce débat-là, ce sont des questions centrales sur l’orientation que l’on veut pour l’union européenne qui seront posées. ensuite, la question du rôle du parlement européen, qui est, naturellement, une question essentielle. je mesure bien qu’elle sera très certainement débattue ici, au-delà de ce qui est déjà prévu dans le cadre institutionnel et du rôle du parlement dans le cadre du travail législatif et du rôle par conséquent pour la pièce maîtresse, qui est le rrf, le recovery and resilience fund. pour d’autres programmes de dépenses, nous avons proposé, c’est le paragraphe 11 de nos conclusions, qu’il y ait le partage conjoint du contrôle politique, conseil et parlement européen, dans le cadre du contrôle annuel sur les dépenses, et je ne doute pas que nous prolongerons les discussions sur ce sujet. enfin, je veux mettre en évidence un point qui me tient à cœur, un point qui doit nous tenir à cœur. cela fait maintenant cinq ans que j’ai la responsabilité de siéger au conseil européen, d’abord comme premier ministre belge, maintenant en capacité de président du conseil européen. et pour la première fois en cinq ans, nous avons eu ce week-end un très long débat autour de la table, les 27 chefs d’état et de gouvernement, les yeux dans les yeux, sur la question de l’état de droit, des valeurs fondamentales. le débat que nous avons eu doit être non pas un point d’aboutissement, mais une étape, une étape importante, une étape utile, et c’est en cela que je me réjouis que ce qui vous est présenté inscrit ce lien, cette conditionnalité, entre la question financière et la question de la gouvernance, la question de l’état de droit. chacun devra jouer son rôle: la commission, naturellement, dans le cadre des institutions; le parlement européen; mais aussi le conseil européen qui, dans le cadre de la responsabilité de mener le débat d’orientation politique, n’échappera pas non plus à la nécessité de revenir régulièrement sur ce sujet-là. je veillerai à ce que ce thème central, ce thème vital, fondamental pour l’agenda européen, reste au centre du débat démocratique. mesdames et messieurs, je conclus en vous disant ceci: il y a quelques jours nous avons basculé au-delà de 600 000 décès dans le monde, liés au covid-19. le covid-19 nous a bousculés, le covid-19 nous a ébranlés. il a bousculé la manière dont nos sociétés démocratiques fonctionnaient. nous avons dû nous résoudre à ce qui était impensable quelques mois auparavant: restreindre drastiquement les libertés personnelles, les libertés fondamentales, mettre le système de santé terriblement à l’épreuve. j’en suis totalement convaincu: le monde après le covid-19 doit être différent, il doit être plus engagé, plus solide et plus ancré dans cette exigence d’humanité qui nous rassemble chacune et chacun. l’accord que je vous présente aujourd’hui est, à mes yeux, un accord qui, bien sûr, porte sur des questions financières, mais c’est bien plus que cela, en réalité. c’est bien plus que cela car, à travers le débat qui est ouvert maintenant, c’est le sens, la direction que nous voulons donner pour les prochaines années à ce projet européen qui est à l’ordre du jour. je pense que ce moment est historique, et je vais faire preuve d’un soupçon de romantisme. je crois que par cette décision extraordinaire, le fait de décider qu’on allait mobiliser un agenda solide pour les ressources propres, de décider qu’on allait consentir un emprunt ensemble pour investir et pour réformer, en quelque sorte, ce que nous avons fait, c’est renouveler pour 30 ans nos vœux de mariage sur le plan européen. c’est l’unité européenne qui a été affirmée et, plus que jamais, je pense que ce que nous envoyons comme signal aux européens est un signal de confiance, de robustesse, de solidité. le signal que nous envoyons au reste du monde, c’est que l’europe est présente, l’europe est solide, l’europe est debout.
president of the commission. six hundred thousand six hundred thousand victims of this killer virus! six hundred thousand lives ended too soon! six hundred thousand stories written only halfway! 600,000 families today are incomplete! these 600,000 people will always be present in our memories and in our hearts. and we know that it's not over, unfortunately. not yet, but... behind this sad procession, we see the terrible impact on our economy. our citizens, our workers, our businesses, everyone is suffering and everyone is struggling. this pandemic struck us at the beginning of the year, and let us remember those days, those curves of sickness that rose, the number of deaths that rose, the divisions between our countries that threatened! we heard hurtful criticism, words that divided north and south, east and west, debates about "corona bonds" that ended with fists clenched and fingers pointed. the situation was bleak and there were few options. and the few solutions put on the table were intergovernmental, that is to say, outside the european framework, without a community method, without a european parliament and, i remind you, we were also at odds over our european budget, two years after our proposal! that is why the european commission has put forward a european proposal to avoid the reflexes and mistakes of the past. a european proposal for a european recovery we all know that europe is not out of the woods yet. but europe can see now dawn turning into light. this week, not only taboos and perceptions have been cast aside, but one big watershed for our union has been crossed. by standing united 27 member states backing the commission we raise money on the capital market to fight the worst economic crisis ever together. in next generation eu, we now have a unique recovery tool worth eur 750 billion. eur 750 billion to support the hardest hit. eur 750 billion to boost our single market. eur 750 billion to invest in the european green deal, in digitisation and the modernisation of our single market and resilience. of course, 27 countries agreeing something on this scale and of this unique nature is a challenge. it takes courage, political will and, of course, give and take. it was never going to be easy. but, anything worth having is always worth fighting for! and i thank you, charles, for the excellent cooperation and the trustworthy management. thank you very much for that. and look at how far europe's fighting spirit has taken us. it is not long ago that some asked for no grants loans only. but today we have an agreement that next generation eu will have eur 390 billion in grants, topped by eur 360 billion in loans. and yes, there are fewer grants than the commission and the parliament argued for, but from where we started, this is a huge achievement. and this is big enough to make an enormous difference. it will invest in reforms linked to our european priorities, in line with our country-specific recommendations. and because this is a european investment in our european union, it is essential that the european parliament plays a key role. as a co-legislator, this house will have its full say on the design of the facility and how it works. the commission will ensure full transparency, including through standing ready for a structured dialogue on priorities and expenditure, and a regular exchange of views on national plans and overall implementation. and this is how, together, we can ensure that next generation eu delivers where it really matters. this is also how we can ensure that next generation eu accelerates the twin green and digital transformation. 30% of next generation eu and our mff will be spent on climate-related projects and, if we get it right, i believe that next generation eu can be one of the biggest stimulus for investment and reforms anywhere in the world investing in the rollout of 5g, grid infrastructure, in ai and industrial digitization, in renewables, sustainable transport, energy-efficient buildings, you name it! this is how we fight climate change and modernize. this stimulus will also support much needed structural reforms to make us more resilient. and, we will have a just transition fund to support those people, those regions and sectors who have indeed a bigger step to take. as you know, i would have liked more. but this week's agreement ensures a 125% increase in the size of the just transition fund now worth eur 17.5 billion and that will make a real difference on the ground. the big winner of this summit are the new own resources. we now have a unanimous agreement on the need for new own resources. we have a clear timetable and we have them linked to repayment. this is a huge and historic step forward for our union, which both the commission and the parliament have long been pushing for. now we have no time to waste. the commission will come forward with a package of new own resources. this will include a digital levy. we will also put forward a carbon border adjustment mechanism and an extension of the emission trading system. the two go hand in hand. we need to put a price on carbon in all key sectors of the economy at home and we need to avoid carbon leakage from elsewhere to make sure that we are sustainable and competitive. let me come to another issue, which is at the heart of what our union is all about: our values. these values including the respect for the rule of law are the very foundation of our union. these values they are mandatory and they are priceless. the european council has stated a clear commitment in respecting the rule of law and protecting our financial interests. and i not only strongly welcome this also because it is of utmost importance with even more public money on the table than ever before with next generation eu but against this background, the commission will now follow up. we will look into our 2018 proposal on the rule of law. we will work together with the co-legislators to ensure that our 2018 proposal is taken forward and where necessary, improved. protecting our budget and respect for the rule of law, go hand in hand. and we must also do everything we can to protect european money by stepping up the fight against fraud. this means having the right controls in place, including a database that puts us in a position to know who the final beneficiaries of eu funding are, and we will work closely with the parliament to make this happen in the coming weeks and months. i started by saying that the european council's agreement provided the light at the end of the tunnel. but with light also comes shadow. and in this case, the shadow is in the form of a very lean long-term eu budget. there are regrettable and painful decisions on many programmes, which have crucial european added value. i am thinking of horizon, our essential health programme, of investeu. yes, all these have been increased, but certainly not as much as we would have liked. and i believe the size of our external funds, in particular, is really concerning and we should always remember that the value of eu programmes far outweigh their costs. yes, we managed to avoid even further cuts as some member states wanted but this mff is a hard pill to swallow and i know this house feels the same way. (applause) i would like to thank you. and here again, we should also take a step back and look at where we are coming from. before we even started, this budget had a hole of around eur 70 billion because of brexit, with one big member state less contributing. the good news is that we have managed to plug almost all of that gap. that means that every country has to pay more. and when you put next generation eu on top, we now have a massive and unprecedented financial firepower of eur 1.8 trillion. that is almost 13% of our eu 27 gni. and then, mff and next generation eu together, will increase the percentage of modern policies to over 50%. just look around the world to see who else can say the same as us. ladies and gentlemen! we now have the chance to achieve something historic for europe together. the druck der krise has opened doors, closed them all, and closed them all. so sad about anlass, but it is also a new chance for europe, for our community. ten years ago, in the financial and euro crisis, we saved the union and the euro from disintegration, but the price was enormous: the development of our national economies has been very rapid. young people have had to leave their home countries in search of work and a future, indebtedness between states has increased and the rifts are still visible and perceptible. this time we'll do things differently and, i believe, better. the 750 billion euro is a great sign of solidarity and readiness for reform. but next generation eu means much, much more than money. in past crises, the member states also distrusted the european institutions. the european parliament is the only institution with a legislative mandate. this time is different. this time we are looking for a community solution, also because the commission has actively worked for it and has produced a sensible proposal. thanks to next generation eu, all member states are equally able to help their people and businesses in the crisis without reducing the budgetary burden on public budgets. and also because next generation eu is based on the gemeinschaftsmethode, it will heal wounds and bring us together. this time we lay the responsibility for the fate of europe and the future prospects of our children on our very shoulders. this is a last one, which we are jointly responsible for and proud of. the european union is not a the european union is a great power. the european union is a great country. (beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, solidarity is coming home; that is the main message of the outcome of the council meeting. in these last few days, we have also seen the alternative: a possible horror scenario of nationalism and egoism. we, as the epp, are very happy now that the european council is sending a clear signal of togetherness. nowhere else in the world except for these 27 countries is giving such a strong and united response to the covid-19 crisis. that’s why i want to thank charles michel, ursula von der leyen, angela merkel and our president for the negotiations. there were a lot of sleepless nights, but finally a good outcome was reached. you did a great job in holding europe together, and the epp group supports the spirit of solidarity and togetherness. i’m happy about the agreement – no doubt about that – but i’m not happy about the deal. while we welcome the outcome of the council meeting, we are living in a parliamentary democracy, and that means that the outcome is now arriving here in the european parliament. the rule all over europe is that the output after a parliamentary consultation will never be the same as the input from the council side. that is now ahead of us. this means we must not delay things, because i hear these arguments now around the corridors. the first mff proposal – ursula von der leyen referred to this – was on the table of the council in 2018, so don’t tell us about delaying things, there was a lot of time to do the job. (applause)that’s why what we are doing now is the normal consent procedure based on the lisbon treaty. and yes, there are a lot of points where we have to criticise and, ursula, we are for the moment not ready to swallow the bitter pill you referred to, namely the mff. on the mff, we think that it doesn’t provide proper answers to the challenges of the next seven years. it has to be more future-orientated, and i, as an elected member of parliament, also refer again to the promises i made to my voters. the epp promised, for example, a strong and effective coastal and border guard, and now there is not enough money to do this. the epp promised that europe would tackle the big diseases such as cancer together, and now there are dramatic cuts in the health budget in the midst of the covid-19 pandemic, which is unbelievable. the epp promised a strong boost for european innovation once the european council formulated the 3% target to finance innovation. we are losing ground to china and asia on innovation, we are losing our future and now there are cuts to horizon europe. the epp promised a strong europe in the world, and now defence, africa, neighbourhood are being cut. that is the first point we have to talk about. the second point is europe is not a cash machine for national budgets. the proposal on the table brings us to the renationalisation of european money and of the european budget. 90 % of the eur 750 billion in the next generation eu fund will go directly to the member states’ budgets. so far, nobody knows exactly what this money will be spent on. each leader came back home in the last days with a nice envelope of money, but will there really be a european spirit when we now spend the money? my fear is that this will be spent here and there purely on national favourites. the french finance minister said already that they will use it for social projects, in other countries they will build motorways, and in other countries they will lower their taxes to create growth. that is the reality when we see the debate europe—wide. in a couple of months, we will sit here again together in the european parliament and complain that the citizens don’t understand what the purpose of european money is or what the idea of european money is; we will complain that the people don’t see the added value of europe. that is the drama we will face if, again, we don’t use this money for clear european projects like our predecessors did, for example, with airbus. that’s why we think that the member states, the council, should have agreed on, for example, a real 5g transnational network, on an eu battery project, and on a plan for eu hydrogen where each member state is using their own envelope for these investments. citizens can now count on the european parliament not to give up on this idea. we want to have a say on what the eu money will be spent on and we will be the watchdog on the european added value. i ask president michel and president von der leyen to formally propose a list of five, six or seven eu industrial innovation projects that each and every member state would commit to contributing to finance through the recovery fund resources they will receive in the next upcoming months and years. thirdly, we have to speak about rule of law again. the first time we link european money to a binding rule of law mechanism is a positive step, but when i see today the statements of our leaders, then i’m a little bit confused. macron says that money will be only spent while respecting rule of law and others say there is no link. that’s why, ursula, we have to be clear on this. we need a roadmap, we need a clear plan for implementing the principle: no money without respecting the european rules and the european mechanisms. (applause)and then, we are ready, i want to thank again for the outcome. after the european council, we have to work hard now for a good and quick solution. let’s use now the time ahead of us to find a solution and to improve the deal. we are ready to do so. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, president michel, president von der leyen, allow me to begin with a few words that aroa lópez, a nurse at vall d'hebron hospital, spoke last week at the state funeral in spain in memory of the victims of covid-19: we have given everything we had, we have worked to the limit of our strength and we have come to understand, better than ever, why we chose this profession: to care for and save lives; although many colleagues had to give their own lives for it. we have covered basic and emotional needs, we have been last-ditch messengers for elderly people who died alone, listening to the voices of their children through the telephone. we've made video calls, we've shook hands and we've had to swallow a lot of tears. it's a time when we face the worst crisis of our generation. the european union could not leave behind current and future generations. the agreement reached in the council, mrs von der leyen, mr michel, will go down in the annals of european construction. for the first time in the history of the union, the member states have agreed to issue joint debt, something unthinkable just over three months ago, and i would like to remind you that this parliament was the first to put forward this proposal. we should feel proud as an institution. the rejection of unanimous decisions on the governance of eurobonds is another milestone that accelerates the federalist imprint of the european union. for decades individual vetoes have shown their darkest face by paralysing community life and we now have, with the conference on the future of europe, an opportunity to also try to choose a new way of making decisions in the european project. the european union has demonstrated that it has learned from the mistakes of the 2008 crisis by its commitment. if austerity policy decided to save the banks and leave the people behind, now the people will be our priority. and if we want them to come first, we must focus our efforts on the transformations needed to achieve a greener, fairer, more digital society. the social democrats will not allow the recovery to fall on the shoulders of the most vulnerable. and to do this we will demand a road map with binding commitments in the new own resources that do not strangle the accounts of national budgets or the purchasing power of taxpayers. we'll only get out of this crisis with fair taxation. because it is unacceptable that the tax systems of certain states allow multinationals to save themselves millions and millions of euros at the expense of our welfare state. there's no time to lose. the virus is still striking and this parliament must ensure that recovery is set in motion as soon as possible. and as the budgetary authority, parliament will negotiate on an equal footing with the council. also for the implementation of the recovery fund and the approval of the next budget period. while we are aware of the historical significance of the recovery fund, we do not share the same optimism with the proposal for the financial framework for the coming years. the social democrats will not accept any cuts in the longterm objectives at a time like the present, when we need to strengthen our strategic autonomy and reduce the differences between the states. we will work on negotiations, which we hope will start as soon as possible, to increase funding for programmes such as horizon 2020, investeu, life, erasmus, digital europe, as well as the areas of development cooperation and humanitarian aid. because our recovery cannot be at the expense of abandoning those who need it most and still live in worse conditions than we do. solidarity within europe, but also beyond our borders. and we will remain very firm against any proposal that jeopardizes the rule of law that we have decided to build. the rights and freedoms of the union shall be binding. the socialists are clear about this. not a single euro for those governments which do not act with full respect for the rule of law and the fundamental values of the union. comrades, when politics ceases to be useful to the people, society ceases to trust politics. and so it is now time for the politics of capitalism, which agrees, which commits, which is able to abandon its own interests for the sake of the common interest. that's the moment we have to defend. yesterday a young man said to me on social media: 'i have come to believe that another europe is possible.' we have it in our hands, let's commit to it. for europe, for the citizens, another europe is possible.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the president of the european council, charles michel, on his determination to forge a compromise and above all, charles, on having cultivated a relationship of trust with the european parliament, which is essential for what we have to do together it must be said. in just a few weeks, europe has managed to demonstrate unprecedented solidarity. we are setting up a joint loan, which we will have to pay back together, to respond to one of the worst crises ever. my group, renew europe, made this recovery plan its battle horse in april and may. we are glad to see it now in place, because today it is becoming a reality. but the historical dimension - because it is a historical dimension - of this agreement in the council should not prevent us from comparing what is on the table with our own ambitions for europe and our own ambitions for the euro: the council prefers to give priority to the european fund in order to finance more national programmes at the expense of union programmes. this logic of national interests must not undermine our ability to develop a truly european investment strategy. this programme, this european debt which we are going to have to pay off together, is meaningless if we do not finance real european projects. and that is the task of this parliament. the national programmes will have to incorporate these european priorities and parliament must be able to ensure this by means of an interinstitutional agreement on the implementation of this programme. in order to reach agreement, we need a multiannual financial framework with sufficient resources to finance our future policies: digital, research, youth and erasmus, the health programme, which is in a crisis situation but which is essential - this is one of the lessons to be learned from this crisis - cannot be sacrificed on the altar of the rate of return for the member states. it is also necessary to have a clear commitment to own resources, it would simply not be serious to borrow such a sum without really knowing how we are going to pay it back. it is essential to have a clear interinstitutional commitment to adopt these new own resources before the start of repayment of the rescue loans, and that is our condition: this very precise timetable must be adopted before we start repaying this debt. finally, my group will sign its final agreement if, and only if, the package contains strong guarantees as to the ability to bind the european fund to respect for the rule of law; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it is the only way to believe that this time we will really achieve this mechanism. we need a new system with clear rules, not against hungary or poland or any other member state in particular, but to ensure that european money no longer funds politicians in power who are turning their backs on our fundamental values every day. mr president, this european council has once again shown that the european project cannot be limited to the sum of national interests, where everyone wields a veto. our futures are shared, as are our challenges, our failures, our successes. the conference on the future of europe must become an opportunity to redefine governance and put the interests of europeans first, with the sole aim of bringing the magic of the european project to life, as you have said.
president of the european council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the various speeches which have been made. i would like to thank the whole of parliament once again for the driving role, the visionary role, which has been played over the last few weeks, over the last few months. i would also like to thank the president of the commission for the very strong cooperation. i would like to react briefly to some of the points that have been raised. the first point i would like to make - and many have made it - is the determination to act quickly and to act strongly this time. we remember a financial crisis which showed that when we acted too slowly and too little, the added burden was all the greater. the choice made in just a few weeks, on the basis of a commission proposal, was to mobilise to convince 27 member states, 27 political leaders, each responsible to their national parliaments, to 'move forward' and to use the formula 'towards a copernican evolution of the european project'. what is on the table with this mff, and especially with this covid-19 recovery fund, is transforming the way the european union can work together tomorrow, if the choice is made to mobilise this debate on own resources. it is true that this is an old debate, it is not a new debate. it is an old political debate which has been the subject of a very substantial step forward this time, and i am glad that the european parliament, the national parliaments, the council and the european council can continue to be involved, because behind the question of these levies, whether they are linked to carbon at borders, linked to the digital issue, linked to the financial issue, there are fundamentally democratic debates, which deserve to be mobilized by our citizens. the 450 million citizens of europe must be involved in democratic processes at national and european level. i would also like to say that this act is, from my point of view, not an end but a starting point. a lot of work, a lot of mobilisation, a lot of energy is going to be needed to make sure that this agreement can be translated on paper in the european council, which will lead to passionate and exciting discussions with the european parliament, that we can translate this into real life. as i said at the beginning, and i say it again, it is not just a question of money, it is a question of values, principles and the direction we want to give to the european project that mobilizes us. this european project, which is a unique project, without precedent in the history of the world: 450 million citizens, 27 different countries united by a common base of values, united by a common ambition to move forward, to ensure that there is more shared humanity, is the demonstration that has been made, i believe today. finally, i have heard the excesses, i have heard the words, let us say, a little wretched, of the extremist parties represented here, so i measure well: you choose retreat, you choose hatred, you choose separation, you choose rejection. we choose tolerance, openness, and gathering. it is a sad day for you, it is a happy day for europe and for europeans. (applause) i would like to thank
i also thank you, mr president, for your participation in this extraordinary plenary session today. let's get back to our interventions.
mr president, let me start by saying to president michel that i congratulate the council for this historical agreement. but it is an irony that when finally we have real, true european money, we are going to spend it, basically, in national envelopes and national programmes, not in a european–wide big programme. a crise gravíssima que a saúde nos trouxe hoje, nomeadamente, exige uma homenagem aos mortos, aos doentes, aos recuperados, aos profissionais de saúde, mas esta crise é também uma crise económica e social gravíssima e, por isso, é fundamental dizer que este acordo é um acordo histórico, mas ele põe uma questão: como é que vai ser aplicado? os governos nacionais não têm agora desculpas, eles têm os meios para responder à crise, aos cidadãos, às empresas, aos trabalhadores. finalmente, e quanto ao qfp, quero dizer que estamos dececionados, especialmente por não haver um grande programa para a saúde, e especialmente por se desprezar a investigação e o erasmus+, e por isso estamos ao lado do parlamento no condicionamento deste programa. só aprovaremos o qfp se forem corrigidos estes defeitos. uma palavra final para a minha colega socialista portuguesa, que aqui falou na conferência sobre o futuro da europa, mas infelizmente tem sido o governo português o mais relutante e aquele que mais tem bloqueado no conselho o futuro da europa. e falou nos valores e nos direitos, mas foi o primeiro-ministro antónio costa que veio defender a separação total entre o fundo de recuperação e o estado de direito.
mr president, we all heard what the eu leaders want. now, it’s our role in this house to discuss what citizens want, and, in particular, let us hear what the next generation wants. we name it, we promote it, but we do not listen to it. we see how programme such as erasmus+, youth guarantee, horizon and digital europe are cut or left unfunded in a survival mode in a feeble multiannual financial budget; 90% of the next generation eu funds will finance the recovery and resilience facility, the largest eu programme in history, which will help us renew europe. as a co-rapporteur on this file, i wish to make a pledge. the recovery and resilience facility will be an instrument for the next generation. i will advocate as part of the parliament position to have, within the recovery and resilience facility, a pillar for reforms and investment designed for the next generation, for youth and children. we will repair and prepare the union for the future only by having the next generation on board, not only asking them to pay the bill, but to let them have a voice. to our youth, to our children: at eu level, parliament is, and will be, your voice.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, to begin, i would like to express my regret that we are not able to speak croatian today and that there is no croatian interpretation available. from 2001 to 2019, the eu civil protection mechanism was activated more than 330 times in response to emergencies, while since the start of the 2020 pandemic, only for repatriation flights and air bridges, the mechanism has been activated over 400 times. extreme temperatures, forest fires, floods, storms, earthquakes and even diseases are part of our reality and we always need to be able to respond effectively. taught by the experience of the coronavirus pandemic, i believe that we need to strengthen the three pillars of the civil protection mechanism: prevention, preparedness and response. after the devastating earthquake that hit zagreb on 22 march, seven european countries sent emergency aid to croatia. thanks, slovenia, italy, hungary lithuania, austria, montenegro and france. croatia was also among the first countries to receive protective equipment through resceu during the first wave of the pandemic. it is encouraging to see the cooperation of the member states at work at key times when, as individuals and as a community, we face a threat to our security. i welcome the announced significant increase in funding for the civil protection mechanism as this ensures the strengthening of the union’s capacity and action in the field of health and civil protection. it is necessary to strengthen the civil protection mechanism and resceu and make them more flexible, faster and better coordinated with national civil protection bodies. thanks all of you that are helping us.
i would like to point out that the lack of interpretation for some languages is obviously due to no other reason than a technical problem in the connection between the plenary and the other room we use, because due to the covid-19 distancing measures, unfortunately our interpreters can no longer work in the booths and, of course, we are absolutely concerned about their maximum safety in performing this very important function and the services are working diligently to solve this problem in the shortest possible time. we hope that we will have the good news that this can be resolved this evening. this is a purely technical problem which does not depend on our will.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, in the age of climate change, we must prepare now, in 2020, for the world of 2030, a world that doesn’t look simple at all. ‘protection is not a principle, but an expedient’. this is what benjamin disraeli said. right now, as i speak, all over the world and in europe we have forest fires, extreme weather and climate events. it is 31 degrees today on 14 september in brussels, and we saw over 30 degrees all over the arctic circle in march. it’s very clear that we need an improved european union civil protection mechanism, and we need it fast. the coronavirus has shown us the great need for an effective european disaster response. we can no longer afford a situation similar to when italy came to this house and we had to show our empty pockets. we’ve seen how disinformation and populism rise on our clumsiness and our hesitations. european citizens are watching us and want to see that we’ve learned from this crisis, that we have gone through it and are going forward. take a look at yesterday’s figures. the second wave of the pandemic in europe is here. it’s happening now, right before your eyes. two hundred thousand deaths – you said it, that is the greatest tragedy that europe has suffered since the end of the second world war. in the face of such crisis, we have the chance to strengthen the civil protection mechanism through this week’s vote. our group’s priority in renew europe is to ensure that the european union has a flexible emergency response system, one that is centred on people and livelihoods. the commission must be able to purchase more quickly and without depending on the will of one member state or another. the commission must be able to intervene in the case of fires, to repatriate essential workers, such as my fellow romanian navigators who are stranded in different ports around the world, or to help in humanitarian situations, such as the one unrolling before our eyes in moria. let’s prove that we’ve learned from our lessons. let’s act today for the europe that our children want for their future!
the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish government's decision to withdraw from the european union. turkey has already violated the sovereignty and sovereign rights of two member states of the european union: greece and cyprus. but, especially in relation to cyprus, it does not merely threaten; the european union has already invaded its exclusive economic zone and has occupied the northern part of the republic of cyprus since 1974. turkey has invaded syria. he's been in libya and iraq. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the latter has been proposed in cases of countries outside the european union; but here we are silent. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to ensure that the european union is able to play a more active role in the world economy. the neo-ottoman monster is not dealt with in dialogue; first you punish it, then you negotiate.
mr president, mr borrell, the european parliament is clearly mostly committed to the european message of solidarity and to finding solutions to de-escalation, not escalation on the ground. geopolitical objectives and facts are destabilising the situation in the region and we members of the european parliament must stand firmly behind our european values, but in a spirit of partnership and peace. the turkish border is the european border, we've heard it a few times, and we need to know how to protect it. however, we need dialogue to defuse tensions, but dialogue cannot be successful if it is based on blackmail. the territorial integrity of each member state must be protected. we should build bridges, not tear them down. we must warn our strategic partners that the spirit of european values exists, but insisting on respect for land, sea and airspace, as well as the application of international law. i think turkey has heard our messages, we'll see the answer.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president. i wish to thank members for all their contributions to the analysis of the situation and the proposal for the next foreign affairs council and the next european council. i will consider all these comprehensive views and i will share them with my colleagues at the foreign affairs council and transmit them to the members of the european union when the heads of state and government meet. i have the honour and the responsibility to attend the european council meeting, and i will transmit the positions of the european parliament which have been expressed today. it is clear to me that we have to stand by our interests and demonstrate our readiness to protect the rights and interests of the european union and especially the ones of cyprus and greece, which has been threatened. in our gymnich meeting in berlin we got a political agreement and now we are trying to make this particular agreement become a decision, a formal decision at the foreign affairs council. the working group at the council are engaged on that. unhappily, today there is no agreement. you know that sanctions require strong agreements between member states, unanimity in some cases, and this for the time being is not the case. we will continue working in order to find a solution that could make possible both sanctions on belarus and sanctions on turkey, to follow the same base as we agreed in the informal meeting in berlin. but, at the same time, it has also been expressed here that a minimum of trust and dialogue with turkey has to be pursued in order to stop the escalation. i do think both things are contradictory. we have on the one hand to show our readiness and our stance, and on the other to continue talking. this is the work of diplomacy and that we are trying to do, especially i myself with the help of the external action service – to look for ways to work through our problems and improve our relations. i cannot answer all the questions that you have been raising. i would only like to say to mr lagodinsky and others that i share very much their approach to try to substitute the search for energy in those seas, which is something that we know that it is not exactly in accordance with our green deal, and instead of that we should try to provide to cyprus, turkey and the greek islands big support in order to develop alternatives energies. the sun is there. the wind is there. all the natural resources that we want to mobilise in order to provide cleaner and decarbonised energy are there. i think that one of the ways to try to solve the problem is that we would like to stop looking for carbon energies – and although gas is a ‘less—carbon’ one it is still a carbon one – and to look for another solution. this will be part of the solution. at the same time, you claim here decisions that are outside my capacity and the capacity of the council. like, for example, the arms issue. it is a matter for the member states and all of you can influence the attitude of your member states through the national parliaments. i’m sure that the voices that have been expressed here at the european parliament will also be heard at the national parliaments, and the political parties that you represent will ask at national level the same thing that you have been asking, here because the answer has to come from member states. the european union has not the capacity, for example, to decide an arms embargo. it is a unilateral decision of the member states to decide what to do with their arms policy. about the resources that we have been providing to turkey, as some have been mentioning, i want to make the difference between the resources that we allocate to turkey and the resources that we allocate to help syrian and other refugees being hosted by turkey. these are different things. this money goes to provide schools and health care and social security, and even food, for hundreds of thousands of the refugees that are in turkey. so the money in some cases goes through the turkish government, but in most of the cases it goes directly to the interested people through ngos and through united nations organisations. i suppose that everybody here will be in favour of giving financial support to alleviate the situation of the refugees being hosted in turkey. please make the difference, because these are completely different things. thank you very much for all your contributions. i understand that there are strong feelings about the turkey issue, turkish membership. our relations with turkey are, as i said, at a watershed moment. it is one of those moments in history where decision—makers have to go and face difficult decisions, trying to look for the best for all of us. i am sure that this is what the european union council will try to do at the next meeting. (applause)
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative! there are two messages coming out of this important debate here in parliament. the first is to ankara: mr president erdoğan, stop this policy of aggression, of military escalation. you're not going to succeed with that. the second important message is to our partners in greece and cyprus. you are not alone in this incendiary conflict. we stand by you and we are doing everything in our power to return to political dialogue. i have a great deal of sympathy for the emotionality expressed in many of the speeches here. but there's one thing i'm a little puzzled about. the european union is committed to peace and dialogue. i don't know if it helps us to keep going through the rhetorical spiral of escalation. and i do not understand how it can be that we have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that we are doing nothing but talking. but without conversation, all else is nothing. and when it is said here that we are continually throwing new money down turkey's throat, i want to expressly join the high representative. we've adjusted the references. the money we are putting at the disposal of turkey is going first and foremost to where it is most needed: to the critical part of turkish civil society in its efforts to strengthen democracy and the rule of law and human rights. and i fully support this policy. and it is exactly as the high representative has just put it: turkey has taken in four million refugees. i will answer to your assessment of whether refugees are treated better there or in the european union. and i have the impression that the money that the european union is providing to turkey to improve the situation of refugees, to create jobs, to improve education, is money well spent. we have nothing to be ashamed of. and if it seems that we are not going to do anything about that either, i would point out that the negotiations on the deepening of the customs union are on ice, just as the accession negotiations with turkey are on ice. but let us not forget that turkey is not just mr erdoğan. we have a critical civil society there, which continues to look towards the european union. it's a divided society. and i accept any argument against turkey: steps back, massive steps back on the rule of law, on media freedom, on freedom of expression, on the independence of the judiciary. but i do not accept one argument, mr president: religion must not play a role in the evaluation of turkey, at least not in the european union. we are a community founded on religious freedom. we are not an exclusive club of just one religion. the european union is home to millions of people of the muslim faith, so this cannot be an argument against turkey. there are many other arguments. i would like to reassure you in this connection - and i thank you for your important contributions - that the president of the council, but also the german presidency, will work tirelessly to ensure that we resolve this conflict. and i'm very pleased that we can count on your support in this.
i would like to thank the two speakers from the commission and the council for their attention to our contributions to the debate and for their differentiated and determined approach to drawing the right conclusions from them. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday, 16 september 2020, with the final vote on thursday, 17 september 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the turkish position in the aegean and the eastern mediterranean is continuous and escalating. the turkish research vessel's departure from the greek shelf does not signal a de-escalation of tension, as the turkish fleet remains in the area, and top turkish government officials continue the provocative rhetoric, stressing that the oruç reis will return after its repair. president erdoğan is invoking a mock dialogue to buy time ahead of the european summit next week. it is seeking to impose by blackmail a political agenda which directly offends international law and the sovereign rights of greece, disregards our decisions and the european institutions and intensifies turkish revisionism. the only way for turkey to realise that it needs to change its policy is to impose severe economic sanctions that hit the core of its economy, such as the suspension of the favourable terms of the customs union. otherwise, if the european union once again gives in to turkey's illegal, blackmailing and provocative reform policy, this will be interpreted as a weakness of a strong europe, which has 500 million citizens but cannot enforce its decisions. it is an insult to the union that economic agreements should take precedence over principles and values and undermine its unity.
in writing. it is a positive fact that the period of illusions about the future of our relations with turkey is irrevocably over. this summer it has been abundantly demonstrated that turkey is a threat not only to greece and cyprus but to the whole of europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to defend its legitimate rights and to guard the eu's borders with determination. it is now the eu's turn to rise to the occasion and respond decisively to turkey's provocative and offensive behaviour, starting with immediate and tough sanctions on trade and economic levels. the defence of european borders and of international law is neither a negotiable matter nor a bilateral problem of a member state. i call on you to rise to the occasion so that we can all put an end to turkey's dangerous games. i am sure that we can and we will.
the next item is the joint debate on the statements by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in belarus (2020/2779 ((rsp))), the situation in lebanon (2020/2775 ((rsp)) and the situation in russia and the poisoning of alexei navalny (2020/2777 ((rsp)). i would like to point out once again that this debate does not accept spontaneous speeches and blue cards. i would like to give the floor to the high representative and vice-president of the commission, mr josep borrell fontelles, for this joint debate on these very important topical and fundamental questions.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, you have invited me to address the plenary on three very important issues. altogether, the three of them are going to be a lot of work and we do not have enough time to deal with them as much as needed, but let’s try to summarise what has indeed been a summer of crisis. let us start with belarus. you know, the situation is clear for us. we consider the elections on 9 august fraudulent. (interruption from the floor). so we don’t recognise lukashenko as the legitimate president of belarus and i appreciate the support that this parliament has demonstrated for the rights of the belarusian people, as well as the actions taken until now by the european union. but the brutal crackdown continues. more than 7 500 peaceful protesters have been detained, 500 cases of torture have been recorded and documented. all presidium members of the coordination council have been arrested or forced into exile, with the exception of the nobel prize laureate ms alexievich. we have reacted. we have reacted across four pillars of action. first, by adopting sanctions. we are in the process of adopting sanctions for a substantial number of those responsible for the violence, repression and falsification of election results. they are right now under examination by the council working parties, with a view to adoption as soon as possible. as soon as possible – what does this mean? they should be adopted before the european council. we want to keep european credibility. we are trying to apply a gradual approach and if the situation further deteriorates, additional sanctions will be envisaged. secondly, we call on the belarusian authorities to find a way out of the crisis by ending the violence and unlawful detentions and by establishing an inclusive national dialogue. we continue to stress that we are ready to support any credible initiative in this direction. for example, the offer of the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce) chair—in—office to visit minsk. it could help to resolve the crisis. but we stress the fact that, from our point of view, the re-run of the elections under osce supervision would be the best solution, but so far, it has been impossible for us to reach out to the belarus authorities at any level. the single-minded determination of lukashenko to stay in power with the apparently increasing support of moscow makes all this difficult. you know that there was a meeting between lukashenko and putin on monday, yesterday, and it seems from this meeting that support by russia for belarus, for lukashenko, continues. thirdly, we are committed to strengthening our engagement with the belarusian people and civil society. president von der leyen announced eur 53 million allocated to belarus, funds which have immediately been made available to the victims of violence, and we are trying to provide support to the independent media. and finally, we are conducting a review of eu-belarus relations. we are identifying areas where contact should be suspended or scaled back, areas where it is in our interest to engage and even intensify contacts in support of the belarusian people and civil society, and finally areas where we can assist further if there is a move towards a new democratic belarus. i want to stress these three areas: where we can suspend or scale back, where we can engage and where we can further assist. this is telegraphically what i can say about the belarusian situation. let’s now focus, as you have requested, on the difficult situation in lebanon. as you know, there was a devastating explosion on 4 august in beirut that struck the country in the financial, economic and political dimension. the situation is compounded by the pandemic, and the consequences of the conflict in syria, including the fact that lebanon has been hosting over a million syrian refugees for many years now. last week, additionally, we witnessed a huge fire in the port of beirut. i am proud to say that our response to the explosion was swift and solid. we mobilised civil protection and immediate humanitarian and crisis response in the amount of eur 63 million. our civil protection mechanism mobilised 17 member states, plus norway and turkey, with search and rescue teams and medical care providing substantial life-saving assistance. our determination is strong and clear. the european union is a long-standing partner and a major donor of humanitarian, development and other assistance to lebanon, and we remain committed to assisting the lebanese people in the upcoming period. going forward, and as called for by president macron during his visit of 1 september, we want to quickly see the formation of a capable, representative and accountable lebanese government. it should deliver on a credible reform agenda, as the lebanese people have long been claiming. concrete steps to reform the financial system and to adopt anti-corruption measures remain vital. as important are the necessary reform of the electricity sector and public procurement. lebanon needs also to reach agreement with the international monetary fund in order to solve its deep economic crisis. it is also a precondition for a possible macro-financial assistance programme from the eu. we cannot do that without, first, an agreement with the international monetary fund. but we have recently finalised with the world bank and the united nations a joint rapid damage and needs assessment for rehabilitation and reconstruction, and work continues on its operationalisation this should help to provide assistance in the future and we will continue to apply safeguards to ensure that funds reach the intended beneficiaries. that’s what the people of lebanon asked, to give the help directly to the people in need. they do not seem to rely very much on or trust a lot their institutions and government. and finally, an independent and credible investigation into the explosion should be conducted and we stand ready to help. we want to help lebanon, but lebanon must also do its part and proceed urgently to implement long-standing reform. and now, let’s have a look at the situation, as you have requested, in russia, and particularly the poisoning of the opposition leader mr alexei navalny, which has shocked all of us. i would like to take this opportunity to transmit, once again, my best wishes to him and his family, and the fact that we condemn in the strongest possible terms this assassination attempt. because this is the word we have to use: assassination attempt. i personally issued two statements immediately after this event happened, on 24 august and 2 september, and the eu 27 issued a declaration on 3 september. the german government confirmed on 2 september that mr navalny was poisoned by a military chemical and yesterday we learned that french and swedish laboratories have ratified this conclusion. there is now irrefutable evidence that a nerve agent from the novichok group, similar to the one used in the assassination attempt on sergei and also on yulia skripal in march 2018, was used to try to assassinate mr navalny. the use of chemical weapons by anyone, anywhere, and at any time and under any circumstances constitutes a serious breach of international law and international human rights standards. so we will keep calling upon the russian authorities to cooperate fully in this investigation and particularly with the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons. this is all i have to inform you of and i am looking forward to hearing your contribution to these three very important issues of our foreign policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i admire the people in belarus who are standing up peacefully but firmly against the electoral fraud of the old regime. you deserve our support. we do not recognize this choice either. we too call for new elections. we too call for dialogue between the regime and the coordination council. svetlana tikhanovskaya is legitimated by the voters to negotiate how to shape the way to new elections. we too call for an end to the violence of the kgb, the omon troops and the police against the peaceful citizens. we too call for the immediate release of all demonstrators and political prisoners, such as kolesnikov, tchanovsky, babaryko, sevyarynets, vlasova, snak, dylewski. we too demand that there should be no foreign intervention so that the belarusians can shape their democratic revolution according to their wishes. but russia is also a foreign country, mr. putin. the brezhnev doctrine has been consigned to the dustbin of history with the charter of paris and the end of the warsaw pact. i call on the russian president to accept the will of the people for once. a people who have not yet developed any anti-russian feelings. use that! support the will of the people and gain influence through it, not through violence, occupation, repression, intimidation and troll propaganda! and i call on the council and the commission to orient our policy towards belarus to the wishes and expectations of the people there and not to the wishes of mr putin. we should have a comprehensive package of aid for belarus for the period after the victory of the democratic revolution, which will support political, economic and social development. the only condition should be that this government is the result of free, democratic elections. everything else is the belarusian business. we accept the way, we do not send tanks or green men. we can guarantee that. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, neither the thousands of arrests of protesters, opposition leaders, workers, students and journalists since the fraudulent elections on 9 august, nor the hundreds of complaints of torture in detention centres have frightened a population that considers lukashenko's dictatorship to be the main problem in belarus. mr borrell, you can count on the commitment of the social democratic family to accompany the belarusian people on their way to democracy and freedom. we are aware that the solution is not only what happens in minsk, but also in moscow. and we are committed to the aspirations of the whole of the political opposition, embodied in the coordination council. a peaceful transition, the release of political prisoners and the holding of new elections. the work of tijanovskaya, tsepkalo and kolesnikova in promoting democratization and respect for human rights in belarus is a source of inspiration for democrats everywhere. that is why our group has proposed that their sacrifice be rewarded with the sakharov prize for freedom of conscience. the arrest of kolesnikova is a new and intolerable step in the tunnel of time in which the dictatorship has kept belarus since 1994. the time has come for women in belarus. lukashenko identifies feminism with western values that endanger his concept of state. gender equality has never been on the agenda of his government and, according to the latest report by un women, belarus tops the list of countries with the lowest participation of women in government positions. she often likes to say that women's vocation is to adorn the world, and men's, to protect the world and women. no, mr lukashenko: the responsibility of a head of government is to promote the progress of all men and women who are born free and equal in rights. and from the european union, for our principles, we must listen to the legitimate demand, the courage of thousands of women and men who put their lives at risk. their fight is their freedom and it's our fight.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, last wednesday, one month after the so-called presidential elections in belarus, svetlana aleksievitch received anonymous phone calls and was subjected to attempted break-ins in her apartment. of the seven members of the coordination council, aleksievitch was the only one who was not arrested or forced into exile. in response, the ambassadors of our member states, including the romanian ambassador viorel moșanu, who knows very well what repression means, rushed to his home to provide him with support and protection. a highly symbolic gesture renewed in the following days. this is the europe that the citizens of belarus and our neighbours need. a europe that protects those who dare to fight for freedom of expression and democracy. for more than a month, demonstrations of unprecedented scale have been taking place across belarus. what a lesson of courage and freedom these citizens of all ages who come together under female leadership are teaching! they ask lukashenko to respect the vote of 9 august, which was falsified without any scruples. to the demands of the protesters, lukashenko responds as in the soviet era: 7000 people were arrested and more than 450 tortured. moreover, he imagines enemies (nato, europe, the west) and asks for putin's help, but no lasting solution can be found to this because the only correct way is a peaceful transition from autocratic to democratic power, the result of a transparent dialogue with the opposition. it is urgent that the violence and repression stop. it is also urgent that all political prisoners be released. europe must do everything in its power to achieve this. strong and effective sanctions against those responsible for the election fraud and repression against the belarusian people must be put in place as soon as possible. lukashenko deserves to be at the top of that list. how could the belarusian citizens fighting for freedom understand that this is not the case? the european union must also be ready to provide protection for all those fleeing lukashenka's repression, and to actively support civil society, political activists and journalists who continue to fight for freedom of expression. if we want the european union to be a credible pillar of support for respect for individual freedoms and democracy, our responses must be more firm and effective in the future.
mr. vice president, who does the poisoning of navalny serve? this is no longer an isolated case, but we are witnessing a stalinist mode of action whereby opponents of the putin regime are eliminated. moreover, this policy of aggression does not stop at the border. moscow practices and understands only the language of power and externally, defying any principle of international law. what we can do is act as one and harder than ever to stop this primitive way that democracy is liquidated by the kremlin. russia must be punished. russia has an obligation to swiftly accept an international investigation into navalny's case. sanctions must target institutions and companies that support the putin regime. this regime can only be stopped if we act now firmly and without any concessions, regardless of the consequences. we're talking about life and values that can't be negotiated with anyone. mr vice-president borrell, you have a responsibility to act firmly and categorically to promote european values in our neighbourhood. foreign policy starts in the neighborhood.
in writing. the current situation in belarus is not only extremely complicated but also extremely unclear. one thing is certain: the abuse of authority against its own citizens. the european union must give its full support to stop the abuses, investigate these human rights violations, ensure freedom of expression and fulfil democratic aspirations. president lukashenko has ruled belarus for 25 years in a purely dictatorial style. is russia pursuing its ultimate compromise or its transformation into a pawn? moscow's game can be a very complex and long one. the stakes are high for russia: the kremlin has been seeking the economic and political fulfillment of belarus for nearly a quarter of a century. the current protests are neither anti-russian, nor pro-eu and nato, and moscow's interests are clear. and in these conditions, russian disinformation can affect us in very subtle and insidious ways. for the moment, the opposition is very active, but without a cohesive leadership. leadership is fragmented and amorphous; leaders seem to be driven by sometimes divergent interests, and some are haunted by question marks. my speech calls for solidarity and concrete action by the european union, built on accurate and comprehensive information, with positive results for both the eu and the belarusian people.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament for putting this item on the agenda for today's plenary session. this is an opportunity for the commission to report on the state of play of the efforts made and implemented for a more coordinated approach to restricting free movement in the fight against covid-19. since the beginning of the pandemic, member states have adopted a series of measures to combat the spread of the virus, some of which have restricted free movement within the union. these unilateral measures, although taken to protect public health, have resulted in significant disruption. the commission has always stressed that any restrictions to the fundamental right of free movement taken to address public health risks should only be used where strictly necessary, and be coordinated, proportionate and non-discriminatory. businesses and citizens have been confronted with diverging measures, often adopted at very short notice and not sufficiently coordinated with other member states. many of us have felt this in our daily lives with long queues at the borders and confusion about where we can travel in the eu and under what conditions. throughout the past months, the commission has worked closely with the member states to ensure that eu citizens' rights are respected. we issued several guidelines and communications linked to the pandemic. in a first step, we have successfully addressed challenges, such as blanket restrictions to free movement, but now most member states have put an end to the controls they at first introduced at their international borders. however, restrictions to free movement persist and in some member states have even been reinforced. half a year after the beginning of this crisis, we can no longer afford uncoordinated restrictions to cross-border movement. ladies and gentlemen, we need a more coordinated, predictable and transparent approach to prevent the spread of the virus and to safeguard the health of citizens and free movement in the union. enhanced coordination is crucial for the millions of citizens who regularly cross an internal border, for the reconstruction of the european economy and for avoiding the separation of many families on both sides of a border. for this reason, on 4 september the commission proposed a council recommendation for a coordinated approach to restrictions on free movement. our proposal is based on two fundamental principles of european law, particularly in the field of free movement: proportionality and non-discrimination. these principles must be respected for all restrictions adopted by the member states. our proposal for a recommendation proposes an approach based on four points. first, the introduction of common criteria for member states when deciding whether to introduce restrictions on free movement: the case notification rate, which is the total number of newly notified cases per 100 000 people in a given area in the last 14 days, the test positivity rate, which is the percentage of positive tests among all tests carried out during the last week, and the testing rate, which is the number of tests per 100 000 people carried out during the last week. second, a common colour code should be used across the union to provide clarity for all. third, a common approach should be established when dealing with travellers coming from areas deemed to be at higher risk. fourth, giving clear, comprehensive and timely information to the public. we need to step up our communication efforts. member states should also inform each other and the commission of any upcoming restriction on a weekly basis. this information should also be regularly provided to the commission for publication on the reopened eu web platform, which already contains valuable information. the commission does not propose any new restrictions or encourage member states to do so. instead the european centre for disease prevention and control stresses the importance of general sanitary measures in containing the virus, such as physical distancing and the wearing of masks. however, where a member state does consider that travel restrictions are essential, the commission wants to ensure that this is done in a more coordinated way. the decision to introduce such restrictions remains the responsibility of the member states, which have to comply with eu law. of course member states have the possibility not to introduce restrictions at all, even if the different criteria outlined in the draft recommendation are met. we are working closely with the german presidency and we look forward to the discussion of this proposal. if i may, allow me to add a few words on the schengen area and the free movement of goods and services. schengen is a major achievement of the eu and it is a living project. during 35 years of existence, it has faced many challenges that reshaped it, but now schengen is at risk and not only because of the pandemic. never before has the schengen area been put to the test as in the last five years. after the migration crisis of 2015, but also after increased terrorist threats, controls at internal borders sometimes became the new normal. we are determined to change this situation. in the recent security union strategy and in the forthcoming new pact on migration and asylum, the commission is identifying a number of initiatives for a stronger and more complete schengen, in particular as regards trust-building and efficiency of controls at the external borders. i know that, in addition to the free movement of people, the free movement of goods and services is a subject that is close to the heart of many in the house. in this connection, let me reiterate a message already raised by commissioner breton within the competitiveness council on 1 september. we need to ensure free movement of goods and services between member states to safeguard supply chains. it is essential that all necessary measures are taken for this to become a reality on the ground so that both workers and goods are able to cross borders in less than 15 minutes. and, while our focus today is the smooth functioning of the eu internal market and schengen, let us bear in mind that european supply chains have to remain connected to global ones, and the unrestricted access of essential transport workers from third countries needs to be upheld as well. in conclusion, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, free movement, the schengen area and the internal market are among the union's main achievements and are of vital importance for the european economy. we have a duty, more than ever, to protect them in this time of crisis. we must work together even more closely to show european citizens that in this difficult time the european union is there to protect their health and their rights and freedoms. we are working very closely, as i said, with the german presidency on these matters and i thank you, of course, for putting this item on the agenda. i would be very happy to hear your comments and, if possible, to answer your questions.
the president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i'm sorry to have kept you waiting, but i had a conversation with your president sassoli. it took a little longer, so i had to hurry here. but in the context of a well-established collegiality, the commission and the council are working very well together - and not just on this issue. i am grateful to you for the opportunity to share some thoughts with you today on a subject which affects not only members of parliament, not only representatives of the council and the commission, but all of us. these days we all feel: the crisis is not over. in almost all the member states of the european union, the numbers are rising, sometimes dramatically. it is nothing less than the protection of citizens. we all - the institutions - have an equal obligation to do everything we can to ensure that people's health is protected in the best possible way. if it is true, as we have said time and time again, not only here in the european parliament, that the virus has no passport and that the virus does not care about national borders, then we must also develop the right action from these very simple findings. after a few difficult weeks, we were able to draw the right conclusions at the beginning of the crisis, in that we said: solidarity is the order of the day. we are now helping each other to equip them with medical supplies and technical equipment. we have developed procedures to ensure that all people, no matter where they live in the eu, can be better served. but: as for the immediate consequences in fighting the pandemic, we have not yet reached the point where we can all say: the coordination, the voting is working. that is why the german presidency of the council of the european union has decided to put the question of the coordination of our actions on the agenda. and thank you again for having us discuss this in parliament today. you all come from very different countries, and you know that the reactions to the crisis are very different. we are currently struggling in the council with the fact that we do not know exactly whether all the ministers can attend the physical meetings. in some cases, the national measures taken are so restrictive that the ministers cannot come. i'm here now, and that means for me, if i travel back on thursday, i'm going to have to quarantine for several days and i'm going to have to get tested multiple times. this in turn makes it difficult in other areas. i'll be back next week. so this has a very practical effect, but i don't want to talk about politicians now, i want to talk about what people experience every day. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the beginning, everyone demanded it. we must protect the citizens. but it soon became clear that the reintroduction of border controls would also present significant difficulties. that is why i have two important messages for you, ladies and gentlemen. on the one hand, it remains the prerogative of the member states to take the necessary measures necessary and appropriate to protect public health. whether it's the quarantine requirements, whether it's the testing, whether it's the travel restrictions, whether it's the introduction of temporary controls. but - and this is my second message - all measures taken by the member states, and i am speaking now also on behalf of the member states, must be proportionate and non-discriminatory and must be in line with eu law. and it also requires a fair dose of pragmatism. in the end, the restrictive measures must also be practical and not too intrusive in people's daily lives. the council is currently working on a closer alignment at all political levels. for example, next week the european ministers will be discussing this, so it will not be just the ministers responsible for health who will be looking for an exchange. because we know it has massive political consequences. i would like to mention a few examples of where we have already made progress. on 30 june, for example, the council adopted a recommendation to phase out the temporary restriction on non-essential travel to the eu. we also stated that we would assess the epidemiological situation in various third countries in such a way that this could then be coordinated at eu level. on 4 september we convened an ad hoc meeting of health ministers to find a basic understanding of what joint quarantines could look like, what a joint testing regime within the eu could look like and how to bring this into line with the competences of the member states. the ministers responsible for the internal market will also be discussing this week how to remove unnecessary obstacles to the internal market. we will of course also call on the member states to avoid creating new obstacles. we will also, in all likelihood, call on the commission to draw lessons from the covid-19 crisis so that we are better prepared for future crises. i hope that we will also be able to propose, in close cooperation, a number of new measures to make the internal market more resilient. finally, we all know the commission's recent proposal: the famous traffic light system. we want to use a colour coding system to help classify risk areas and make decisions more transparent. it is clear that this is not a decision taken by a single member state, but that in a european union committed to openness and transparency, this always has an impact on the other member states. the commission has also proposed measures to help those returning from travel to areas of increased risk. i had already mentioned my own modest personal example. we've accomplished a lot. but i think it is important now - the crisis is not over - that we learn from the weaknesses, that we come together even more closely, that we also put the positive examples at the forefront of our discussion and that in the end the freedom of movement, the freedom, the transparency and the borderlessness that the european union stands for above all else, does not suffer lasting damage. this should be a common interest of parliament, the commission and of course the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you for these clear messages. i think it is gratifying to see that in the european parliament you are pulling together and that the messages you are sending out today are so clear. i would like to say that i think that in reality not all of what you have proposed has been implemented. the people in the border areas, the citizens who have to travel for business or pleasure, have not yet experienced so much of this new world of coordination that we are being told about today. you will see several copies on domestic flights, which must be filled in in different languages. they note that not all countries use the same classifications to define the actual extent of the risk zones and that border closures remain part of the arsenal of member states' so-called competences. i think that we must say clearly, mr minister, mr commissioner, in the interests of the citizens for whom we are all working: freedom and freedom of movement in europe must not be restricted again. this was understandable at the beginning of the crisis, but now the member states have learned a lesson. it is now up to all politicians to ensure that the people in the border areas who keep the single market alive do not become a test laboratory for the learning process of the member states. of course, we know that the coronavirus crisis is an unprecedented challenge for all of us. but it is all the more important that the council and the member states now commit themselves together to following the path you have described. i believe that if we declare today and tomorrow as the european parliament that the principles must be the open internal market and open borders and testing as a means of limiting, not nationality as a means of controlling, then we are doing what we need to do, which is to pave the way for a european path in the fight against the virus. i think that's what we're all interested in.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, we must be frank about the fact that we have wasted the last three months. because what is happening today in cross-border communications and what our citizens, passengers, workers and businesses are experiencing on a daily basis is simply incredible. the lion's share of this, of course, is mainly borne by the member states and their governments, mr minister, who have shown zero willingness to cooperate and who, as has been said, hold key powers in this area. however, the commission has a big problem: how is it that it has only now put forward proposals on crossborder mobility and cooperation? did you really think we had it all figured out in june? how is it possible in a united europe that the authorities of some member states refuse to recognise any type of covid-19 test carried out in another member state for a citizen of the european union? do laboratories and doctors in each member state operate according to different standards or are inferior tests used? and belgium is an example of that, you come to belgium and the test of another country just doesn't recognize you. why is there still no harmonised methodology for the collection and assessment of the number of infected persons, nor a harmonised methodology for seismographs? because of these missing methodologies, the data on the infected are being miscalculated, which then leads to the member states making the wrong changes to their traffic lights, and so on and so on and so on. colleagues, europe simply has to wake up! if we do not wake up now and show the added value of european integration in time, the european union as we know it will end up in the hands of its own citizens. i hope that the resolution we are all working on will also contribute to the fact that we are all reflecting and that this resolution will be perceived by both the council and the commission not as something from the european parliament but as a document with which they must start working because it contains the views of european citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i've been really worried these last few days. in june and july, we had made it. the number of people infected was very, very low in almost all european countries, and we had corona pretty much under control. now the numbers are exploding in many parts of europe, and unfortunately we have to find additional deaths in some countries as well. autumn and winter, with the fact that the coronavirus spreads more easily indoors - eighteen times more easily - are just around the corner. that is why we need targeted action and we need joint action. because even the acceptance of what we decide to contain will not increase if each country does something different and no one sees through it. and only then can we build trust. finally, a word to the lady on the right who has unfortunately left her seat. it was said that there was no european solidarity. so, we all did not work well enough, and ursula von der leyen rightly apologized to italy. but to say that there was no solidarity is to mock the nurses and many others who have taken in patients and saved lives, also in other european countries. you can't just let that go to waste.
madam president, we can win the fight against the corona, but if we are to do so, we must do so together, as the events of this spring have shown us. try to remember back to spring, specifically the beginning of march. the coronavirus was ravaging europe, we had miles of queues at border crossings, and millions of europeans were thrown into uncertainty. uncertainty about whether they would get sick, when they would be able to visit their family again on the other side of the border, but also about whether they would be able to get the food they needed. looking back on that time, i'm glad we've come a long way. we have succeeded in ensuring that goods can circulate freely in europe. we have managed to make joint purchases of medicines and supplies and we have agreed to support each other with historically large aid packages. we have coordinated all this within the eu and this has helped to reduce the uncertainty that has been present, but we are not there yet. we must do more, and the corona crisis has also shown us that we have some weaknesses. we still have platforms that sell dangerous goods online without being removed. we still have airlines that have not reimbursed customers, and we also do not have mutual recognition of cross-border coronavirus tests. there are still a lot of things we need to do and we have to do them, because otherwise we will not have a well-functioning internal market, and we will not have what we need. on the other hand, i also know that if we want to, we can do things, at least if we do them together.
president barley, commissioner reynders, minister roth, a few weeks ago, we were watching in dismay how for one european country all the other european countries were red zones. for another, only certain areas were red, and brussels itself was red for other european countries. different countries have different definitions of what a covid case is and what a red zone is. i ask you, what kind of union is it where 'red' means something in berlin, something in brussels and something else in bucharest? in the midst of this health crisis, the european union must speak with one voice. after what happened in february, march and april, the european citizen can no longer accept any hesitation on our part. populism and misinformation feed off our misery. maya angelou said, "when you know more, you should do more". i think we know more now than we did in april, and doing more today means creating a common language for this crisis and common action for member states. herr roth, you must not only convince us. you must be the minister of trade. the time of the experts is over, the experts have spoken, the ministers of health need to make policy decisions.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? covid-19 has hit europe very hard. not least, many people have been hit hard by the health crisis through illness, and loved ones have been hit hard by too many deaths. we also know that people suffer from the restrictions and limitations imposed, sometimes rightly, but sometimes unfortunately because of tools that have gone wrong. i do not want to contribute to any one-sided blackmail of what has been done. i think the way the eu has responded and the way the member states have tried to act have been important policy tools to prevent the pandemic from spreading. people have also come forward. the health sector has made heroic efforts. doctors have helped patients across borders. however, there are things we should be careful about - we have already seen tendencies not only towards protectionism, but also towards populism in the spirit of the crisis. this is not the direction we should take in the future. i am one of those who really want to protect free movement and who see with great concern how people now have difficulty travelling between our countries and across our borders. i am thinking of a young generation of students who may not be brave enough to study in another country. the consequences for europe of attacking freedom of movement can be far-reaching.
member of the commission. madam president, mr secretary of state, members of parliament, first of all, thank you for sharing your views on the situation, but above all your concerns, because the covid-19 pandemic has had a profound impact, as you mentioned, on our lives. it's changed the way we live, work and travel and our relationships with family and friends. no one escaped its consequences. i would like to start by saying that the commission responded quickly, from the beginning of the pandemic, to the call of a large number of citizens, businesses and public authorities. it has made significant efforts to ensure rapid and close coordination between member states in all areas, including and especially in those which have a direct impact on the lives of citizens. in particular, the commission adopted a series of guidelines and recommendations on border management and free movement. i have heard mr schwab, mrs trillet-lenoir and mrs de sutter speak about this free movement. as early as 30 march there were recommendations on frontier workers, seasonal workers and selfemployed workers, particularly those in difficulty. from the outset, proposals for coordination have been put forward and these efforts must continue and above all be intensified so that we can better protect the single market and the freedom of movement, which, as we know, is deeply attached to european citizens. the lack of coordination means that we must now do everything we can to win or regain the confidence of the citizens. that is why, i repeat, from the beginning and again this summer, the commission took the initiative, because from the beginning of august, without wasting time, when the new situations in a number of member states emerged, efforts were made to strengthen a coordination which was clearly lacking. on 7 august we sent a letter to all the member states recalling the principles applicable to restrictions on free movement. this letter was followed by a technical document which further developed some of these principles. and i would like to make it clear on a number of points, depending on the questions, that with regard to the mutual recognition of tests, mrs cerdas' recommendation, in particular, goes in that direction and also advocates this mutual recognition of tests. in the same way, we are working on a common method of data collection; mrs konečná has alluded to it. common methods have already been provided by the european centre for this collection of tests at national level. work is now continuing to do the same at regional level. i would also like to clarify the situation with regard to vaccines. i have seen the question from mr bourgeois and ms rivasi about that and first of all we have a robust, now complete, portfolio with six promising vaccine candidates. i want to say that we are also in more advanced discussions with one because one agreement has been signed was with astrazeneca on august 27. the vaccines will have to meet all the necessary safety requirements and be approved by the european medicines agency and the product liability directive remains fully in force. the agreements allow member states to indemnify the manufacturer but patents and consumer rights remain fully in force so we are continually applying the same rules and maybe some comments on two other questions that i heard during these discussions. i want to insist on the fact that citizens who exercise their right of free movement, ms. cavazzini, and their family members are exempt from the travel restrictions currently in place. as for eu citizens who have not exercised their right to free movement, we know that several schengen states also allow entry for unmarried partners. we have repeatedly encouraged the remaining member states to follow this broad interpretation of the free movement of rules in order to give unmarried couples the possibility to reunite after months of separation, so it is important to insist on that. this is not of course about hungary. we have sent a letter to the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior to find out what the reasons are for a possible differentiation between some nationals and others. i'm thinking about the countries of the visegrad group and so of course we try to understand why it's possible to make such a differentiation. we have received a response and will analyse that, but you know that we don't want to have discrimination between different national people at the eu level and it's not a discussion for the moment about hungary. in conclusion, i would like to return to the proposal for a recommendation sent to the german presidency and to the council. in fact, on 4 september we adopted this proposal for a recommendation in favour of a coordinated approach which would, inter alia, provide common criteria and a common colour code to draw a common map at european level on the basis of the same criteria and would allow better access to information for all actors. this is in line with the idea of communicating once a week about changes in measures that could occur depending on the map's evolution. the commission is of course still available to work closely with the member states and in particular - as i said - with the german presidency of the council to advance our joint efforts in this direction.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank you for this resolute call for better coordination, for closer cooperation, for the principle of mutual learning. but i'm also asking for fairness. none of us -- not you, not me, not anyone else -- had a master plan or a blueprint in the drawer to do what we thought was necessary and perhaps better in retrospect after the pandemic broke out. if a member of this house, who comes from the same country as i do, is making demands on the european union and in particular on the council, then i should like to describe my experience in a federal country like germany, where we have not even managed to introduce uniform regulations for 16 federal states. so your ambition, which i share in principle, is already reaching its limits in federally organized countries. and there are reasons for that. these may be reasons which we do not all share in common. but there are also reasons to think about at least once. i am very grateful to the commission for this, but the situation in the border regions is particularly dramatic because we have seen that borders which no longer play any role in people's daily lives - or in the daily lives of the economy - suddenly cause great pain when they are reintroduced, in fact, by border controls. this is perhaps a little different in countries which do not have this close cooperation in the border regions. in total, 186 000 people in the european union have died from or with corona. it was a great tragedy. we have had very different reactions. germany has taken a different path from italy and france, partly because in parts of italy and france the pandemic has raged quite differently from what it did in most of us. sweden has gone a completely different way. science argues, and that's reassuring because there are no absolute certainties. and that's why i have a problem with your accusation that we've wasted time. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. because until there is a vaccine, we don't know for sure whether this pathway is better or that pathway is better. and the fact that this is such an emotionally charged issue has to do, above all, with the fact that it's really about human lives, about protecting human lives. and i did not mean to defend the member states in any way. i just wanted to make it clear that we all feel this doubt in our hearts, no matter what member state we come from. but again, it is important that we learn from this crisis and that we apply the principles of the internal market, that we do not abandon the principles of schengen, but that we try to bring the necessary health protection in line with what europe is at its core. the debate here has been extremely helpful in this respect, and also for the further discussions in the council. i would like to thank all those who have spoken. we take this very seriously and i would very much like to continue this dialogue with you.
in writing. – with acknowledging the fact that in several member states covid-19 cases have increased significantly since the beginning of summer, we also must declare that the restrictions some members states put in place have not been in line with the actual risk level. such as closing the hungarian borders at time of low infection rates. the four freedoms, including the free movement of people, goods and services are essential for a well-functioning internal market. uncoordinated, unilateral decisions of the member states are strongly fragmenting the internal market. we cannot expect from citizens or businesses to be able to comply with so diverse measures (such as quarantine for 7, 10 or 14 days; different traveller locator forms; different country ‘colours’; different measures on mask use obligations etc.). especially when those are also rapidly changing and not always announced well in advance. beside preserving the integrity of the internal market and also the schengen area we need: to harmonise restrictive measures, based on data provided by ecdc; common colour code and regional approach at risk mapping; mutual recognition of pcr results in member states; a harmonised ‘eu traveller locator form’ and to rebuild trust between member states.
in writing. we are facing a challenge of unprecedented proportions which requires coordination by all member states. cooperation and understanding are the basis of the european project, and that is precisely what this joint resolution seeks to promote. for months we have seen the appearance of unilateral measures by some member states, such as discrepancies in the designation of risk areas or countries and even in the health measures to be applied (such as quarantines). if the virus doesn't understand borders, neither should we. more than ever, we must be united in the fight against the coronavirus. we must see it as an opportunity to emerge from this crisis strengthened and better prepared for future similar events. this is the message of this joint resolution and we call on the member states to take note.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has caused an unprecedented shock to both the european and global economies, as well as significantly affecting the lives of almost all citizens worldwide. after a few months of fighting the virus, we have partially adapted to the new reality, but at the same time there is a great need for better coordination between member states. there is no doubt that what businesses and citizens alike need in this particular situation is predictability. the common market and the schengen area are our outstanding european achievements and we must do everything we can to ensure that they function safely and stably. the lack of predictability and clear rules on how to deal with the pandemic at european level creates uncertainty and a loss of confidence among europeans, the need to hold back on decisions and generates unnecessary costs. i therefore call for the adoption of harmonised actions between member states in relation to the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.
in writing. just a few months ago, many people in europe thought that the worst of the covid-19 pandemic was behind us. meanwhile, in recent weeks, we've seen an increase in the number of cases and consequently an increased pressure on health services. has the commission made good use of the quieter holiday period to prepare for the second wave of the crisis? is it prepared to coordinate the actions of individual member states in order to avoid chaos and to take care of the interests of the most vulnerable citizens? i call on the commission, in close cooperation with the council and the individual member states, to urgently strengthen coordination on restrictions directly affecting freedom of movement. key restrictions for people travelling for the purpose of carrying out their work and supporting their families. the commission should also be able to verify the validity of the travel authorisation issued by the competent authorities of the member states. finally, i would caution the commission and the council against attempts to pass on the cost of compulsory testing to citizens travelling for important purposes such as studies or strictly professional duties, such as drivers or flight crew. there can be no allowance for additional costs for europe's already experienced citizens, especially if they result from neglect at the level of the commission and the council.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis has clearly shown that eu countries need to work more together on a number of issues, rather than acting unilaterally. it is also important that when common measures are adopted, they are also followed by all countries. the consequences of unilateral action were seen only recently in the case of unilateral decisions to close national borders within the eu, which paralysed schengen and which is still being pursued by hungary, which has banned entry to citizens of other eu countries. there could also be, for example, a common understanding of the rules of the air so that there is no artificial creation of flight restrictions. this will require much more effort from the 27 member states to reach common positions.
in writing. mr president, honourable presidents of the council and the commission! the european commission has recently published for consultation a council recommendation on the establishment of restrictions on free movement for the prevention of the covid-19 pandemic, which provides for the introduction of uniform criteria for restrictions on the movement of persons in the eu member states. while the recommendations are intended to reduce the negative impact of the pandemic on national economies, such a uniform and simplified approach would be contrary to the more stringent criteria set individually by individual countries, including latvia, and developed by local experts with a deeper and more detailed understanding of the health protection capabilities of their own citizens. it is not acceptable to define a universal solution without assessing the individual capacities of the member states, including the capacity of the healthcare system. the imposition of a special status allowing the self-isolation requirements to be waived for seasonal workers, as well as for diplomats and staff of international institutions is also not justified, as neither the status nor the position occupied confers immunity to the virus. the latvian government should use this pandemic time to take care of inviting its citizens to return to life in latvia, using both eu financial resources and fiscal liberalisation to this end. this is an opportunity for latvia to reverse the unfavourable flow of migration of citizens and improve the demographic situation in the country. this document will be of a recommendatory nature only. i have high hopes that the latvian government will be able to choose the best possible protection for its citizens, taking into account not only economic but also all other criteria.
in writing. faced with the brutal impact of an unexpected pandemic, for which the scientific community had little knowledge of immediate application, member states put in place proximity and containment responses. these responses have gradually been coordinated within the european union, particularly in terms of information sharing and the search for solutions and equipment, of which the joint stock of potential vaccines is a striking example. we need to go further. the resolution under debate identifies key areas where member states need to coordinate their action, whether in terms of health practices and protocols, the re-establishment of supply chains for goods and services in the single market, the simplification of public procurement for the purpose of containing the pandemic, or the gradual re-establishment of the conditions for the free movement of persons. we are living in an exceptional situation which has called for and demands exceptional responses. the more coordinated the responses are in risk assessment and communication, information sharing and protection of the freedoms that were the foundation of the european union, the more effective they will be.
we shall now proceed to the vote on the dossiers as indicated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 5 p.m. to 6.15 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as has been used and has been applied in the previous voting period. all votes shall be by roll-call and members may verify their votes cast in the votes by consulting the document which will be published on the website of the plenary session. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 6:15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced as scheduled at 9 a.m. tomorrow. the sitting will be suspended after the end of the second part-session at 6.15 p.m. as i said, it will be resumed tomorrow at 9:00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. we'll move on to the vote.
the agenda calls into question the statement by the president of the commission on the state of the union (2020/2696 ((rsp)). it's a highly anticipated appointment. so much has changed this year under the european sky and of course there is a lot of attention to what president von der leyen will tell us.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most courageous minds of our time, andrei sakharov, a man so much admired by this parliament, always spoke of his unshakable faith in the hidden power of the human spirit. in the last six months the europeans have shown all this strength. we've seen it with the caregivers who moved into nursing homes to care for the sick and the elderly, with the doctors and nurses who became family members for the sick as they breathed their last, and with all the frontline workers who, day and night, week after week, took risks for all of us. their empathy, their courage and their sense of duty inspire us, and i would like to begin this speech by paying tribute to them. (applause) i would like to thank their stories also reveal a lot about the state of our world and the state of our union. they show the power of humanity and the sense of mourning which will live long in our society. and they expose to us the fragility all around us. a virus a thousand times smaller than a grain of sand exposed how delicate life can be. it laid bare the strains on our health systems and the limits of a model that values wealth above well-being. it brought into sharper focus the planetary fragility that we see every day through melting glaciers, burning forests and now through global pandemics. it changed the way we behave and communicate keeping our arms at length, and our faces behind masks. it showed us just how fragile our community of values really is, and how quickly it can be called into question around the world and even here in our union. but people want to move out of this corona world, out of this fragility, out of this uncertainty. they are ready for change and they are ready to move on. and this is the moment for europe. the moment for europe to lead the way from this fragility towards a new vitality, and that is what i want to talk about today. honourable members, i say this because in the last few months we have rediscovered the value of what we hold in common. as individuals, we have all sacrificed a piece of our personal liberty for the safety of others. and as a union, we all shared a part of our sovereignty for the common good. we turned fear and division between member states into confidence in our union. we showed that it is possible and what is possible when we trust each other and we trust the european institutions. and with all of that, we choose to not only repair and recover for the here and now, but to shape a better way of living for the world of tomorrow. this is nextgenerationeu. this is our opportunity to make change happen by design, and not by disaster or by diktat from others in the world. to emerge stronger by creating opportunities for the world of tomorrow, and not just building contingencies for the world of yesterday. we have everything we need to make this happen. we have shaken off the old excuses and home comforts. we have the vision, we have the plan, we have the investment. it is now time to get to work. this morning, i sent a letter of intent to president sassoli and chancellor merkel, on behalf of the german presidency, outlining the commission's plans for the year ahead. i will not present every initiative today but i want to touch on what our union must focus on in the next twelve months. honourable members, the people of europe are still suffering. it is a time of deep anxiety for millions who are concerned about the health of their families, the future of their jobs, or simply getting by at the end of the month. the pandemic and the uncertainty that goes with it is not over. and the recovery is still in its early stage. so our first priority is to pull each other through this and to be there for those who need it. and thanks to our unique social market economy, europe can do just that. it is above all a human economy that protects us against the great risks of life illness, ill-fortune, unemployment and poverty. it offers stability and helps us better absorb shocks. it creates opportunities and prosperity by promoting innovation, growth and fair competition. never before has that enduring promise of protection, stability and opportunity been more important than it is today. allow me to explain why. first, europe must continue to protect lives and livelihoods. this is all the more important in the middle of a pandemic that shows no sign of running out of steam or intensity. we know how quickly numbers can spiral out of control, so we must continue to handle this pandemic with extreme care, responsibility and unity. in the last six months, our health systems and workers have produced miracles. every country has worked to do its best for its citizens. and europe has done more together than ever before. when the member states closed borders, we created green lanes for goods. when more than 600,000 european citizens were stranded all over the world, the eu brought them back home. when some countries introduced export bans for critical medical goods, we stopped that and ensured that critical medical goods should go where they were needed. we worked with european industry to increase the production of masks, of gloves, of tests, of ventilators. our civil protection mechanism ensured that doctors from romania could treat patients in italy, or that latvia could send masks to its baltic neighbours. and we achieved all that without having full competences. so for me, it is crystal clear: we need to build a stronger european health union. it is time to do that. (applause) and to start making this a reality, we must now draw the first lessons from the health crisis. we need to make our new eu4health programme future proof. this is why i had proposed to increase funding and i am grateful that this parliament is ready to fight for more funding and to remedy the cuts made by the european council. and we need to strengthen our crisis preparedness and management of cross-border health issues. as a first step, we will propose to reinforce and empower the european medicines agency and ecdc, our centre for disease prevention and control. as a second step, we will build a european barda, an agency for biomedical advanced research and development. this new agency will support our capacity and readiness to respond to cross-border threats and emergencies, whether of natural or deliberate origin. we need strategic stockpiling to address supply chain dependencies, notably for pharmaceutical goods. and as a third step, it is clearer than ever that we must discuss the question of health competences. i think it is a noble and urgent task to do this for the conference on the future of europe. (applause) and finally and because this was a global crisis we need to learn global lessons. this is why, along with prime minister conte and the italian g20 presidency next year, i will convene a global health summit next year in italy. this will show europeans that our union is there to protect them all, and this is exactly what we have done when it comes to workers. when i took office, i vowed to create an instrument to protect workers and businesses from external shocks. because i knew from my experience as a minister for labour and social affairs that these schemes work. they keep people in jobs, they keep the skills in companies and of course they keep smes in business. these smes are the motor of our economy and they will be the engine of our recovery. this is why the commission created the sure programme, and i want to thank this house for working on it in record time. if europe has so far avoided mass unemployment seen elsewhere, it is thanks in large part to the fact that around 40 million people applied for short-time work schemes. the speed and unity of purpose means that 16 countries will soon receive almost eur 90 billion from sure to support workers and companies. from lithuania to spain, it will give peace of mind to families who need that income to put food on the table or to pay the rent. and it will help protect millions of jobs, incomes and companies right across our union. this is real european solidarity in action and it reflects the fact that in our union the dignity of work must be sacred. but the truth is that for too many people, work no longer pays. dumping wages destroys the dignity of work, penalizes the entrepreneur who pays decent wages and distorts fair competition in the single market, and this has to stop. this is why the commission will put forward a legal proposal to support member states to set up a framework for minimum wages. everyone must have access to minimum wages either through collective bargaining or through statutory minimum wages. i personally am a strong advocate of collective bargaining and the proposal will fully respect national competencies and traditions. we have seen in many member states that introduced collectively-bargained minimum wages how a well-negotiated minimum wage secures jobs and creates fairness both for the workers and for the companies really value them. minimum wage work, and it is time that work paid. (applause) the second promise of the social market economy is that of stability. by showing it was united and up to the task, europe provided the stability that our economies needed. i will not forget when the crisis hit, the commission immediately triggered the general escape clause for the very first time in our history. we have made our european funds and state aid rules more flexible. authorising more than eur three trillion in support to companies and industry: from fishermen in croatia to farmers in greece, from smes in italy to freelancers in denmark. the european central bank took decisive action through the pepp programme. the commission proposed nextgenerationeu in record time, thus combining investment with much needed reforms. the council endorsed it in record time. this house is working towards voting on it with maximum speed. honourable members, for the first time and for exceptional times europe has put in place its own common tools to complement national fiscal stabilisers. this is a remarkable moment of unity in the european union, and this is an achievement we should take collective pride in. we made that! (applause) now is the time to hold our race. we've all seen the forecasts. we can expect our economies to start moving again after a 12% drop in gdp in the second quarter. but as the virus lingers so does the uncertainty here in europe and around the world. so this is definitely not the time to withdraw support. our economies need continued policy support and a delicate balance will need to be struck between providing financial support and ensuring fiscal sustainability. in the longer term there is no greater way to stability and competitiveness than through a stronger economic and monetary union. confidence in the euro has never been stronger. the historic agreement on nextgenerationeu shows the political backing that it has. and we must now use this opportunity to make structural reforms in our economies and complete the capital markets union and the banking union. deep and liquid capital markets are essential to give businesses access to the finance they need, and they need it to grow and invest in recovery and in the future, and they are also a prerequisite to further strengthening the international role of the euro. so let's get to work and finally complete this generational project. the third enduring promise is the promise of opportunity. the pandemic reminded us of many things we may have forgotten or we may have taken for granted. we were reminded how linked our economies are and how crucial a fully functioning single market is to our prosperity and to the way we do things. the single market is all about opportunity opportunity for consumers to get value for money, opportunities for a company to sell everywhere in europe and opportunities for industry to drive global competitiveness. and for all of us, it's about the opportunity to make the most of the freedoms we cherish as europeans. it gives our companies the scale they need to prosper and a safe haven for them in times of trouble. we rely on it every day to make our lives easier, and it's crucial for managing the crisis and recovering our strength. so let's give it a boost. we must tear down the barriers of the single market. we must cut red tape. we must step up implementation and enforcement. and we must restore the four freedoms in full and as fast as possible. the linchpin of this is a fully functioning schengen area of free movement. we will work with parliament and member states to bring this high up on our political agenda and we will propose a new strategy for the future of schengen. based on this strong internal market, the european industry has long powered our economy, providing a stable living for millions and creating the social hubs around which our communities are built. we presented a new industry strategy in march to ensure industry could lead the twin green and digital transition. the last six months have only accelerated that transformation at a time when the global competitive landscape is fundamentally changing. we too, we have to keep up and this is why we will update our industry strategy in the first half of next year and adapt our competition framework, which should also keep pace. honourable members, all of this will ensure that europe gets back on its feet. but as we pull through together, we must also propel ourselves forward in the world of tomorrow. there is no more urgent need for acceleration than when it comes to the future of our fragile planet. while much of the world's activity froze during lockdowns and shutdowns, the planet continued to get dangerously hotter. we see it all around us: from houses evacuated due to glacier collapse on the mont blanc, to fires burning through oregon, to crops destroyed in romania by the most severe drought in decades. but we also saw nature come back into our lives. we longed for green spaces and cleaner air, for our mental health and our physical well-being. we know change is needed, and we also know it is possible. the european green deal is our blueprint to make that transformation. at the heart of it is our mission to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. but we will not get there with the status quo: we need to go faster and we need to do things better. we looked in-depth at every sector to see how fast we could go and how to do it in a responsible, evidence-based way. we held a wide public consultation and conducted an extensive impact assessment. on this basis, the commission is proposing to increase the 2030 target for emission reduction to at least 55%. (applause) i would like to thank you. i recognize that this increase from 40 to 55 is too much for some, and not enough for others. but our impact assessment clearly shows that our economy and industry can manage this, and they want it. just yesterday, 170 business leaders and investors, from smes to some of the world's biggest companies, wrote to me calling on europe to set a target of at least 55%. our impact assessment clearly shows that meeting this target would put the european union firmly on track for climate neutrality by 2050 and for meeting our paris agreement obligations. and if others follow our lead, the world will be able to keep warming below 1.5 degrees celsius. i am fully aware that many of our partners are far from that but we have to lead, and i will come back to the carbon border adjustment mechanism later. but for us, the 2030 target is ambitious, it is achievable, and it is beneficial for europe. we can do it, and we have already shown we can do it. while emissions dropped 25% since 1990, our economy grew more than 60%. the difference is we now have the technology, we have way more expertise and we have the investment, and we are already embarking towards a circular economy with carbon neutral production. we want to be leading in the world on that. we have more young people pushing for change. we have more proof that what is good for the climate is good for business and is good for us all. and we have a solemn promise to leave no one behind in this transformation. with our just transition fund we will support the regions that have a bigger and more costly change to make. we have it all. now it's our responsibility to implement it, and to make it happen. and i want you at my side and i invite you into this endeavor because we can only do it together. this is our mission at european level, honourable members. meeting this new target will reduce our energy import dependency, will create millions of extra jobs and more than halve air pollution. to get there, we have to start now. by next summer, we will revise all of our climate and energy legislation to make it fit for 55. we will enhance emissions trading, boost renewable energy, improve energy efficiency, reform energy taxation. but the mission of the european green deal involves much more than cutting emissions. it is important, but it is about making systemic modernisation across our economy, society and industry. it's about building a stronger world to live in. our current levels of consumption of raw materials, energy, water, food and land use are not sustainable. we need to change how we treat nature, how we produce and consume, how we live and work, eat and heat, travel and transport. so we will tackle everything from hazardous chemicals to deforestation, to pollution. this is a plan for a true recovery. it is an investment plan for europe, and this is where nextgenerationeu will make a real difference. firstly, 37% of nextgenerationeu will be spent directly on our european green deal objectives. i will ensure that it also takes green financing to the next level. we are world leaders in green finance and we are the largest issuer of green bonds worldwide. we are leading the way in developing a reliable eu green bond standard. and i can today announce that we will set a target of 30% of nextgenerationeu's eur 750 billion to be raised through green bonds. (applause) i would like to thank you. second, nextgenerationeu should invest in lighthouse european projects with the biggest impact: hydrogen, renovation and one million electric charging points. allow me to explain how this could work. two weeks ago in sweden, a unique fossil-free steel pilot began test operations. it will replace coal with hydrogen to produce clean steel. this shows the potential of hydrogen to support our industry with a new, clean, license to operate. i want nextgenerationeu to create new european hydrogen valleys to modernise our industries, to power our vehicles and to bring new life to our rural areas. the second example are the buildings we live and work in. our buildings generate more than 40% of our emissions. they need to become less wasteful, less expensive and more sustainable. and we know that the construction sector can even be turned from a carbon source into a carbon sink, if organic building materials like wood and smart technologies like ai are being used. i want nextgenerationeu to kickstart a european renovation wave and make our union a leader in the circular economy. but this is not just an environmental or economic project: it needs to be a new cultural project for europe. every movement has its own look and feel. and we need to give our systemic change its own distinct aesthetics to match style with sustainability. this is why we will set up a new european bauhaus a co-creation space where architects, artists, students, engineers and designers work together to make that happen. this is nextgenerationeu. this is shaping the world we want to live in. a world served by an economy that cuts emissions, boosts competitiveness, reduces energy poverty, creates rewarding jobs and improves quality of life. a world where we use digital technologies to build a healthier, greener society, and this can only be achieved if we all do it together. and i will insist that recovery plans not only bring us out of the crisis, but also help us propel europe forward into the world of tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let's imagine for a moment that this pandemic will be without digital technology. quarantine completely isolated from family and community, cut off from the working world, with many problems of care. so or so similar must it have looked 100 years ago at the last pandemic. a century later, modern technology allows for a worst pandemic, young people to learn from home, and millions of people to work from home. it enables companies to keep production running and their products to sell, and it enables public administrations to provide important services to citizens. we have in a few weeks more digital innovation and transformation than in years. but we stoßen an die grenzen dessen, was we auf analogem wege noch tun können. and this digital acceleration has just begun. the coming year must be europe's digital decade. and we need a common plan for a digital europe with clearly defined goals for 2050. we need goals for 2030, among others in the fields of connectivity, digital competence, public administration and many other fields. and we need clear principles: the right to privacy, the right to access, free expression, free flow of data and cybersecurity. the european union must lead now. or it will be long before others have to follow, and then standards will be set for us. that is why we must act quickly, and we must act decisively. there are three areas, which we must concentrate on in my opinion: the first date. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment. this is not allowed in the industrial data. and yesterday is the good news: yesterday is europe in führung we have the technology, and we have above all the industry, which we need to do so. but the race is not yet won. the amount of industrial data in the world will quadruple in the next five years and so will the opportunities associated with it. this means that we must now open up the possibilities for our enterprises, our small and mediumsized enterprises, start-ups and researchers to create. industrial data are gold-worth when it comes to developing new products and services. the reality is not so different: 80% of the industrial data collected are unfortunately not used. that's a huge waste. a real data economy would be a powerful engine for innovation and for new jobs. and that is why we must make this data safe and widely accessible for europe. these are being strengthened by innovation clusters, in which universities, enterprises and research institutions can access data securely and work together. this is why we are building a european cloud on the basis of gaia-x as part of nextgenerationeu. the second area on which we must concentrate is technology and in particular artificial intelligence. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, by the end of the year, and the council will then decide on the matter. that is to say, algorithms must not be a black box, and there must be clear rules if something goes wrong. the commission will adopt a corresponding law next year. this also includes control over our personal data, which we have today very rarely. every time a website asks us to create a new digital identity or to log in to a large platform, we have no idea what actually happened to our data. and that has to stop. the commission will therefore shortly propose a secure european digital identity. one, that we trust and that citizens everywhere in europe can use, and do, everything from taxation to driving. a technology where we can control what data is exchanged and how it is used. this is our understanding of a human-centred technology, which we control, which serves us. the third point is infrastructure. the data links must be kept at a fast pace. if we are to have a europe of equal opportunities, then it cannot be that 40% of people in rural areas still do not have access to fast broadband connections. broadband connections are today the prerequisite for online learning, home office, online shopping and many, many services, which are being created every day. and without broadband connectivity, a company simply cannot be run, or even built up. this means that these fast data are the prerequisite, but they are also a great opportunity for the revitalization of rural areas. only then can these rural areas reach their full potential and also attract people and investment. the investment scheme by nextgenerationeu is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to expand to the last village in the country. we therefore want to focus on the development of secure connectivity, the development of 5g, 6g and glasfaser. nextgenerationeu is also a unique opportunity that we should take advantage of to develop a common european approach to connectivity and to the expansion of digital infrastructure. the european union is a global player in the field of information technology. in diesem sinne freue ich mich, investitionen von 8 milliarden euro in die nächste generation von supercomputern can be announced. the european commission has also announced that it will be investing €8 billion in the next generation of supercomputers. this is the best technology made in europe! (beifall) and we want european industry to develop its own next generation microprocessor that will allow us to use the increasing amounts of data in an energy efficient and secure way. all that and much more for me to hear about europe's digital decade! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is above all about giving europe more control over its future. we have everything we need to make this a reality. the private sector is urgently in need of a plan. there is no better time to invest in european technology companies than in sofia, lisbon and katowice to build new digital clusters. we have the people, we have the ideas, we have the investment capacity, and as a european union we will succeed. therefore we will invest 20 percent of nextgenerationeu in the digital. we want to go with the european way into the digital age based on our values, our strengths and our ambitions. honourable members, europe is determined to use this transition. to build the world we want to live in, and that of course extends well beyond our external borders. the pandemic has simultaneously shown both the fragility of the global system and the importance of cooperation to tackle collective change. and in the face of the crisis some around the world choose to retreat into isolation. others actively destabilize the system. europe chose to reach out. our leadership is not about self-serving propaganda. it is not about europe first. it's about being the first to seriously answer the call when it's needed. in the pandemic, european planes delivering thousands of tons of protective equipment landed everywhere from sudan to afghanistan, somalia to venezuela. we know none of us will ever be safe until all of us are safe and we know wherever we live, whatever we have, there has to be access, affordable and safe access, to vaccines, treatments and diagnostics. at the beginning of the pandemic, there was no funding, there was no global framework for a covid-19 vaccine, there was just the rush to be the first one to get one. this was the moment when the european union stepped up to lead the global response with civil society, with the g20, with the who and others, we brought more than 40 countries together to raise 16 billion euros to fund research on vaccines, on tests, on treatments for the whole world. and this is europe's unmatched convening power we can be so proud of. it is not enough to find a vaccine, we need to make sure that european citizens and those around the world have access to it. and just this month the european union joined the covax global facility and contributed eur 400 million to help ensure that safe vaccines are available not only for those who can afford it but for everyone who needs it. because we know vaccine nationalism puts lives at risk, only vaccine cooperation saves lives. (applause) i would like to thank you. honourable members, we are firm believers in the strength and value of cooperating and international bodies. it is with a strong united nation that we can find long term solutions for crises like libya and syria. it is with a strong world health organization, that we can better prepare and respond to global pandemics or local outbreaks, be it corona or ebola. and it is with a strong world trade organization that we can ensure fair competition for all. but the truth is also that the need to revitalize and reform the multilateral system has never been more urgent. our global system has grown into a creeping paralysis. major powers are either pulling out or they are taking the institutions hostage for their own interests, and neither road will lead anywhere. (applause) and this is why i want the european union to lead reforms on who and wto so that they are fit for today's world. but we know that multilateral reforms take time, and in the meantime the world will not stop. without any doubt there is a clear need for europe to take clear positions and quick actions on global affairs. two days ago the latest eu-china leaders meeting took place. the relationship between the european union and china is simultaneously one of the most strategically important and one of the most challenging we have. and from the outset we have said china is a negotiating partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival. we have common interests on issues such as climate change, and china has shown it is willing to engage through a high-level dialogue but we expect also china to live up to its commitments in the paris agreement and to lead by example. in the economic field there is still hard work to do on a fair market access for european companies - reciprocity and overcapacity. and we continue to have an unbalanced trade and investment partnership. and there is no doubt that we promote very different systems of governance and society. we believe in the universal value of democracy and the rights of the individual. europe is certainly not without issues, think for example of growing anti-semitism. but criticism and opposition, we discuss them here publicly. criticism and opposition are not only accepted, but they are legally protected, there is an open debate about all these issues. so we must call out human rights abuses whenever and wherever they occur, be it in hong kong or be it with uyghurs. (applause) but what holds us back? why are even simple statements on eu values delayed, watered down or held hostage for other motives? when member states say europe is too slow, i say be courageous and finally move to qualified majority voting, at least on human rights and sanctions implementation. (sustained applause) this house has called many times for a european magnitsky act and i can announce that we will now come forward with a proposal, we need to complete our toolbox. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, whether in hong kong, moscow or minsk, europe must take a clear and swift position. and i want to say it loud and clear. the european union stands with the people of belarus. (applause) we have all been moved by the immense courage of those peacefully gathering in independence square or taking part in the fearless women's march. the elections that brought them to the streets were neither free nor fair, and the brutal response by the government ever since has been shameful. the people of belarus must be free to decide their own future for themselves, they are not pieces on someone else's chessboard. (applause) and to those who advocate closer ties with russia, i say that the poisoning of alexei navalny with an advanced chemical agent is not a one-off. we have seen the pattern in georgia, and in ukraine, in syria and salisbury, and in election meddling around the world, and this pattern is not changing and no pipeline will change that. (applause) turkey is and will always be an important neighbour. but while we are close together on the map, the distance between us appears to be growing. yes, turkey is in a troubled neighborhood and yes it is hosting millions of refugees for which we support them with considerable funding, but none of this is justification for attempts to intimidate their neighbors. our member states, cyprus and greece, can always count on europe's full solidarity in protecting their legitimate sovereignty rights. (applause) i would like to thank you. de-escalation in the eastern mediterranean is in our mutual interest. the return of exploratory vessels to turkish ports in the past few days is a positive step in this direction. this is necessary to create the much needed space for dialogue, refraining from unilateral actions and resuming talks in good faith, is the only path forward. the only path to stability and lasting solutions. honourable members, as well as responding more assertively to global events, europe must deepen and refine its partnerships with its friends and allies and this starts with revitalising our most enduring partnerships. we may not always agree with recent decisions of the white house but we will always cherish the transatlantic alliance, based on shared values and history and an unbreakable bond between our people. so whatever may happen later this year, we are ready to build a new transatlantic agenda, to strengthen our bilateral partnership, be it on trade, on tech or taxation, and we are ready to work together on reforming the international system we built together, jointly with like-minded partners. for our own interests and in the interest of the common good, we need new beginnings with old friends on both sides of the atlantic and on both sides of the channel. the scenes in this very room when we held hands and sang goodbye with auld lang syne, spoke a thousand words, and they showed an affection for the british people that will never fade. but with every day that passes the chances for a timely agreement do start to fade. negotiations are always difficult and we are used to that and the commission has the best and most experienced negotiator, michel barnier, to navigate us through that. but talks have not progressed as we would have wished and that leaves us very little time. as always, this house will be the first to know and it will be the one that has the last say, and i can assure you we will continue to update you thoroughly just as we did with the withdrawal agreement. this withdrawal agreement took three years to negotiate and we worked relentlessly on it, line by line, word by word and together we succeeded and the result guarantees our citizens' rights, financial interests, the integrity of the single market, and crucially, the good friday agreement. and the european union and the uk jointly agreed that it was the best and only way to ensure peace on the island of ireland and we will never back down on that and this agreement has been ratified by this house and by the house of commons. it cannot be unilaterally changed, disregarded or dis-applied. this is a matter of law and trust and good faith. (applause) and that's not just me saying it. i remind you of the words of margaret thatcher. i quote, "britain does not break treaties. it would be bad for britain, bad for relations with the rest of the world and bad for any future treaty on trade, end of quote. this was true then and this is true today. (applause) i would like to thank you. trust is the foundation of any strong partnership and europe will always be ready to build strong partnerships with our closest neighbours. this starts with the western balkans. the decision six months ago to open accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia was truly historic. indeed the future of the whole region lies in the european union. we share the same history. we share the same destiny. the western balkans are part of europe and they're not just a stopover on the silk road. we will soon present an economic recovery package for the western balkans focusing on a number of regional investment initiatives. and we will be there for the eastern partnership countries and our partners in the southern neighbourhood, to help create jobs and kick-start their economies. when i took office, i chose for the very first trip outside the european union to visit the african union, and it was a natural choice. it was a natural choice and it was a very clear message because we are not just neighbours, but we are natural partners. three months later i returned with my entire college to set out the priorities for new strategies with africa. it is a partnership of equals where both sides share opportunities and responsibilities. africa will be a key partner in building the world we want to live in, whether it is on climate, digital or trade. honourable members, we will continue to believe in open and fair trade across the world, not as an end in itself but as a way to deliver prosperity at home and promote values and standards. more than 600,000 jobs in europe are tied for example to trade with japan, and our recent agreement with vietnam alone helped secure historic labor rights for millions of workers in the country. we will use our diplomatic strength and economic clout to broker agreements that make a difference, such as designating marine protected areas in antarctica. this would be one of the biggest acts of environmental protection in history. we will form high ambition coalitions on issues such as the digital ethics of fighting deforestation and we will develop partnerships with all like-minded partners from asian democracies to australia, africa, the americas and anyone else who wants to join. we will work on just globalisation. we cannot take this for granted. we must insist on fairness and a level playing field, and europe will always move forward alone or with partners to do that. i want to come back to the carbon border adjustment mechanism. carbon must have its price because nature can't pay this price anymore. and this carbon border adjustment mechanism should motivate foreign producers and eu importers to reduce their carbon emissions, while ensuring that we level the playing field in a wto compatible way. the same principle applies to digital taxation. we will spare no effort to reach agreement in the framework of oecd and g20. but let there be no doubt, should an agreement fall short of a fair tax system that provides long-term sustainable revenues, europe will come forward with a proposal early next year. i want europe to be a global advocate for that. (applause) i would like to thank you. honourable members, if europe is to play a vital role in the world, it must also create new vitality within, and to move forward we must now overcome the differences that held us back. the historic agreement on nextgenerationeu shows that it can be done and the speed with which we took decisions on fiscal rules, state aid or sure, all these show it can be done. so let's do it now! migration is an issue that has been discussed long enough. migration has always been a fact for europe and it always will be. throughout centuries, it has defined our societies. it has enriched our cultures and it has shaped many of our lives and this will always be the case. as we all know, the 2015 migration crisis caused many deep divisions between member states, with some of those scars still healing today. a lot has been done since, but a lot is still missing. if we are all ready to make compromises, without compromising on our principles, we can find a solution. next week, the commission will put forward its pact on migration. we will take a human and humane approach. and there are principles, saving lives at sea is not optional. (applause) i would like to thank you. and those countries that fulfil their legal and moral duties or are more exposed than others must be able to rely on the solidarity of our whole european union. we will ensure a closer link between asylum and return. we have to make a clear distinction between those who have the right to stay and those who do not. we will take action to fight smugglers, strengthen external borders, deepen external partnerships and create legal pathways. and we will make sure that people who have the right to stay are integrated and made to feel welcome. they have a future to build and skills, energy and talent. i think of suaad, the teenage syrian refugee who arrived in europe dreaming of being a medical doctor. within three years she was awarded a prestigious scholarship from the royal college of surgeons in ireland. i think of the libyan and somali refugee doctors who offered their medical skills the moment the pandemic struck in france. and last year i told you the story of muaz, whom i had the honor to meet. he is studying physics today in europe. honourable members, if we think about what they have overcome and what they have achieved, then we simply must be able to manage the question of migration together. the images of the moria camp are a painful reminder of the need for europe to come together. (applause) everyone has to take a step up here and take responsibility, and the commission will do just that. the commission is now working on a joint pilot plan with the greek authorities for new camp on lesbos. we can assist with asylum and return processes and significantly improve the conditions for the refugees. but i want to be clear. if we step up, then i expect all member states to step up too. migration is a european challenge, and the whole of europe must do its part. (applause) we must rebuild the trust among us and move forward together and this trust is at the very heart of our union and the way we do things together. it is anchored in our founding values, our democracies and in our community of law, as walter hallstein used to say. this is not an abstract term. the rule of law helps protect people from the rule of the powerful. it is the guarantor of our most basic, everyday rights and freedoms. it allows us to give our opinion and to be informed by a free press. before the end of the month the commission will adopt the first annual rule of law report covering all member states. it is a preventive tool for early detection of challenges and for finding solutions. i want this to be a starting point for commission, parliament and member states to ensure there is no backsliding. the commission attaches the highest importance to the rule of law and this is why we will ensure that money from our budget and nextgenerationeu is protected against any kind of fraud, corruption or conflict of interest. this is non-negotiable. (applause) but the last few months have also reminded us how fragile, it can be. we have a duty to always be vigilant, to care and nurture for the rule of law and breaches of the rule of law cannot be tolerated. i will continue to defend it and the integrity of our european institutions, whether it be about the primacy of eu law, the freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary, or the sale of golden passports, european values are not for sale. (applause) honourable members, these values are more important than ever. i say that because when i think of the state of the union, i am reminded of the words of john hume, one of the great europeans who sadly passed away this year. if so many people live in peace today on the island of ireland, it is in large part because of his unwavering belief in humanity and conflict resolution. he used to say that conflict was about difference and that peace was about respect for difference. and as he so rightly reminded this house in 1998 and i quote, 'the european visionaries decided that difference is not a threat. difference is natural. difference is the essence of humanity. end of quote. and these words are just as important today as they ever have been because when i look around we ask ourselves, where is the essence of humanity when three children in wisconsin watched their father shot by police while they sat in the car? where is the essence of humanity when anti-semitic carnival costumes are openly paraded on our streets? where is the essence of humanity when every single day roma people are excluded from society and others held back simply because of the colour of their skin, or their religious belief? i am proud to live in europe in this open society of values and diversity, but even here in this union these stories are daily reality for so many people, and this reminds us that progress on fighting racism and hate is fragile. it is hard won but very easily lost. so now is the time to make change, to build a truly anti-racist union that goes from condemnation to action, and the commission is putting forward an action plan to start making that happen. as part of this we will propose to extend the list of eu crimes to all forms of hate crime and hate speech, whether because of race, religion, gender or sexuality, hate is hate and no one should have to put up with that. (applause) we must strengthen our racial equality laws where there are gaps. we will use our budget to address discrimination in areas such as employment, housing or health care. we will get tougher on enforcement when implementation lags behind, because in this union fighting racism will never be optional. we will improve education and knowledge on the historical, cultural causes of racism. we will tackle unconscious bias that exists in people, in institutions, well, yes, and even in algorithms, and we will appoint the commission's first ever anti-racism coordinator to keep this at the top of our agenda and to work directly with people, civil society and institutions. the commission has already taken a number of decisions. i will not rest when it comes to building a union of equality. a union where you can be who you are and love who you want without fear and recrimination. (applause) because being yourself is not your ideology, it is your identity, and no one can ever take it away. so i want to be crystal clear. lgbtqi-free zones are humanity free zones and they have no place in our union. (applause) and to make sure that we support the whole community, the commission will soon put forward a strategy to strengthen lgbtqi rights. as part of this i will also push for mutual recognition of family relations in the eu, because if you are a parent in one country you are of course a parent in every country. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, this is the world we want to live in, a world where we are united in diversity and adversity, working together to overcome our differences and supporting each other in times of adversity. the stronger, more respectful and healthier world of tomorrow that we are building today, for our children. but while we're trying to teach our children about life, our children are teaching us about life. this year has shown us just how true that is. we can talk about the millions of young people calling for change for a healthier planet, or the hundreds of thousands of beautiful rainbows of solidarity displayed in windows across europe by our children. there's an image that's been stuck in my head for the last six months, an image that captures the world through the eyes of our children. this is a picture of carola and vittoria, the two young girls playing tennis on the rooftops of liguria, italy, during the lockdown. it's not just the girls' talent and courage that comes out of this image, it's the lesson behind it, a lesson to never let obstacles stand in our way, a lesson to never let convention hold us back and to always seize the moment. this is what carola, vittoria and all the young people of europe teach us about life every day. this is the next generation of europe, nextgenerationeu. and this year, europe followed suit and took a leap forward, together. when it came to finding a way for our future, we did not let old conventions hold us back. when we felt the fragility around us, we seized the moment to give new vitality to our union. and when we had the choice to go it alone, as in the past, we used all the strength of the 27 to give all 27 a chance for the future. we've shown that we're in this together and we're gonna get out of it together. ladies and gentlemen, the future will be what we make it and europe will be what we want it to be. so let's stop belittling it and work to build it, to make it strong and to build the world we want to live in. the european union is a great example of this. the european union is a great power. the european union is not a party to the treaty.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me start first with a thank you. your state of the union speech today marks the end of the first year of your mandate and the mandate of all of us. it was for sure a challenging year, but you managed it, and together with the whole commission team, i want to thank you. i also want to thank the colleagues in the european parliament, because in the last year we have shown unity and good cooperation in the house, despite all our political differences. we have shown europeans that we speak with one voice when it matters most. the state of the union speech is an important point in our agenda, and we as the epp fully support the main line of your speech. it is about health, migration, the rule of law and a europe without hate. i want to focus my contribution on our main title – how can we address the fears of europeans after the crisis, or during the crisis? how can we answer this? and our main message is that we have to now show credibility. for the european people’s party, the headline of the upcoming weeks is jobs, jobs and jobs. take italy, where 40% of young people are still unemployed. we can never accept another lost generation in today’s european union. when we insist on a 5g network for europe, and a project to fight against cancer, and the idea of a new battery technology, it’s not just about showing eu flags on billboards and how much money we spend, it’s about delivering on jobs. you can spend recovery fund money only once, and our priority is the future of europe’s young generation. let us now use one-third of the recovery funds to finance a pact for european jobs. for us, credibility means immediately starting the digital catch-up. you spoke about this. but, i must ask, where are the initiatives from the commission? we have had green papers, we have had white papers, but no real progress has been made. and that is what we need. we can probably even have a kind of digital act like we do the climate act, to prioritise things – investment in infrastructure and investment in technologies. for us credibility means finalising an ambitious but realistic green deal to stimulate new and innovative jobs. for us credibility means screening all eu legislation to check if it stimulates jobs or not. now is again the time to cut the bureaucratic burden and to reinforce the single market. and credibility means that the recovery fund must protect and support european interests and – let me be frank – not chinese ones. that’s why we need clear rules. no money from european taxpayers in the pockets of state-owned companies from china. the second point i want to underline concerns the external dimension. because credibility means that we have to speak with one voice in the world. belarus and russia. 30 years ago, people in budapest, dresden and warsaw went out and fought for democracy and freedom. 12 years ago kiev and now minsk. lukashenko said in an interview a few days ago that if belarus falls, russia will fall. i say it in my words: the idea of free people is going to the east and no-one can stop it, neither lukashenko nor putin. we are credible, and the people out on the streets in minsk see that europe is on their side. after the navalny case, all options of further sanctions must be on the table: as you yourself said, even stopping the nord stream 2 project. and one word to our colleagues from front national, salvini and syriza. we are here to serve european citizens. a true patriot is never putin’s puppet. and turkey is the second subject for external affairs. while the greek government is ready to accept the decision of the international court of justice on the gas dispute, turkey is sending warships, is breaking international law in syria, suppressing free media and stoking religious tensions with its decision on hagia sophia. so i ask, are we credible when turkey still wants to join the european union? i say no, that is not credible, and when erdoğan attacks our family, we – especially the german presidency – cannot be a fair mediator. we have to be close to our friends in cyprus and greece. that is why we are a union of values. and finally, on brexit, here too the need for credibility is really, really big. it makes no sense to negotiate a future agreement in the face of a british prime minister who is throwing out of the window the agreement that he himself signed. great britain, you are losing your credibility on the global level. what i can say is that the european parliament can never vote for any trade agreement with great britain if we cannot trust each other. so the upcoming months will be extremely challenging. they will shape europe. let’s show our citizens that europe shows solidarity and first of all credibility. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the state of our union. we have to make an accurate diagnosis so we can get the prescriptions right. the situation, let us be clear, is not good. and it's not, because the pandemic has shocked us in ways we didn't expect. but covid has also made more evident the need to address other problems that we've been dragging around for so long. i am referring, for example, to the common management of migration, which would have spared us the situation and the shameful episode of moria. i am referring to the incomplete instruments for managing the euro. i am talking about our own resources, which are now very small. but there is one thing we have definitely got right. and that is that the response to this crisis is not going to be the same as in 2008. because this time we will give a response focused on people and solidarity. not in austerity, not in macro conditionality. this is your first speech, mrs von der leyen. and i thank you for the efforts you have made to listen to this parliament. a year ago, neither you nor i could have imagined what was going to happen. the great challenge of ecological and digital transformation is now joined by the need to address the health, social and economic impacts of covid, which are many, and to do so in a context of total uncertainty. and if we do not manage it well, we risk feeding anti-european and anti-systemic discourse. the conference on the future of europe will soon begin and we have to see what the results are, but we cannot wait for its conclusions. people are waiting for us. wait for the europe. and the worst thing we can do is disappoint them. we have been talking for decades about own resources and european taxation, the financial transaction tax, for example. it is totally unacceptable that the burden of taxation in europe should fall on the incomes and pockets of working men and women, and not on the big financial movements and speculators. there are other proposals we should also discuss. but we have to decide, because only then can we invest in the ecological and digital transition, taking into account the social dimension as well, without leaving anyone behind. now is the time to invest in the resilient europe that the strategic perspective has set out for us. we welcome the fact that it has committed itself to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. my group has been fighting for that for a long time. but let's not forget that caring for people is also part of sustainability. and now more than ever we must insist on an anti-poverty strategy, including the child benefit and a framework directive on the minimum wage. the german presidency has accepted our proposal for a minimum income system which we hope will be successful. now we need to reform economic governance. suspending the fiscal pact until 2022 was a good decision and now we must also open ourselves to a possible golden rule for sustainable investment. this crisis threatens our societies because it can open insurmountable gaps. social cohesion is one of our hallmarks, something we are proud of in europe, and we must protect it. we must also protect a sector of culture, which has been severely punished, and which is also an element of social cohesion and of shared identity and integration. you have referred, mrs von der leyen, to the european bauhaus and i am proposing to you today the creation of a european cultural card for young people and the unemployed, in coordination with the member states. it will be an instrument for strengthening the european cultural fabric and stimulating a mature and critical european citizenship. ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental decision that we have to make, quite frankly, and that is our values. it is alarming to see the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states. it's not enough to raise your voice, there have to be consequences. there is no democracy without judicial independence. and it is unacceptable that there are cities in the union that declare themselves free of lgbti people. it is a very dangerous drift which must be stopped and we call on the council to adopt a common position immediately to start negotiations on the rule of law mechanism. i said at the beginning of my speech that the state of the union is not good, but also, let me be frank, i do not see any other place in the world where i would like to live at the moment. it is precisely because we have the capacity, the values and the institutions to deal with this crisis in a way that is both supportive and effective that i refuse to resign. we refuse to give up. the public has high hopes for us. please, let's not disappoint them.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, europe has made considerable progress in recent months. the recovery plan is undoubtedly a historic step forward and embodies the union's strength and our ability to overcome crises together. we have started to build a civic europe in the true sense of the word. have the nationalists or anti-europeans been heard in the last few weeks? they started to get caught up in their own arguments that denigrated the european project and today they have little to say that is relevant. they want to hide the fact that they need this recovery plan - just like all the other europeans - because they need europe too. obviously, they will never admit it, but today it is increasingly clear that the nationalist project is becoming increasingly irrelevant, because europe is doing its job and it is concrete and it is direct. so it's time to be clear about our values, not just when we want money from the european union. there is no possible compromise between a europe of investment and a europe of values. europe is not one or the other, it can only be both. the rule of law is not an alternative, it is a key principle for you, madam president, for the commission, for parliament and for the council. because what will happen to the citizens' trust that we have gained these days if, in a year or two, we read articles in the press showing how money from the recovery plan or from the future budget is flowing into the pockets of those who have found their calling as autocrats in our union? a weak judiciary in one member state undermines the credibility of the rule of law in europe as a whole. the council wanted more flexibility in the use of european funds, but the sums involved are colossal and they are debts made on behalf of european citizens. the financial interests of the union should therefore be protected against corruption and conflicts of interest. the rule of law is not an abstraction and it is your responsibility to stand with parliament in this fight, as well as in the fight for own resources, for a new budget, because that is how we start to build europe. then, each of our decisions must enable our citizens to gain sustainable prosperity. an important step has just been taken for european climate law with the setting of an ambitious target of 55% for reducing carbon emissions. and you have responded here, madam president, to a request for an impact assessment that renew europe made, and i congratulate you, and thank you for that. it's an exemplary and historic decision that when we make a decision like this, we have to have an impact assessment. we're now waiting for a digital law that opens the way to independence in terms of processors, data encryption, cloud storage, as you said. these everyday technologies are shaping the way we live our lives in the future. it would be irresponsible to rely on countries outside the union for such strategic things and i welcome your decision to set aside at least 20% of the budget for this type of investment. building a green and digital europe must inspire confidence, not fear, but for that, let us build without administrative constraints and without restrictions on freedoms. to create the conditions for a positive transition towards a new relationship with natural resources through digital, social and economic innovation. let us build a europe that does not waver in the face of a british prime minister who is beginning to lose his bearings or a turkish leader who has a visible nationalist fever and a putin eager to sow discord. a europe that does not leave rural territories behind with an agriculture where digital and greening are not there to create bureaucracy, but to generate income for farmers and welfare for the consumer. madam president, europe must be a beacon of stability in the face of citizens' anxieties and offer solutions to uncertainties and fears. we've provided some good answers in the last few months, but the crisis hasn't gone away. more than ever, people expect a europe that is concrete, reactive and present where it is needed. we will win if we know how to generate solidarity through what we decide and do. thank you. thank you.
i call today's first round of voting open. voting will be open from 1 p.m. to 2:15 p.m.
the agenda includes the continuation of the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the state of the union (2020/2696 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman of the board! mr. president, thank you for your eloquent speech. i am pleased that the european union is taking seriously our backwardness in research and development and the implementation of new technologies. investing €8 billion in the development of quantum computing is the right and timely step. it is also positive that many other developments related to the digital revolution are creating better living and working environments for our people and expanding their opportunities. the establishment of a functioning digital infrastructure in rural and peripheral areas is a much-needed activity. there are no simple, linear solutions to the challenges we face today. the health crisis caused by covid-19 is one of the best examples. but in addition to the virus that affects our daily lives, the security environment around us is also a matter of great concern. you did not address the issues of increasing the european union's defence capability. i think we cannot be satisfied with the fact that there is nothing that can be done about the pattern of behaviour that has developed in russia. stopping the construction of the nord stream 2 pipeline would perhaps be a clear signal to the russian leadership that somewhere there is a limit. the european union has not yet shown that we have a common and clear understanding of the security threats that threaten us. a clear example is the significant reduction in defence spending in the next financial framework. what steps do you think would adequately address these challenges?
mr president, let me express my gratitude to you for your speech today on the state of the union. firstly, because it effectively addresses the major challenges facing europe, indeed the world, but above all because it outlines a project for the future. a future and a project that is hopeful, and that is what europeans need most today. in your project, i see a red thread, and that is that the human being is back in the center. for example, by ensuring that all europeans have the right to a decent wage, and that means a project on a minimum income in europe. for example, by re-emphasizing the importance of the mandate of our colleague mr timmermans in the european green deal, which also puts people back at the centre. because saving the climate doesn't mean saving the earth. the earth will save itself. no, i'm not going. that means saving humanity. and speaking of humanity - and i thought that was particularly important and i want to emphasize that very strongly, and you have the support of our whole group for that - humanity has no sustainable future if human rights are not at the centre of it. and your steadfast commitment to hate in europe, to anti-semitism, to women's rights, to all those rights of the lgbtq community. you have really touched my heart, and i think that is, quite frankly, a hopeful project for the future, which makes me proud of our european values and makes me even more proud to be a european today.
mr president, mr von der leyen, as the pandemic progresses, wounding our citizens and changing our lives, the social market economy offers a safety net. this is the achievement of our europe, and we thank you very much for it from the bottom of our hearts. but the european union, as a global player, is called upon to take three courageous decisions, starting, in my view, with a realistic redefinition of our relationship with turkey. is there any member of the european parliament or commissioner here who believes that turkey's accession prospects are alive and well? turkey is violating international law. turkey is violating the arms embargo on libya. turkey is violating the rule of law. turkey is turning world heritage sites into mosques. turkey is threatening the sovereign rights of two member states. it is time to lead turkey, as the european union, to respect the rule of law. it is time for us as the european union to lead turkey in compliance with international law. the second brave decision is genuine solidarity with the refugee. you will indeed bring the new package. but this new package must include mandatory responsibility sharing, because there are countries that are reaping the benefits of the european union, are being monitored for the application of the rule of law, and at the same time do not apply any of the rules of solidarity. as europeans we need rules, 'solidarity rules', and we must apply them. and the third decision is about our strategic autonomy. it is essential that the new era goes hand in hand with tackling climate change, digitization, and the ability to leave no one behind. let us give our citizens, madam president and commissioners, the security, the opportunities, the protection and the lives they deserve.
mr president, madam president of the commission, the european union has long since ceased to be an experiment and has become a political fact, unique in history. however, the european union is at a crossroads today. in the first weeks of the pandemic, many asked whether the european union would emerge from this crisis the same, changed, or not emerging at all. in a short time, the coronavirus has threatened the european union's heritage built over the past decades. with your state of the union address, you offered grounds for new european optimism as a follow-up to the agreement reached last summer and to the high expectations of citizens who are indeed feeling the effects of economic hardship unprecedented in recent times. let's take advantage of the crisis, implement the green deal, continue the process of digitalisation, launch the health union, invest more in science and research, relying on a strong cohesion policy. for example, the islands have shown through energy transition that small steps can have a big impact. our recovery and growth must be sustainable, and the disbursement of european funds must be based on the rule of law. strengthen the common foreign and security policy through smart decision-making and renewed enlargement policy to ensure a stronger union in an increasingly chaotic international environment.
mr president, i also want to thank mrs von der leyen for her enthusiasm and motivation. in fact, this is not just a debate on the state of the union. this is a debate about the survival of the union. europeans and the world need a strong and resilient european union. madam president, you have understood that we need concrete measures, direct messages that address the problems that each of our fellow citizens is experiencing right now, quick responses with a sense of solidarity to the immediate challenges posed by the pandemic. we must launch a new cycle of hope. respond, recover, and transform. we must respond by putting into practice the instruments of solidarity that we already have, but we must put them into practice. recover by adapting institutional processes and having own resources. and to turn it with all the strategies we know, in digital, in energy, in the multilateral affirmation of the european union. it's a challenge we have to rise to.
mr president the european union has perhaps never faced a challenge as it is facing now. but these extraordinary times have brought extraordinary deeds out of europe. it was here that the biggest eu rescue package of all time was born, protecting european jobs and european citizens. but there is a prime minister in europe, a man named viktor orbán, who is threatening to veto this package, simply because it contains the rule of law conditional system. the reason is simple, they don't want the rule of law clause because they want to steal this eu money from hungary. i ask you, fellow members of the house, to ask yourselves: the honest european citizens you represent are working to make viktor orbán the richest man in hungary with their money? whose system has taken over the biggest hungarian internet newspaper, occupies and abolishes klubradio, and now has launched a cultural militant attack against the old hungarian university, the university of fine arts, and i just talked about the last few weeks of the orbán regime. because if that is not what the european citizens you represent are working for, then i ask you to stick to the rule of law clause, because by doing so you are not only protecting europe, but you are also protecting millions of decent hungarian people from their own thieving government.
madam president of the commission, two points, the first on the united kingdom and the message is simple, we want a good agreement for a future relationship that serves the interests of both parties, but the european union cannot make the second agreement with someone who says he will not honour the first. it's as simple as that. for there to be a new agreement with the united kingdom, as we want, the government of boris johnson must ensure full respect for the withdrawal agreement it has signed, which is a clear obligation under international law. the second message is this: the european union faces many challenges, but none is more decisive than meeting the aspirations of its citizens in responding to this devastating economic crisis caused by the pandemic. the council's proposal can and must be improved in the negotiations with parliament, but everyone must remember the essential point: money must reach the economy, and it must reach the real economy quickly. european citizens would not understand any more delays and to fail to respond to the crisis is to fail at everything and to jeopardise the european project.
president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, listening to today’s debate, we are seeing where the state of our union is, and this is the sign of a very strong democracy. it shows all the ideas, all the projects and all the demands. it also reveals a lot about this period of uncertainty and change we are in. i listened carefully to your demands, to your fears, to your anxieties and questions, because your voices are the voices of the european people that you represent. so thank you very much for this enormously inspiring debate over many hours. i heard what you said on the urgent need to come forward with a european solution to europe’s challenge on migration, and i think i heard the message – like my message – that we need to step up. all of us. as i said, next wednesday the commission will come forward with a new pact on migration. at the heart of it is a commitment to a more european system. i can announce that we will abolish the dublin regulation and we will replace it with the new european migration governance system. it will have common structures on asylum and return and it will have a new strong solidarity mechanism. i’m very much looking forward to the debate. let’s discuss this. there will be points where we agree and there will be points where we disagree. i heard very interesting proposals that we should take into account. i know that i’m partly preaching in the wrong church when i say that, at the very end, the most important part is that we come to a result, but i know that the german presidency, at our side, also wants a result on the migration topic. so i’m looking forward to the next days and weeks, when we’re going to discuss that subject.beim thema klimaschutz – ich habe das chinesische sprichwort sehr wohl gehört, ich zitiere den kollegen: „fordere viel von dir selbst, erwarte wenig von den anderen“. wenn ich mal den ersten teil nehme, den kann ich voll unterschreiben: „fordere viel von dir selbst“. es ist richtig, wir müssen zeigen, dass es möglich ist, erfolgreich zu wirtschaften, ohne raubbau an unserem planeten zu treiben. ich setze auf die kraft unserer ingenieure, unseres mittelstandes, der kleinen und mittleren unternehmen, die häufig zu recht heute erwähnt worden sind und die zeigen können, dass innovation und klimaschutz eben doch hand in hand gehen können. zu recht ist angefordert worden vom kollegen pieper, dem mittelstand bei diesen diskussionen ganz konsequent seinen raum einzuräumen. wir sind uns völlig darüber im klaren, es geht nur mit dem mittelstand. ohne den mittelstand wird es nicht gehen, nur mit dem mittelstand. aber umgekehrt wissen wir auch, der mittelstand ist das rückgrat unserer wirtschaft, der mittelstand zeichnet sich aus durch diese fähigkeit, in den vielen, vielen feldern, in nischen, innovationen zu machen, die dann dazu führen, dass wir in diesen nischen weltmarktführer sind. also diese innovationen nutzen, die nischen nutzen, nach vorne gehen, das ist das signum unseres mittelstandes, und darauf setzen wir auch hier bei dem fortschritt, den wir brauchen. wir können zeigen, dass die kreislaufwirtschaft funktioniert. wir können zeigen, dass produktionen ohne treibhausgasemissionen möglich sind. heute ist öfter der begriff „wasserstoff“ zu recht gefallen, die leuchtturmprojekte, die wir gemeinsam auf den weg bringen werden. wenn es zum zweiten teil des sprichwortes kommt „erwarte wenig von den anderen“, da bin ich nicht mehr damit einverstanden. wir müssen sehr viel von den anderen erwarten, das heißt, dass ich nicht leugne, dass maximal 10 % der treibhausgasemissionen von uns europäern sind. aber umgekehrt wird doch ein schuh daraus. wenn wir mal den carbon border adjustment mechanism, den co2-grenzausgleichsmechanismus nehmen: am liebsten wäre mir, wir müssten ihn nicht einführen, nämlich, dass andere länder, die zum beispiel zu uns exportieren – also wir hier importieren –, dass andere länder ihr ets-system, ihr emissions trading system so gut einrichten, dass sie von mir aus gerne den preis auf co2 setzen, dieses geld zu hause bei sich behalten, und wir nicht durch einen carbon border adjustment mechanism die schranke einsetzen müssen, dass wir nicht ein carbon leakage haben. andere länder müssen ebenfalls vorangehen, aber wir haben in europa zurzeit die technologieführerschaft, und ich setze darauf, weil ich der festen überzeugung bin, dass die menschheit alles tun wird, um diesen tödlichen klimawandel zu stoppen. wir wissen, was passiert, wenn wir ihn nicht stoppen – zu recht wurde gesagt: „dem planeten macht es zum schluss nichts aus, aber der menschheit auf dem planeten?“ wenn wir diesen klimawandel stoppen wollen, dann wird es um diese neuen technologien gehen. dann möchte ich, dass europa vorne ist, dass europa diese technologien in die welt exportiert, dass europa in der lage ist, zu zeigen, dass es funktioniert, und dass wir der exporteur sind. china führt jetzt ein emissions trading system ein, sie haben bei uns – und das ist gut – erfahrung damit gesammelt, das ist der schritt in die richtige richtung. wenn wir zeigen, dass wir einen erfolgreichen binnenmarkt, eine erfolgreiche europäische soziale marktwirtschaft haben können mit gleichzeitigem klimaschutz, mit der transformation über den european green deal und das digitale, dann sind wir auf dem richtigen weg. es kam bei dem thema nextgenerationeu die bemerkung aus schweden: warum sollten die schweden das eigentlich machen, nextgenerationeu mittragen? „why give money?“ war so ungefähr der satz. well, i just want to answer that i met with ceos from sweden. one ceo from a very well—known car company explained to me that his car company is actually very important in sweden. it’s a car company that is giving its share to the prosperity of the country and is creating good and qualified jobs. but he told me that his company cannot build a single truck in sweden on its own because it needs spare parts from other eu member states and it needs supply chains all over europe. so it is in the common interest of sweden and the european union that we bounce back to prosperity and restore the supply chains. this is going to pay back sweden a thousand fold, and is the right investment to make. so this should be the answer we give to the question that was raised. throughout history, wars and pandemics have changed the course of the world. that is certainly true for our continent and it will certainly be true for this pandemic. in front of us is the opportunity of a lifetime to shape that change. the change will happen, but let’s shape that change and not be shaped by it. but we can only do that if we do this together. what i heard today was – not in all cases but in the vast majority of cases – most encouraging. i invite all of you to embark on this historic journey together. you listened to me – for quite a while, i know – and i listened to you. i think we have a plan, we have the investment and i think this will now be the year of implementation, implementation, implementation. for me this is the most important part now. many times have i heard: ‘yes, the concept is right, yes, they are good ideas, yes, you have a roadmap, yes you have the investment, now implement, deliver, deliver, deliver’. our duty is to design our destiny and i want to go on this journey together with you. (applause)
mr president, president von der leyen, you said it yourself, now is the time for implementation. now we had the announcement of which we share many of them, but of course the important task is to put all of that into life, and i want to thank you for your strong words when it comes to human rights, be it on the human rights of refugees, of lgbti people, also human rights in russia and in china. the question is, what are the consequences of those words? how will we put them into action, into life, what action will follow? i think it’s very important to make sure that our policies are coherent so that we’re not exporting weapons and then are surprised about refugees, that were not subsidising fossil fuels and then wondering about climate change, and that we also don’t put profits over human rights when it comes to our external relations – and i’m thinking about relations with china, where there’s lots of important talks going on, but also, for example, when it comes to russia. thank you very much and good luck. we’re ready to support you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mrs von der leyen, you gave us a most pathetic speech today on the state of the union. this is a very careful title for your speech. but it is ultimately just another shameless label scam by the commission. the reason is clear: it is a reproduction of the state of the union speeches, as we know them from the presidents of the united states, or the state of the union speeches, as european heads of state and government sometimes make them. the only problem is that the united states of america is a state, germany, france and italy are states. the european union is not a state, and you, mrs von der leyen, are not a head of state, no matter how much you wish to be one. you can make so many long speeches about the state of the union. and i assure you that we will fight hard against your far-fetched plans to develop the eu into a state with its own rights of exploitation for its citizens by granting taxation and, more recently, debt powers. the eu - remember this - is not a state, and we will do everything in our power to ensure that it never becomes one. if you are going to use the usual hypocrisy of this house and the commission to show us that we are anti-european or even that we are enemies of europe, then i say to you: we are not the real enemies of europe here, you are! the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are now using the corona crisis, which is indeed a crisis, but not such an unprecedented disaster as you are trying to make us believe, quite deliberately to claim ever more powers at eu level, where they are in no way justified. covid-19 is actually very important to you. you speak of an unprecedented response in an unprecedented crisis. they see it as a welcome opportunity for ever-wider community. you speak of a recovery fund as if we were at the end of a disastrous war with devastated cities and millions of dead to mourn, as was the case in 1945. this is bullshit! it's a deliberate, targeted over-writing of this crisis that we have with covid-19 and also with the completely over-blown lockdowns of economic life that we actually have. your so-called counter-measures through debt and taxation orgies, madam president, will not help us out of the crisis. on the contrary, i tell you, it will make the crisis worse, because it will lead us down a completely wrong, essentially socialist path. it is no coincidence that the greens and the communists are the loudest applauders in this house. so i ask you, how blind can you be to history? the lessons of the 20th century, which was terrible for hundreds of millions of people, have not yet been grasped. you are on a fatal wrong track, the price will be enormous, not for you personally, but for the citizens whose interests you pretend to represent here.
mr president, president von der leyen, today you undertook a lot of commitments, which is the right way to do things, but i think now the expectation of people is to start to deliver. after one year of mandate, after more than six months of this crisis, i think now, a lot of people are waiting for us to deliver results, to come with the legislative proposals. first of all, in order to give credibility to all this project and to all this amount of money committed on behalf of europeans, i think we have to insist on two main things, and you mentioned this in your intervention today. first of all, to clearly connect money with values, resources with values. this is an important pillar for a real european union and second to reinforce new own resources. this is the only way to build a real european project. we expect very clear results in this direction. i hope that the commission will be on behalf of parliament in order to fight for that. so if the first step in order to rebuild our european credibility was to come with a plan, with a vision, this is done, in my opinion. now the second step is to start to deliver and to implement these results and we have to work together on it, because i heard here about people who don’t hear or don’t see really what’s happened. i think only those who don’t want to, didn’t perceive the fact that we have really made progress.
in writing. we are pleased that the commission sees europe as more than just a single market. social measures such as european minimum wages and a climate-neutral europe where everyone can participate are badly needed. the european commission has shown that it understands this. at the same time, von der leyen is ignoring essential issues such as the rule of law and migration. we believe that she should have focused more on the refugee crisis and in particular the disaster in the moria refugee camp. we therefore expect clear plans from the commission to help these people in need. the commission has also addressed the lgbti community, but the commission must go beyond simply putting a heart under their belt. we can no longer allow money to go to european regions which trample on our values. that's never an issue with us.
in writing. the european commission has raised the bar for its decarbonisation ambitions to 55% by 2030. the question is how we will achieve this and what the economic and social costs will be. i think we can only succeed through coordination. that is why i tabled a series of amendments to the recovery and resilience regulation, calling for projects to bring european added value. some examples would be the development of projects on traffic on eu inland waterways (on the danube in the case of romania) or the installation of automated systems on railways. i also proposed developing projects in tourism and aeronautics. a european decision will be needed to oblige member states to invest the 750 billion euro available in these european projects. if only one state invests in the danube and the others do not, then the desired result is not achieved. therefore, coordination is needed at european level and then at national level. as the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen, has shown, things would move much faster if the council decided not by unanimity but by qualified majority. the success of the union's green objectives could also depend on this change, which seems increasingly necessary.
in writing. – during commission president ursula von der leyen’s state of the european union speech, i was pleased to see ambitious and concrete actions regarding digital and technology policy. more concretely, in three main areas: increasing our industrial data cloud capacities so we can obtain the benefits of innovation and economic growth; a human-cantered approach to artificial intelligence and a new law for eu digital identity; investing in broadband infrastructure and connectivity. i welcome all of these commitments on the side of the commission, as i am a firm believer that we will not be able to achieve any of our ambitious sustainable economy goals without technology. we must work towards identifying the investment streams to cater for future breakthrough technologies to help transform existing industries, e.g. steel and cement, automotive, aviation, and more. we must also strive to identify the ecosystem of start-ups and small smes that can come up with the future clean breakthrough technology solutions and can create european technology leadership. if the european union is to meet our ambitious green goals, maintain our global position and ensure a high living standard for our citizens, we must continue to be at the forefront of technological advancements.
in writing. madam president, i start by welcoming the european commission's sustained efforts to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, as well as today's proposal to increase the 2030 greenhouse gas emission reduction target from the 40% approved by parliament and the council in the previous legislature to at least 55%. the effects of climate change have long been felt in most member states, where thousands of hectares of fertile land are turning into desert every year. we therefore need, and i urge you to do so, an ambitious european action plan with clear objectives and regular evaluations, and the allocation of adequate european funding to prevent and remedy desertification and land degradation in the european union.
in writing. the state of the union address delivered by european commission president ursula von der leyen highlights many positive initiatives by the european commission in its future work. from topics related to the european green deal, to the eu's readiness for the digital age, to strengthening democracy and a stronger eu position in the world. her speech was largely addressed to the heads of state or government of the member states, and she did not mention the budgetary rules for fiscal policies. this suggests that, in the context of the covid-19 pandemic, the focus at the economic level will be more on raising revenues for national budgets than on limiting spending and debt-free member states.
in writing. i appreciate the ambition expressed by the president of the european commission in the european parliament plenary. his first state of the union address is a political success and offers an encouraging perspective to citizens traumatised by the pandemic and the socio-economic crisis. but on one condition: that these good intentions be translated into swift action, in line with expectations. there was prompt cooperation from the european parliament in this critical period to adopt the first measures to support the member states. unfortunately, the largely shared vision of parliament and the commission is being undermined by a council paralysed by the rule of unanimity and the selfish interests of some of the oldest states of the union. european citizens need concrete support to cope with the difficulties they face. i ask the commission to act to ensure that the support from brussels reaches where it is needed most. the health emergency is doubled by a socio-economic emergency. this is the right order of priorities. then we can make plans for 2050. but it is important that these plans, such as the energy transition, are economically and socially sustainable, so that they can be put into practice.
author. – madam president, my appreciation to the colleague for agreeing to use speaking time on the weight of the groups. it takes extreme bravery to be an outspoken defender of human rights in a state crippled by decades of corruption and armed conflict and in which rebel militia groups continue to abduct, rape and murder civilians with impunity. dr denis mukwege, renowned gynaecologist, pastor, nobel and sakharov prize laureate from the democratic republic of congo, has dedicated most of his life to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and armed conflict. nearly 55 000 survivors have been treated in panzi hospital, which he established in 1999. his courage, dedication and strength in denouncing wartime sexual violence made him the international symbol of this struggle. now his life, and those of his co—workers and members of his family, are newly and repeatedly under threat. it is our moral obligation that we defend them with all the means at our disposal. while raising our voice for dr mukwege, we praise all human rights defenders in the democratic republic of congo who still carry out their work in spite of the challenges they are faced with. the epp group welcomes the resolution that urges the government of the drc to undertake immediately a comprehensive investigation into the threats he and other human rights defenders have received. i also welcome that the document calls upon the congolese government and judiciary to prosecute human rights abuses carried out against women in that country. we fully echo dr mukwege’s call for peace and justice, the defence of human rights, the need for accountability and the implementation of the un human rights report mapping abuses.
madam president, i have listened very carefully to my colleagues in this parliament when they talk about making european funds conditional on respect for the rule of law. anyone in the european union who has listened to this debate would have expected to hear experts today or to hear colleagues in this parliament talking about the arguments, the principles, the values and the measurements of what the rule of law means in europe. what we heard today, however, is about the implementation of this mechanism of conditioning european funds under the pretext of respecting the rule of law, in fact, to pressure various states or governments or to condition money for certain governments if they do not accept a certain direction coming from brussels. the whole point of the rule of law is to let the argument beat the majority. there has been talk in this chamber today of the fact that there is a certain majority. but there was no discussion of arguments. a colleague from renew was talking about how this report should, and i quote, "be a professional and objective report". we have the case of the report on romania which is neither objective nor professional.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate should not have taken place, for the simple reason that the rule of law is a fundamental value for democracy and should no longer be the subject of discussion, much less of negotiation between the council and parliament, or of conditionality. but unfortunately we are now in a situation where member states are forcing the internal balances of the rule of law, and this reality can no longer be ignored or hidden under the table! we need effective correction and conditionality mechanisms, we need a mechanism for conditioning governments' access to european money with respect for direct beneficiaries and an effective reverse majority decision-making mechanism. the citizens who voted for us a year ago expect us to be consistent with the fundamental values that define them as nations and all of us as europeans.
in writing. the economic, social and health crisis caused by the coronavirus can only be addressed by a common eu-wide solution. the european union has put on the table a rescue package of unprecedented scale to adequately address the negative economic, social and health impacts of the coronavirus. the commission would attach rule of law conditions to the disbursement of eu funds from the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and next generation eu, which is blocked in the council by, among others, the hungarian government. my fellow members of parliament! we must not give in to the blackmail of populist, far-right governments that are trampling on eu values. we must uphold the rule of law, as we are charged with protecting the interests of the eu taxpayers. the orbán government uses eu funds to enrich its close relatives and friends, not to help the hungarian people. to prevent this, the rule of law condition should be introduced, but in a way that in the case of member states that do not respect union values, the union financial assistance reaches the taxpayers through local authorities and smes. we are fighting to make the european union work in the interests of its citizens!
in writing. negotiations are under way between the council and parliament on making european funds conditional on respect for the rule of law. unfortunately, the positions of the two co-legislators - defined by the council of 17-21 july and by the european parliament resolution i voted for on 23 july - seem difficult to harmonize. i therefore call for the right order of priorities, in line with the reality facing the citizens of the union. let's not forget how hard it was to agree to create the recovery tool at the second longest summit in eu history. but let us not overlook the need to protect the eu budget when a systemic threat to the values that underpin the european project arises. there is a risk that the european parliament will block the adoption of the eu budget for the next seven years unless we see an openness from the council to create the mechanism for making european funds conditional on respect for the rule of law. in order to be operational, this mechanism must be capable of being activated by a qualified majority in the council. countries that joined the eu 16 years ago are experiencing worrying democratic shifts. a european framework is needed to meet the new challenges, without losing sight of the health and economic emergency!
in writing. the european commission published its first rule of law report last week. the report is somber for some member states. the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and democracy are seriously threatened in these member states. this is a matter of great concern, because these european values form the foundation of the european union, on which all european cooperation is built. the european parliament's group leaders, in a joint letter this week, reaffirmed parliament's position that it will not give its consent to the eu's new long-term budget unless the use of funds is linked to the rule of law. parliament is not prepared to accept a rule of law mechanism which would not be able to deal effectively with rule of law problems in the member states where the commission considers that they exist. the present proposal of the council of ministers is far from this. the negotiations on the eu's long-term budget and the linking of the use of funds to the rule of law are the only real opportunity for many years to tackle the negative developments in the rule of law. the eu cannot afford to lose it.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the rule of law and fundamental rights in bulgaria (2020/2793 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any debate at this sitting.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have once again had an opportunity to discuss the rule of law. i would like to make a brief introduction, but i would like to point out again, by giving concrete examples, how serious the council, the german presidency of the council of the european union, is about learning from the experience gained so far and making things better. i would like to reiterate that the rule of law is not just a guiding principle to which the institutions of the european union must submit themselves. no, the rule of law applies to all member states without exception. i am therefore - and i want to emphasize this again - very, very grateful that we now have the opportunity in the council to take a big step forward in order to highlight this common value, the rule of law, democratic culture and not just what unfortunately separates us at the moment. the new rule of law check, based on the commission report, plays a key role in this. we will now have a first debate in october on the general situation of the rule of law in the european union, and we then proposed as the council presidency to examine each country individually. in order to have a sound, objective, non-discriminatory debate, but one which is also fact-based, we will start with five member states. in november, these will be belgium, denmark, estonia, bulgaria and the czech republic, in alphabetical order. we shall also be discussing the situation in the country which is also the subject of your debate today. i welcome your suggestions and your comments, which also show that you agree with us that the rule of law is an obligation for all and not just for a few.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for putting the item on the rule of law and fundamental rights in bulgaria on the plenary agenda today. the commission is aware of the protests in bulgaria and we have been following the situation closely. let me start by being very clear on an important point: the commission fully supports the right to demonstrate peacefully. peaceful demonstrations constitute the exercise of a fundamental right which exists in all democratic countries and must be fully respected. the demonstrations show that citizens attach great importance to an independent and efficient judiciary and also to good governance. the commission is also aware of the announcement made by prime minister borisov on a possible revision of the bulgarian constitution. it is not for the commission to comment at this stage on the details of the proposed reforms. however, we stand ready to support bulgaria in its reform process. as i already said in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) in september, like in any member state, constitutional reform should be subject to a large and inclusive debate, take the time to be able to reflect a large consensus and achieve the necessary checks and balances. a best practice is to seek the specific advice of organisations like the venice commission. now let me turn to the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm). as regards the cvm, as you know, it had been set up at accession to help bulgaria in making reforms and to allow for monitoring this reform process based on a given set of benchmarks to achieve. the commission considers that the cvm has proven to be instrumental in the reform process, which has put in place legal and institutional measures to address the mechanism’s objectives. as underlined in the october 2019 cvm report, bulgaria made sufficient progress to meet the commitments made at the time of accession. the situation now, looked at from the perspective of its institutional and legislative framework, is no longer the situation of 2007. at the same time, in the october 2019 cvm report, the commission was also clear that bulgaria needs to ensure continued implementation of the necessary reforms, notably relating to judicial independence and the fight against corruption. wrapping up any leftover from the accession process has always been the objective of the commission. it emphasises the need for stability, and no backtracking on past structural achievements and continuity, which means pursuit of the implementation of reforms and the fight against corruption and organised crime. before taking a final decision on lifting the cvm in bulgaria, the commission will also take duly into account the observations of the european parliament and also of the council. it would be premature to give a date at this stage. (interruption owing to problems with microphone) mr president, thank you very much for your help. you will see from what i am going to say that it was indeed important, because the only missing sentence was that the commission will continue following the developments in bulgaria. it remains essential that these do not reverse the course of progress underlying the baseline assessment of january 2017. (applause)
member of the commission. – mr president, i will continue with the last words of vice-president jourová, because our work does not stop here, of course, and the commission will continue to work with bulgaria under the new rule of law mechanism, as it does with all the member states. the scope of the rule of law mechanism is broader than the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm) and it covers not only judicial reform and the fight against corruption, but also – as we have discussed just before – freedom and privileges, as well as institutional checks and balances. the rule of law report was just adopted last week and, as i explained in my presentation to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) last week or around then, the report on the country chapters developed for each member state cover the rule of law situation in all of them, including bulgaria. more particularly, as regards bulgaria, let me underline some of the most significant developments taken into account in the report. as regards judicial independence, bulgaria still needs to finalise, taking account of the opinion of the venice commission, legal procedures concerning the effective accountability and criminal liability of the prosecutor—general. in addition, the composition and functioning of the supreme judicial council has been subject of further debate. on a more positive tone, controversial provisions relating to the automatic suspensions of magistrates in case of a criminal investigation and to the obligation for magistrates to declare their membership in professional organisations have been repealed. however, and it also confirms past cvm findings, despite a comprehensive reform of its legal and institutional anti-corruption framework and improved cooperation between the authorities, there is still the need to establish a solid track record of final convictions in high-level corruption cases. it is important that the authorities are provided with sufficient resources in order to be able to fight corruption effectively. the necessary strictures are essentially in place, but bulgaria has to make them deliver reserves more efficiently. lack of reserves in the fight against corruption is one of the key aspects raised throughout the ongoing process. perception surveys show a very low level of public trust in the anti-corruption institutions. it is important to show that there is political will to fight corruption in a credible manner. as to media privilege, the legal framework is in place, but safeguards are often not effectively implemented in practice. in addition, lack of transparency of media ownership is considered a source of concern. finally, the issues concerning checks and balances include concerns about the limited use of public consultations and impact assessments in the legislative process. furthermore, the already narrow civic space in bulgaria could be further affected in view of a new draft law on foreign funding for ngos. to conclude, let me reiterate once more that the commission is determined to continue to use all the instruments at its disposal to address the concerns identified in the country. i am convinced that it is important to look at all the member states in a fully objective and comparable manner. this is what we are now doing with the new rule of law report, and the commission appreciates the continued support of the european parliament in this respect. of course, we have been working for some years about the cvm, but we continue, also, to work with the annual report of the rule of law with a broader scope on all the member states, including bulgaria.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! bulgaria is a country on the way, and it has a long way to go to achieve the standards we have all set for ourselves in europe. yes, it must also be said that in bulgaria not everything is perfect. that's why i think it's good that young people take to the streets, that they demonstrate, that they represent their positions, that they put their ideas on the road. young people in particular have little understanding of the fact that it takes a long time; they want to make rapid progress. that's good to see. the facts about bulgaria were described last week in the commission's report, which is fair, balanced, based on facts and which is intended to be the basis for further work. as i said, however, despite all the challenges that lie ahead, the bulgarians can also be proud of what has been achieved. that too must be recorded. but we are not talking about the general situation today, we are talking about the rule of law. rule of law, for example, is a hallmark of functioning democracy. we have a government of the european people's party in bulgaria and we have a socialist president who has been democratically elected. balance of power two different parties are in charge there. we have the principle that freedom of the media, of opinion must be guaranteed: since summer, there are permanent demonstrations every weekend, young people take to the streets, they can show what positions they have. no one can say that we do not have freedom of the media and of the press and of expression there. bojko borisov has always explicitly protected this will of the young people. he's always protected the protesters, and he said, "go out into the streets and speak your mind!" we must also insist on the rule of law, that you have respect for an election result. the current government has a majority in parliament, elected by the people. so there is absolutely no reason to step down now and put an unelected government in office on a temporary basis, especially in times of corona. it is also true that some progress has been made in the area of the rule of law. the figures for smuggling activities in particular have been significantly reduced. i would also like to say explicitly that boyko borisov is leading a pro-european government. he was one of the initiators of the introduction of the euro, and as we are talking about today, he has always supported the rule of law mechanism in the council, which we are calling for here in the european parliament. boyko borisov wants this rule of law mechanism. so, it remains to say that not everything is perfect, that many tasks still lie ahead of the bulgarian government, but that bulgaria is basically on the right track. to the protesters, just one request and one clarification: change in government is not achieved through demonstrations, but is achieved through elections, by holding elections, and they will take place next year in march, and everyone should participate. then the citizens of bulgaria will decide how to proceed.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we are back to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. is it fun, is it pleasant to bring to this european parliament a resolution expressing concern about the rule of law in a member state? it certainly isn't. but it may be sorely needed: in this case, bulgaria, a newly acceded state, which joined with a cooperation mechanism and verification of its progress in judicial reform and the fight against corruption, but what we have seen in recent times is not progress, but worrying setbacks. 'rule of law' means respect for court rulings, and there are 45 convictions of the european court of human rights pending enforcement according to the report of the committee of ministers of the council of europe. 'rule of law' means separation of powers, and we see continuous allegations and accusations of judicial corruption and political intervention by the prosecutor's office in the prosecution of political opponents. the rule of law also means respect for freedoms, and we see concentration of media by the government and also patronage of those media that remain in private hands. and "rule of law" also means respecting public freedoms, the right to demonstrate, and we have seen examples of police brutality, as well as persecution of minorities. so we express (inaudible words) bulgaria and we say that this does not mean, in any case, a charge against bulgaria. it means that this european parliament, as with hungary, for ten million hungarian citizens, and with poland, for forty million polish citizens, expresses concern for seven million bulgarian citizens who are europeans.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, when we romanians took to the streets in that really cold winter of 2017, i remember we felt quite lonely out there, because i was out there, and then one day, president juncker and vice-president timmermans stood up and they spoke up about it, very clear and very loud. then other voices joined them, including the one of this parliament through a very powerful resolution, and i am grateful for that. you know why? because it didn’t feel cold anymore and we were no longer lonely. i am here today to ask for this voice of the commission and of the council, and of this house, because the bulgarian people need it. because it matters to them, it is really important to them and we owe this to the people. it mattered fundamentally for romania back then and for every single victory of the people and of democracy in romania since then. i have seen powerful names in some of our political families endorsing mr borissov and his team and i just want to ask, do you know who you are endorsing? because you are endorsing a carefully knitted network of people facing serious allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud with european money and a system which is stepping on the rule of law, democracy and european values as we speak. i have seen women dragged outside by the police and pictures of children sprayed with teargas. is this protection? are you sure that this is what you endorse? i am calling for your voice because it does matter to the people and because this voice can make the difference between a captured state and a truly healing democracy. it happened like this in romania, it is for the people of bulgaria and, at the end of the day, they are the ones that matter most. (applause)
in writing. – although there were obvious and loud signs of the deterioration of the political and democratic situation in bulgaria, due to unfortunate political interests, the european parliament took months to finally have a debate on this issue. and even so, it was too brief to cover in depth the complexity of the events in sofia. one of my main concerns is the abuse on the bulgarian journalists, having been persecuted by the government, in ways incompatible with the basic principles of our union, being denied access to crucial decision-making forums and being targeted and smeared by hateful campaigns of denigration. this is why, i salute this resolution regarding the rule of law and fundamental right in bulgaria which calls, rightly so, for the protection of the journalists, the watchdogs of our societies, and asks the bulgarian government to protect them and their freedom of expression, to open investigations on the acts of violence against members of the media and to ensure that authorities respect the freedom of the press and the vital work of the journalists.
the agenda includes the joint discussion on the extraordinary european council meetings of 1 and 2 october 2020 and 15 and 16 october 2020 (2020/2787(rsp) (2020/2788(rsp)).
president of the european council. – mr president, we want a stronger europe to shape a better world. less dependence, more influence. that’s why our last european council focused on strengthening europe, both within our borders and beyond our borders. we discussed how to reinforce our common house. strategic autonomy and open economies are the centrepiece. we also addressed measures for the first issues and took key decisions. we had a comprehensive debate on the situation in the eastern mediterranean and our relationship with turkey. a more stable and predictable eastern mediterranean region is in our strategic interest and we are united towards turkey. we have agreed on a two—track approach: firmness and readiness to engage. eu solidarity with cyprus and greece is unwavering. sovereignty and sovereign rights must be respected. we welcomed the start of a confidence-building dialogue between greece and turkey and we strongly condemned violations of the sovereign rights of the people of cyprus. more steps are needed in that direction. we call on turkey to accept the invitation by cyprus to engage in dialogue to settle all maritime—related disputes and we support the speedy resumption of un—led negotiations and we remain fully committed to a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem within the un framework. many issues need to be discussed, like the sharing of revenue from hydrocarbons. in case of renewed unilateral actions or provocations in breach of international law, we’ll use all the instruments at our disposal to defend our interests and those of our member states. but, of course, our preference is to engage in a positive eu—turkey agenda with a focus on, for instance, the modernisation of the customs union and trade facilitation, people—to—people contact, high—level dialogues and continued cooperation on migration issues. it’s not only about turkey. there are conflicts, disputes and many overlapping challenges across the eastern mediterranean, and that’s why i have proposed a multilateral conference on the eastern mediterranean. we call for a multilateral conference on the eastern mediterranean and we invite the high representative to engage in talks about its organisation. this conference could address issues that need multilateral solutions, including maritime delimitations, security, energy, migration and economic cooperation. on belarus, our goals are clear: first, to end the repression and the violence against the opposition and the population; second, to allow the people of belarus to decide on their future without interference. this means an inclusive national dialogue, which could be facilitated by the organisation for security and co-operation in europe (osce), and those responsible for the violence must be held to account. we, therefore, took the decision on sanctions, which was immediately implemented. we condemn the assassination attempt on alexei navalny with a military chemical nerve agent and we call on the russian authorities to fully cooperate with the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons (opcw) to ensure an impartial international investigation to bring those responsible to justice. we will revert to this issue in two weeks. concerning nagorno-karabakh, we call for a cessation of hostilities and the resumption of peaceful negotiations. external interference, military in particular, is unacceptable. we now have a clear strategy towards china. we want to remain engaged with china. china is a major partner in addressing global challenges like climate change or covid—19. we welcome china’s recent commitment to carbon neutrality by 2060. we have encouraged china to take this path. china is also a key trading partner, but we want a more balanced relationship, with a level playing field and greater reciprocity. we expect our negotiations on the investment agreement to conclude successfully by the end of this year. on human rights, we will not paper over our differences, especially the rights of minorities and the rule of law like in hong kong. mesdames et messieurs, ce conseil européen a aussi été l’occasion de nous pencher sur l’autonomie stratégique de l’union européenne, en lien avec une économie ouverte. cela nous a permis d’affirmer notre ambition de travailler ensemble, non seulement pour réparer le marché intérieur, abîmé par la crise du covid-19, mais surtout pour améliorer le fonctionnement de ce marché intérieur, qui est une valeur centrale au cœur du projet européen. ce fut l’occasion d’affirmer des orientations fortes et ambitieuses sur le terrain numérique, après le terrain climatique. ces deux transitions majeures sont des leviers fondamentaux pour réussir la transformation du projet économique et social sur le plan européen. nous voulons être un leader numérique, nous voulons accélérer les transformations nécessaires, ce qui suppose d’investir et de nous doter des moyens, notamment au travers de la capacité régulatoire inspirée par nos valeurs fondamentales. le coeur du sujet n’est pas seulement l’économie, ce sont aussi les valeurs et le type de modèle numérique que nous voulons. c’est pourquoi nous sommes totalement convaincus de la voie à suivre: il faut se montrer plus résilients, être mieux à même d’orienter notre destin en l’inscrivant dans notre engagement pour le multilatéralisme et l’économie ouverte, et conserver l’ambition d’une europe plus forte pour un monde plus juste et pour un monde plus engagé. concernant le covid-19, il est nécessaire d’améliorer la coopération entre les états membres car, tant au niveau des tests, que des règles relatives aux déplacements internationaux ou à la quarantaine, la coopération et la coordination entre les états membres sont très perfectibles. on a prévu de revenir très régulièrement sur ce sujet et de demander tant à la commission, qu’aux états membres, au travers du conseil d’être extrêmement engagés. la question des vaccins a également été abordée. ce fut l’occasion pour la commission de présenter un état des lieux précis de l’état d’avancement des décisions qui ont été prises. ceci, afin de garantir que, lorsque qu’ils seront disponibles, les vaccins puissent être mis à disposition de manière juste et équitable en europe. afin également que la question de la distribution et des priorités puisse faire l’objet de clarification entre nous et que l’on puisse aussi totalement assumer notre responsabilité sur le plan international, parce que ce vaccin est un bien commun, que ce défi est un défi mondial et qu’il ne s’agit pas simplement de s’en sortir seuls. en tant qu’union européenne, nous devons aussi soutenir nos partenaires pour progresser sur ce sujet-là. pour conclure, je dirais que, dans le cadre du processus politique, démocratique et institutionnel et grâce au prochain budget pluriannuel et à ce fonds de relance exceptionnel, nous devons donner à l’union européenne dans les années à venir les ressources nécessaires pour agir et pour mettre en œuvre ce en quoi nous croyons. nous allons continuer de bonne foi, dans le dialogue et dans le respect mutuel, à travailler et à négocier avec vous, le parlement, afin que nous puissions dégager le plus rapidement possible des décisions et des solutions, aller de l’avant, assumer nos responsabilités et répondre aux attentes des 450 millions de citoyens européens ainsi que de ceux qui, partout dans le monde sont convaincus que ce projet européen est une valeur ajoutée nécessaire.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me address this house today on behalf of the commission’s president, ursula von der leyen. as you are well aware, she is still in self-isolation today after participating in a meeting attended by a person who tested positive for coronavirus, and as the president has said, we have to be careful and do our utmost to reduce the spread of the virus. now, if you will allow me, turning to the topic at hand – the european council – president michel has debriefed you on the very substantial discussion on foreign affairs. i would sum it up very simply: we at the commission are very glad that the european council has finally found unity after a very long debate, because when we are united we have the power to address the many challenges that surround our european union. today, i would like to focus on two issues from the european council where our unity will be needed and will be tested again: our climate and digital goals, and brexit. first, on our climate goals, which will be at the core of the next european council. this parliament and europe’s heads of state and government have agreed on making europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. for that, we need to speed up. if we continued with business-as-usual, we would only cut our emissions by 60% by 2050, and that’s too little to contain global warming and its devastating impact. that is why the commission proposes to increase our climate ambition for 2030. we propose a reduction of at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. it is an ambitious goal, but it is within our reach. there is an economic rationale for 55%. our cost—benefit analyses tell us that the benefits are bigger than the costs. science tells us that we have no choice. the paris agreement requires it. and the public consultation we have conducted shows that a very large majority of europeans expect this from us, including in the business sector. they all observe the increase in extreme weather conditions. businesses want to invest in green innovation, but they also want certainty and predictability. do we have a plan to realise the increased ambition? yes, we do. we have policies and rules in place that have delivered co2 reductions in the past while growing our economy. the emissions trading system coupled with other rules and mechanisms is proving its effectiveness. we can and will propose by june 2021 an upgrade for our policy toolbox to become ‘fit for 55’ in the most cost—efficient and innovation—enhancing manner. this will be underpinned again by impact assessments for member states and economic sectors. the second question is: do we have the resources to finance the higher climate ambitions? yes, we do. the next eu budget and next generation eu will make available more than eur 600 billion for climate and green investment. this investment from the eu level should leverage a multiple of this in further private and public investment that will support the transition, and this includes investment for a fair transition. then we have to ask: do we have allies in this task? yes, we do. president michel just made reference to the fact that, at the un general assembly two weeks ago, president xi announced that china aims to achieve carbon neutrality before 2060, and that it will peak its co2 emissions before 2030. the same with the president of south africa, cyril ramaphosa, who declared that his country will aim at carbon neutrality by 2050. these are messages we want to hear and we need more of them. europe will not solve climate change alone. we represent less than 10% of global co2 emissions, but we are not alone and this is good news for the world. but it also means that we must preserve our ‘first—mover’ advantage. we must step up our climate ambition if we want the best green technologies to be european technologies. so the question that remains is: do we have the resolve? if you look around us, we are heading from the wildfire season straight into the flood season, and i want to appreciate president sassoli’s remarks and expression of solidarity with the floods which took place just this weekend in italy and france. is this the world we want to live in? a world of never—ending natural disasters? a constant increase in desertification? now it is the question for you, for the european parliament, to unite around an ambitious climate objective of at least 55% by 2030. and we will push for europe’s heads of state and government to unite behind the same ambition before the end of the year. the commission wants it to be our common goal to deliver the european union’s nationally determined contribution by the end of 2020, a date that marks the fifth anniversary of the paris agreement. the green transition goes hand in hand with the digital one. like for the green transition we need clear objectives for the next decade. just like with our 2030 climate goals, europe needs to up its game. this is how the 2020s can become europe’s digital decade. last week’s european council recognised that need, calling for a digital compass to navigate this transformational period and has concluded to invest 20% of the recovery and resilience facility in digital projects. that investment will support and profit from our actions in three fields: first, we must establish a true digital single market through firm enforcement of the rules we already have, and we must deepen it in fields such as digital services. second, fair competition. we need new tools to address the power of global tech platforms over small european companies and to respond to global subsidy races. that’s why we will propose a digital service act in december of this year, and a foreign subsidies instrument in early 2021. third, we must build up the digital capacity of our industries, and for this we need european flagships and alliances, for instance on secure 5g networks, low energy data processing and quantum computing. in parallel to this, we must also better serve citizens and businesses through digital public services and common european digital identity. all this requires major investment which next generation eu can drive. next generation eu is our opportunity to deliver. let’s use it! finally, we will need all our energy in this final stage of negotiations with the united kingdom. we are less than 100 days away from the end of the transition period. there are two tracks to which we should devote our full attention and energy. the ongoing negotiations on our future partnership, which are tough, and the full and timely implementation of the withdrawal agreement, which i have the honour to oversee. this agreement guarantees our citizens’ rights, our financial interests, the integrity of the single market – and crucially – the good friday agreement. the fact that our british friends now, all of a sudden, propose the draft bill that, by its very nature, is a breach of this withdrawal agreement is a heavy blow to the british signature and reliability. respecting agreements is first a matter of law, but also of trust and of good faith, and this is why last week the commission started an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to the uk government. we invited them to submit their observations by the beginning of november. the full and timely implementation of the withdrawal agreement is simply not debatable. concerning the negotiations on our future partnership, prime minister johnson and president von der leyen took stock of the negotiations last saturday. they both agreed that some progress had been made but that a lot remains to be done. we all know where the difficulties are. we all know our mandate, our red lines, our objectives. our negotiators were instructed to work as hard as they can to try to finalise an agreement. michel barnier and his team have, as always, our full trust. but time is short. in case we reach an agreement, which is our objective, both parties will have to ensure ratification in time for an entry into force by 1 january 2021, and this will need some time, including time for this house. if this is not the case, we will be in the ‘no-deal’ territory. given that we are less than 100 days away from this date, we cannot exclude this scenario. this is why we will continue to work with you and the member states to ensure that we are ready for every scenario. this is a delicate moment for europe. the brexit deadline looms. the pandemic is still with us. it is a moment of uncertainty, so it must be the moment of unity. the moment of courage. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me start with a brief remark on the commission. tomorrow, after a successful hearing in the committees, we will vote on one new commissioner and one commissioner who is changing portfolio. i remind us of this because it’s an historic moment: it’s the first time we have the chance to achieve a really gender-balanced commission, and i think that is a good thing. i promised citizens this during the campaign, as did a lot of other politicians; we are making it now and that is good for europe. now for the daily assessment of last week’s council. again, the glass is half-full and half-empty; that’s the principle of the council. half-full, because we have concrete sanctions against those who are responsible for violence and torture in belarus. that’s good, but, on the other hand, lukashenko is not on the list. please explain to us why the brain of the whole system is not on the list. second, we have greece, cyprus and turkey. greek and cypriot interests are european interests. there’s no doubt about this. we use strong words and have a clear strategy, but still, the glass is half-empty. i think we cannot explain to citizens all over europe that we are still negotiating with turkey about enlargement, about turkey’s full membership of the european union. so, once again, small steps, right direction, but no clear signal. good compromise but no leadership. once again, that’s the outcome of the council. meine sehr verehrten damen und herren, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen! die größte sorge, die mich im moment umtreibt, ist, was in unserer wirtschaft los ist. es geht nämlich um die substanz: 15 millionen arbeitslose auf diesem kontinent. in spanien 40 % der jungen generation, die keine arbeitsplätze hat. frankreich – renault, 15 000 arbeitsplätze, air france, 7 500. in deutschland werden in summe alle dax- konzerne 80 000arbeitsplätze in den nächsten zwei jahren abbauen – mercedes 4 000, vw 27 000 –, und in italien sind die zahlen innerhalb von sechs monaten um 290 000 arbeitslose gestiegen. studien zeigen, dass mit der corona-krise jetzt jeder fünfte arbeitsplatz auf diesem kontinent betroffen ist. wir haben derzeit keine antworten auf diese aufgaben. die menschen haben angst um ihren lebensstandard, um ihre zukunft, um ihren sozialen standard, und wir haben derzeit keine antworten. ich möchte auch darauf hinweisen, dass ich nicht glaube, dass dies nur eine delle ist, eine kurzfristige entwicklung, die wir haben. wer sich beispielsweise die zahlen von china anschaut, der muss leider gottes sehen, dass china in diesem jahr nur einige monate hatte, wo wirtschaftlicher rückgang war; schon heute wächst china wieder. fürs nächste jahr sind über 8 % plus bei den wirtschaftszahlen in china vorhergesehen. die wirtschaftliche macht auf dieser welt wird aktuell neu verteilt. man kann das mit einer nachkriegssituation vergleichen, wo die gewichte sich massiv verschieben. china ist derzeit der gewinner, und europa ist derzeit der verlierer. das ist die realität, wenn wir auf die weltkarte blicken. deswegen müssen wir jetzt arbeitsplätze und jobs in den mittelpunkt der politischen debatte stellen. beim recovery fund, vizepräsident šefčovič hat es angesprochen, muss eine priorisierung für die zukunftsagenda geschaffen werden. beim binnenmarkt brauchen wir wieder eine erneuerung unserer wohlstandsgrundlage. wir brauchen ein ende der abschottung und des egoismus. wir brauchen wieder lust auf gemeinsame regelungen auf europäischer ebene. da brauchen wir endlich vorschläge der kommission und nicht nur statements der kommission. als drittes müssen wir die bürokratie anpacken. 60, 70 jahre immer neue regulierung obendrauf führt zur lähmung und nicht zur freiheit unserer betriebe. wir müssen uns dieser frage endlich stellen. als viertes müssen wir uns um den export kümmern. unser wohlstand basiert darauf, dass wir in die nachbarländer exportieren, und da macht mir vieles schon sorge, wenn ich mir beispielsweise die diskussion um mercosur vergegenwärtige. europa muss die kraft haben, auch in zukunft handelsverträge abzuschließen, sonst werden wir unseren wohlstand nicht auf dauer sichern können. innovation: die finanzierung von innovation ist wichtig. eine reformagenda auf nationaler ebene, und vizepräsident šefčovič hat es angesprochen: wir müssen den harten brexit, diesen irrsinn, beenden. wir müssen zu einem vernünftigen kompromiss mit unseren britischen freunden kommen. wir als evp-fraktion wollen, dass in den nächsten wochen jetzt endlich das hauptthema des kontinents diskutiert wird, und das ist die wirtschaftliche frage, ob wir wohlstand werden sichern können. sie ist die grundlage für unser gesellschaftsmodell, und deswegen brauchen wir jobs, jobs und jobs.
the events in the european union's neighbourhood are not stopping, and this has been demonstrated by the series of crises in lebanon, belarus, mali and the eastern mediterranean last summer. the unity reached in the european council to punish those responsible for the violent repression in belarus is good news. so is the message of firmness to turkey to respect international law. there is scope for reducing tensions in the mediterranean and the holding of a multilateral conference is the ideal forum for this. the pandemic has highlighted both our strengths and our weaknesses. in the face of the strategic rivalry between the united states and china, the european union cannot be a mere arbiter. he has to become a global actor with his own voice. we therefore support a strategic autonomy that will enable us to rebuild our industrial and digital independence in the face of future crises. but let us be frank, the strategic autonomy of the european union will only be a reality if we are able to guarantee social cohesion, a single market that meets the objectives of the european green deal and a competitive digital transition that leaves no one behind. the first wave of the pandemic hit everyone equally, but in the second wave, not everyone can defend themselves in the same way. the cuts in health, science and education that resulted from the 2008 crisis have left large swathes of the population without adequate protection. faced with the population layers that can cope with the pandemic with telework and educational and technological support for their children, the most disadvantaged classes live in small apartments, in high-density neighborhoods, with face-to-face jobs, without resources to supplement their children's education and with health centers that are overwhelmed. we cannot afford a two-speed recovery of the european economy this time, and to avoid that we need the european union budget for the next seven years and the recovery plan to be available as soon as possible. we are prepared to reach an agreement through honest and sincere negotiation. but the council must stop its game of accusations. we have been waiting for the ministers to negotiate for two years, so we cannot now give in as a parliament to sacrifice the priorities already agreed in this house. if we want to close the technology gap, we need a recovery plan that invests 20 percent in the digital transition. if we want to guarantee the human capital of the european union, programmes such as erasmus or horizon europe must be respected in the next budget. and if we aspire to defeat the pandemic once and for all, development cooperation and humanitarian aid must be adequately funded, because we will only defeat the virus within and beyond our borders. we have time to avoid a social breakdown if we can ensure that the sacrifice of recovery does not fall on the most vulnerable. let us do so with a clear and ambitious timetable for new own resources. because the adoption of new taxes, such as those on financial transitions or on greenhouse gas emissions, will enable us to safeguard the public accounts of the member states and the purchasing power of the taxpayers. it is not up to the taxpayers to cope with this recovery plan. we are aware of the difficulty of the negotiations, but with the council and parliament on an equal footing we have an obligation to reach an agreement which is up to the greatest challenge of our generations. the citizens are waiting for us.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, mr. president, dear charles, thank you again for being here. the council's debate on international relations was more than necessary. some powers have decided to complicate the situation, as if the health crisis, the economic crisis and the climate crisis were not enough. in this time of global unity, some have decided to play the game. we must therefore ensure that the union becomes a geopolitical, economic and democratic power. a common strategic vision is urgently needed to become a truly geopolitical europe, one that acts rather than reacts, and does so quickly when necessary. but this requires that member states understand the value of truly collective action. this is not always the case in international relations, where everyone is defending his own interests. and now, faced with china, turkey or russia, we need a strategic vision, but also unity and firmness in action. how can we define ourselves as a genuine geopolitical actor if it takes us two months to sanction the lukashenko regime and two months later it still hasn't been put on that list. we simply lose credibility when we call the council together just to discuss. our power must be based on new tools for action and decision-making. the transfer of foreign policy to the qualified majority and the establishment of a sanctions regime linked to human rights are among the urgent issues now. this would allow us to react quickly, for example in situations such as the poisoning of alexei navalny. the council also referred to the economic power of europe. our influence is through our economic radiance, and that economic radiance is through our climate ambition and our digital mastery. parliament recently set up a special committee on artificial intelligence in the digital age, and we intend to make proposals in this area. our internal market, our social and democratic organisation and the strategic autonomy of our economy require real ambition to invest in digital. the power of democracy, finally. we can only be credible internationally if we ourselves are irreproachable. any strategic development must be based on strong values: freedom, democracy and the rule of law. what credibility would we have, beyond our borders, if every european could not rely on an independent judiciary, free from all political pressure and clientelism. if only every european could count on an independent press, and on journalists free from any influence exercised by oligarchs close to power. but public funds, instead of fuelling innovation and sound investment, sometimes end up in the pockets of corrupt people and networks of shady interests. we must therefore be clear: without democratic values, the injection of financial liquidity will not be sufficient. we need both. if we lack a foundation of common values, we will not be able to address concrete problems, such as health coordination to deal with the coronavirus. and this coordination, parliament has been asking for it for months, and we see that there are still member states which do not respond. if it is still not in place, it is good that some want to foster a healthy nationalism, a clash of values on our continent, rather than a clash of solidarity. we must not accept it, because we will all pay the price. the union must therefore be the force capable of protecting the health, employment and rights of all european citizens.
, on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike all the other strategies of the green deal - farm to fork, biodiversity, just transition and so on - the first strategy for forests since the green revolution was activated costs nothing. neither the union nor the member states. or, if you will, it costs goodwill, responsibility and understanding of the times in which we live. that is why, as the s&d shadow rapporteur, i wanted, i fought and, together with the other shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs, we reached a balanced compromise that was viable and in line with the ambitions of the european union. this new forest strategy combines for the first time those elements that can lead europe to a global model of good practice in the relationship between man and nature and in the management of national forests. after seven months of complicated negotiations, the report contains a harsh message for those who have made it a habit to cut down illegal forests, a message that can be summed up in two words: game over. we urgently need to implement an effective and unbeatable system of traceability of wood at european level. we have an urgent need to define, identify and protect with the utmost rigor what is left of europe's virgin forests. a first is to link the concept of agro-civiculture to the future common agricultural policy, with the recommendation that member states make the most of this opportunity for the benefit of the farmer, the environment and us all. we have provisions for a truly sustainable exploitation of forests, so that only the last remaining wood can be used to produce energy. i therefore encourage you to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation of our forests is one of the most important achievements of the union, also and above all thanks to the common agricultural policy. in fact, contrary to global trends, over the last 20 years we have seen an increase in our forest area equal to the size of portugal, with substantial social impacts for a bioeconomy sector that accounts for almost 10% of european employment. this is a sign of a european strategy which, although it can be improved, has produced important results. we cannot stop, commissioner. we need to provide our farmers and foresters with risk and disaster management tools that, together with greater innovation and digitalisation in the sector, protect a system that is as fundamental as it is fragile. in this sense, how can i not remember the images of the tens of thousands of hectares of forest destroyed in my country by the bad weather of 2018. our farmers and foresters must become the real protagonists of the challenge to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. that is why the strategy...
mr president, forests are not just wood. forests are not just a resource for our economy. passing this report as it is would be like looking at our greatest resource in the fight against climate change and only seeing a business. the report speaks often in optimistic terms about forest management in the eu and less about the protection of forests and biodiversity. it speaks too little about this, about the illegal logging in the eu. this is why i ask you to support and ask you to vote for amendment 2. let us call on the commission and the member states to set targets for forest covers, to call for strict protection of old—growth and primary forests. let us all speak about the way forests can help the ambitious goals we set in the climate law. forest protection provides us with hope, gives us a chance to have a buffer against the worst dangers of climate change. let’s not miss the forest for the wood in it. let’s act now.
mr president, the importance of forests cannot be underestimated. we depend on them to survive in the future. the european union currently has no common forestry policy and member states are responsible for forestry measures. the european union forest strategy has so far contributed to promoting sustainable development and strengthened cooperation between member states. it is essential, however, that the future post-2020 forest strategy contains elements that will enhance the harmonisation of national legislation at the european union level. at the same time, the eu's forest strategy must influence the global political context and focus on measures to stop deforestation worldwide. the common agricultural policy is the main source of european funding for forests, but at the same time the sector must also be financed from the structural funds and beyond. it is essential for the sustainable future of this sector that the necessary and accessible levers to encourage forest restoration and conservation are found and local and regional authorities need to step up their cooperation in this regard. farmers are most aware of the importance of forests for the agricultural sector and the rural area. a strong forestry sector contributes to the economic growth of rural areas. forests make a key contribution to food security, helping to maintain the environmental conditions necessary for agricultural production, biodiversity, and preventing and combating drought. the competitive forestry and agriculture sector play an important role in generating jobs while maintaining the vitality of rural areas.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a common framework for policies and mechanisms capable of generating synergies that enable european forests to realise their full potential as healthy, productive and resilient ecosystems and as structural spaces for rural areas essential to their development is an undeniable necessity. protecting forests is protecting europe's biodiversity, which today faces alarming levels of threat. but conservation of biodiversity does not have to be incompatible with social and economic development. it requires a very hard effort, a hard effort of conciliation, but it is feasible, and we must achieve it for the good of society. european forests face multiple threats: fires, droughts, climate change, invasive species, urban pressure - all of which must be properly identified and assessed in a forestry strategy that includes environmentally and socially sustainable management, which promotes the conservation of biodiversity, but also social inclusion in rural areas.
mr president, during the covid crisis, i spent some time in the mountainous area of romania and i noticed a worrying phenomenon there: people are careful not to grow forests on their land. why would you do that? simple, because they lose the european subsidy for grassland and hay. traditionally, they raise animals or make hay there. this is hard physical work, as the population ages, lifestyle changes, many would give up in favor of the forest, which grows naturally. what's happening now? we're basically fighting the forest because these are the rules for receiving the subsidy and it's a great pity because we talk a lot here about the role of the forest, we talk very nicely about the forest, but we make rules by which we force the people in the mountain area to fight these forests. i propose to you, as a member of the committee on agriculture, that we rethink this policy, that we think about eco-schemes dedicated to forests, both for pillar one for subsidies and for pillar two, so that we encourage people to forest, not fight the forest.
in writing. climate change is affecting humanity, and extreme weather events are becoming more frequent. the european green deal reaffirms the ambition of the european institutions to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. agriculture is highly dependent on weather conditions and is one of the most vulnerable sectors. romania, the eu's second largest wheat exporter, has been hit by the worst drought in 100 years, with a direct effect on the european economy, which highlights the importance of climate action at european level as well as global action. the european parliament voted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2030, representing an additional financial effort that is extremely difficult for member states to achieve. we certainly all want a climate-neutral continent, but one that does not cause a significant increase in unemployment across the european union. the climate targets must not put millions of jobs at risk without the certainty that workers in the industries directly affected will have a future in the european labour market. europe must take swift and firm action to protect jobs.
in writing. today we have a very important task. the eu will legislate to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and set a medium-term emission reduction target for 2030. the vote and subsequent implementation of the european climate law is a historic and groundbreaking act. solidarity and fairness are very important in achieving both goals. the starting points for achieving climate neutrality differ between member states, and countries will have support mechanisms and funding available, such as the just transition fund. slovenia can also benefit from this fund, so i call on the government to set more ambitious targets. slovenia has committed to reducing co2 emissions by 30% by 2030, and that is not enough. it's important that we don't fall behind in the transition to carbon neutrality. we need to tax co2 emissions in a socially fair way so that the damage caused to the environment and to people is actually paid for by the polluters, without exception also by large industries and corporations. while i welcome the commission's higher proposal of a 55% cut in emissions, the socialists and democrats in the ep are in favour of an even more ambitious 60% cut. we cannot turn back time, so we must take bold action and fully deliver on the commitments of the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals. there is no planet b!
in writing. the severity of the climate situation is beyond dispute. so, calling attention, or if you will, discussing another administrative move, is no longer enough. we have to act, and we have to act responsibly. in the context of the coronavirus pandemic, the european parliament should focus on the impact of the proposed targets on the economy, smes and jobs, rather than on abstract debates about individual regulations. however, there is still hope for achieving the climate goals. three conditions must be met for this to happen. the first is the implementation of the july european council agreement on the multiannual financial framework and the next generation eu recovery fund. it is unacceptable that parliament, in its petty political game, delays the launch of programmes and financial instruments essential for climate protection. the second criterion is that account should be taken of the specificities of the member states. the european commission and parliament's desire to adopt the climate regulation in the absence of impact studies at member state level is a matter of concern. member states start their climate action from a different position, and respecting this is key. finally, we need fair and equitable climate action. measures which do not lead to a jump in consumer prices and do not jeopardise the security of supply in the member states. no climate control should increase the cost of the recession. in this context, it is also worth taking into account good practices in the member states. one such example is hungary, which has consistently reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and its energy prices for households over the past decade.
in writing. – the climate law is the landmark legislation of the current mandate of the eu institutions. not only because it will stimulate record-high government spending aiming to reach net-zero emissions by 2050, but also our ambition will determine the economic and social landscape in europe in the coming decades. if we are wise and smart, we could make europe a better place for our children and grandchildren. we should be aware of not ruining this chance by disengaging whole regions and member states. i cannot support a text calling for the binding objective of climate neutrality on member state level. our countries differ widely in terms of the starting points. there are also path-dependent factors formed over decades and centuries such as industrial base and capacities, as well as factors completely irrelevant to the political government such as geographic situation and natural resources. furthermore, we should not undermine the weight of our institution if we set prescriptive targets without having scientific proof for their adequacy. the stakes are too high – the future of our economies, of our european way of life. the profound implications that the climate law will have means that it requires rigorous impact assessment at all levels.
in writing. i consider it extremely important to make the transition to climate neutrality, building on the comprehensive impact study carried out by the european commission in recent months, in a responsible, progressive and safe way, while also protecting the eu economy, creating jobs and not destroying them, without imposing additional taxes on citizens. romania, the country i represent, supports the european commission's proposal to increase the 2030 emission reduction target from 40% to 55%. this is an ambitious increase, and closer to the economic reality of the moment, as the 55% target already entails costs of around eur 350 billion over the next 10 years at eu level. of course, we all want a climate-neutral europe as soon as possible, but i would stress that the economic effort to achieve a target of over 55% is extremely worrying even for the most developed states of the union, entailing new, extraordinary costs that are not yet identified or foreseen. and we're in the middle of a pandemic that is causing and will continue to cause significant long-term economic losses, and at the end of the year, the united kingdom, one of the major economic forces in europe, will officially leave the european union.
mr. president, armenia and azerbaijan cannot reach a compromise on their own, but they will surely end up in a devastating war. the minsk group is divided and therefore ineffective. the russian federation supports the principle of self-determination which would justify all interventions in the region: transnistria, eastern ukraine, crimea, nagorno-karabakh. that is why i believe that the right solution for the european union is a firm intervention alongside france and the united states to get russia to accept a security council resolution in the sense of the six principles agreed in madrid.
in writing. – this report focuses on measures to reboot the capital markets union while targeting the need for smes to reduce their reliance on bank loans by getting access to funding on capital markets. proposed actions include facilitating sme listing, a pan—european ipo fund for floating sme shares on stock markets and a european single access point which centralises relevant information to help them attract investors. other proposals call for the encouragement of retail investors through the design of appropriate products and the promotion of financial literacy, starting with schools. moreover, a link with programmes to develop sustainable finance has been hardwired into the proposals. emphasis is maintained on safeguarding the robust regulatory standards, built since 2008, to protect citizens from any financial crash. a fundamental aim is to establish a long—term european culture of direct investment by citizens in productive assets, especially those run by smes. indeed, alternative channels of financing are more than ever needed to support the economic and social fabric constituted by smes. this would also reduce the pressure on banks which presently seem overloaded with targets they must meet, not all of them congruent with each other. i am glad to have helped with the preparation of this report on behalf of the s&d group.
rapporteur. – madam president, i will keep it brief this time. we already had the debate, and it was a very constructive and good debate in this chamber. i would just like to say the formal procedure now. in line with article 59(4), subparagraph 4, of the ep rules of procedure, i would like to request to refer the matter back to the committee responsible for the interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rules 60 and 74. in addition, if the draft legislative act fails to secure a majority, i would ask for it to be referred back to committee for consideration.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission takes note of this resolution objecting to specifications for titanium dioxide adopted by the european parliament. it considers that the draft commission regulation is in line with the implementing powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 1333/2008. the standing committee has given a favourable opinion on the draft act and the council has already decided not to oppose it. the commission regrets that the european parliament has rejected this measure, which is based on the scientific assessment of the european food safety authority. if adopted, the measure would have resulted in an improved level of safety regarding the use of this food additive and better control of the products present on the market, thus allowing a better enforcement by member states of the legislation. such decisions by the european parliament undermine the eu’s well-established science-based approach to food safety. – madam president, honourable members, the commission takes note of this resolution objecting to maximum levels of acrylamide, adopted by the european parliament. it considers that the draft commission regulation is in line with the implementing powers conferred on the commission by regulation (eec) no 315/93 aiming to protect public health. the standing committee has given a favourable opinion by unanimity on the draft act and the council has not opposed it. the commission regrets that the european parliament has rejected this measure, which protects health and is based on the scientific assessment of the european food safety authority. the levels of acrylamide raise concerns with respect to its carcinogenic effects, including for infants and young children. if adopted, the eu would have become the first region in the world to set legally-binding maximum levels of acrylamide and would have resulted in an improved level of food safety for infants and young children. there are every day foods on the market containing acrylamide above the proposed maximum levels, but in the absence of this regulation, there will be no basis to remove them from the market. consequently, children and infants will continue being exposed to levels of acrylamide, which are scientifically considered not safe. the commission wants to emphasise that additional data are being collected and further consultations are being held with a view to extending the measure to other food categories. as such, this objection to this first step might undermine and delay the ongoing work on setting maximum levels for acrylamide in other relevant food categories. the commission calls on the european parliament to follow the european union’s well-established science-based approach to food safety. thank you president, thank you honourable members. president, honourable members. the commission disagrees with the omission of article 2(1) tfeu as legal basis of the decision empowering france to negotiate with the united kingdom. while article 91 tfeu empowers the union to adopt acts of transport policy, the legislator is warranted powers to authorise member states to act in the union’s stead in an area of exclusive union competence only under article 2(1) tfeu. the decision can therefore be adopted only on the basis of both provisions. thank you president, thank you honourable members.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission and my colleague valdis dombrovskis, who is unable to be here today, welcomes today’s debate. dirty money is highly mobile. time and again, we see criminals move it around the world with relative ease. each new money-laundering revelation sparks more public anger. it erodes trust in our banks and financial institutions, in our authorities and our governments. the fincen case we are discussing today confirms the commission’s own reports and risk assessments from july 2019 that money laundering is a global challenge that demands a global response. if we are to succeed in fighting global cross-border crime, then we must all pull together and work with global partners, such as the united states, on closing loopholes. eu countries must also join forces to make the system less open to abuse. member states acting alone are simply not up to the task of addressing a global challenge of such magnitude. the fincen files illustrate the vast scale of the problem. the european union has to act decisively and collectively, with the european approach to supervision, a european approach to financial intelligence coordination. dirty money should have nowhere to hide. before the summer break on 8 july, the commission outlined in this house the action plan for a comprehensive union policy on preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, which the commission adopted on 7 may 2020. it is now critical that we deliver on our action plan. the fincen files are yet another illustration of why it is essential that financial institutions and other private sector entities detect suspicious financial flows and report their suspicions to the relevant authorities. they also highlight how important it is that national financial intelligence units have adequate tools and the capacity to process and analyse this information. these are all issues addressed in our action plan with a number of concrete actions proposed. the commission is also looking much more closely at how member states implement the anti-money laundering directives so that our rules are effective on the ground. enforcement is not only about ensuring the complete or correct transposition of the 4th and 5th anti-money laundering directives: enforcement is also about ensuring that anti-money laundering directives are effectively implemented. the commission recently sent questionnaires to some member states. we will actively follow up on our findings. we will investigate ongoing problems and we will not hesitate to take legal steps if needed. there must be no divergences nor systematic weaknesses that could attract criminals. the european union supervisory system is only as strong as its weakest link. we know that national supervisors cannot do this alone, which is why our action plan proposed eu-level supervision. for european union supervision to work efficiently and seamlessly, we need an integrated system where national supervisors and the european union supervisor work effectively together, including by carrying out joint examinations here, and european union anti-money laundering authorities would need to be equipped with significant and direct supervisory powers regarding the most risky obliged entities. while the financial sector should be our initial priority, the european union would need to progressively and significantly increase supervision of the non-financial sector. the anti-money laundering authority should also check that all national supervisors have adequate resources and powers to carry out their task. this could include on-site checks and would be the best way to monitor and make sure that the rules are applied effectively and consistently across the european union. the fincen case made it also clear that the increased number of reports submitted to the financial intelligence units puts pressure on their resources. we intend to put a coordination and support mechanism in place to support financial intelligence units in the european union as a first step. this is vital for improving the detection of suspicious cash flows, especially those with a cross-border dimension, and for developing better analytical tools. concretely we plan to support financial intelligence units in carrying out joint analyses, developing standards for reporting suspicious transactions, and providing it assistance and support for exchanging financial information. the momentum to act decisively is with us. everyone – authorities, stakeholders and citizens alike – expects the union to act and ensure the stability and integrity of the union’s financial system. we are grateful to this parliament for setting the tone with its resolution last july. the time to act is now. we must close the door on dirty money decisively. the commission is fully committed to presenting ambitious proposals in the first quarter of 2021 and counts on your full support.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fincen files reveal something that we discussed just a few months ago in this round with mr dombrovskis. and what has changed since then? i don't know. i very much regret - and i say this at the very beginning of this debate - that the council is not represented again. because where are the core problems? in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very grateful to the commission, which is now also taking infringement proceedings against member states. the deadline for the implementation of the 5th anti-money laundering directive was 1 january 2020, so in the good old days before corona. so you could have done all of this. so far, only 17 member states have reported full implementation. i hope the commission will also check whether the report is true. the rest have only partially implemented, nine of them, and one of them has not even considered it necessary to report what he has done, namely cyprus. these are the problems we are facing here in europe. problem number two - and this is not new, but we have discussed this many times before: financial regulators are not in a position to deal adequately with criminals. the suspension of the money laundering unit at the european banking authority was an emergency solution, is an emergency solution and must be replaced by a permanent solution with an authority that also has legal powers. money laundering must not only be a european-level offence, it must be a criminal offence. we must create the legal conditions for this. the european way must be that money laundering in europe has no chance. we can only restrict the rest of the world, but they should follow the european example.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, 2 100 suspicious activity reports and more than usd 2 trillion in transactions: these are stunning numbers. the leaks revealed suspicious transactions at deutsche bank. russian criminals and money launderers working for terrorist groups allegedly laundered money through the moscow branch. the name of vladimir putin’s cousin, igor putin, is also linked to such a transaction. another leak revealed a transaction of usd 31 million between two offshore companies. the first one, with an account at piraeus bank, is owned by a person involved in arms trafficking for the islamic state, and the other, with an account in the state-controlled bulgarian development bank, is owned by a notorious bulgarian arms dealer. all of this is happening under the eyes of the financial intelligence units, of the european banking authorities, of the european central bank (ecb), of the law—enforcement national authorities. can i ask how is it possible that we see such impressive amounts of money transferred to safe places through the banking system? basically, there is zero time to waste, and if we want to efficiently fight money laundering, we need full judicial cooperation in criminal matters; we need an anti-money laundering (aml) regulation, which we have been talking about for a long time; we need full transparency on beneficial ownership, which we have been talking about for a long time; cooperation with national authorities as well, but a truly functioning supervisory body. this is if we really want to fight money laundering. if not, it will never happen.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner šuica, in the sad story of covid-19, the situation of care institutions is one of the most disastrous chapters. a large part of the member states of the union - we have to admit - have been wrong, and i hope that we can have, at some point, an investigation that shows us what really happened and why these centres have become and continue to be outbreaks of infection. we're talking about the most vulnerable of european citizens, people who need constant care, people with disabilities, or elderly people who have been effectively abandoned in the face of the pandemic. in the absence of any contingency plan, the care staff have made an extraordinary effort, and i want to take this opportunity to thank all of you who remained on duty in the face of danger. unfortunately, however, the mortality rate was extremely high. the commission needs to work with member states to find solutions in two directions: well-paid and trained care staff and modern centres where vulnerable people can receive the care they need in safety. renew europe, our political group, is campaigning for a rethink of care and community-based care to ensure that we no longer have abandonment of vulnerable people in institutionalised systems. in the coming period, we need to invest substantially in creating access and opportunity so that any european citizen who needs care can receive it in a sustainable way through direct access or within the community of which they are a part, without being socially excluded. last but not least, a modern european-wide care industry can have benefits both for those who would enjoy its services, but also through the job creation and beneficial social impact it would have. a clear strategy on care at european level is imperative, commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the whole of the european union there are now some 3.7 million cases of covid-19 and almost 200 000 deaths. the numbers keep growing, and in this war bulletin, the statistics tell us that facilities that house the elderly and the disabled have become clusters of the virus and that health workers have risked, and in some cases sacrificed, their own lives to save the lives of others. it is necessary to analyse these data in order to understand, including by setting up a committee of inquiry, what critical factors may have increased the risk of infection in these facilities, which cannot be considered human suburbs. it is our duty to urge a review of the procedures for the reception and management of care homes for the elderly with disabilities: we must devise new european protocols to better protect the vulnerable and to enable health workers to better face the new challenge that is now almost upon us. covid is still with us, and it's imperative that we don't get caught off guard.
president. - i would like to compliment commissioner šuica on the dignity with which she has described this problem in her contribution. covid-19 has hit us and we've seen that covid-19 has caused a lot of casualties because of the system that was actually created by neoliberalism, where everyone approaches society individually and where we put the elderly and the weak in boxes, as long as they're removed from society. i welcome the commissioner's commitment to a green paper to improve the health care system at european level. i hope that a single market for health care will mean that the eu will have competence in health care in an integral sense, and i hope that there will also be a minimum price for medicines and medical products throughout europe. secondly, we must also make people healthier, because 50% of the population is over 50. the other half wants to be, and so we have to make sure that we create a healthier society. building life-sustaining structures is important in this respect. the segregation of the elderly has led to the problems we know, and i was very angry about a journalist who wrote in the netherlands: the dry wood is cut, perhaps a few months earlier than without the virus. that is a great shame and i think that journalists, as opinion makers, should respect the dignity of all people.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, once again, i thank the honourable members for this important debate on the impact of covid—19 on long-term care facilities. those affected include the elderly, and i take this opportunity to welcome the work of the german presidency on the rights of the elderly in digitalisation, which was mentioned by one or two members. member states are aware that active ageing also means being able to fully participate in society. today we inhabit a more digitalised world. digitalisation and technology help older people in their autonomy and ability to connect with others. it also raises issues on the right to privacy. this calls for action in increasing digital literacy for older people. digital tools must be accessible and easy to use for all ages. those who are unable to use them must be provided with alternative ways of accessing essential services. the fundamental rights and values of the european union are indivisible, universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. these rights are valid throughout the whole life cycle, from birth to death. in my role as vice—president for democracy and demography, the whole of the live cycle is the focus of my work, and i have to think about the most vulnerable in our policy-making, particularly when we consider long-term care facilities. i see that you share these views and would like to address some points raised here today. there were questions on article 19 from ms metz on implementation and on funding. i would like to answer that the commission is committed to the entire european pillar of social rights. in order to deliver, we will present, next year, an action plan on the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. regarding funding, someone said that there is no reference in the treaty on european union responsibilities, but there is the coronavirus response investment initiative and, of course, the european union recovery and resilience facility. then, as i mentioned in my introductory statement, there is react-eu, but also don’t forget that we are negotiating the multiannual financial framework. also, of course, there is the european social fund, and i am aligned with those who said that the european semester can also be one of the tools. mr brglez mentioned the quality standards for long-term care. i mentioned the green paper consultation at the beginning, so let’s discuss which measures are required and at which level – at european level and at member state level. we will need to take a close look at long-term care, and i’m totally in alignment with you. regarding a stronger role for the european union in health care and long—term care, you will remember the state of the union address by our president, ursula von der leyen, which was held here two weeks ago. she mentioned health. so let’s use the conference on the future of europe to discuss the role of health and the role of the european union: what can we do and what can we improve? because almost all of you were talking about this. so i think this conference on the future of europe, which will be launched soon, may be one of the instruments through which we can debate this important issue. the covid—19 pandemic exposed gaps in long-term care, showing a lack of coordination of services between healthcare and long—term care providers, and of course this resulted in difficulties for home residents to access health services, including patients with covid—19 and patients with chronic conditions. the pandemic and containment measures also intensified loneliness. many of you mentioned loneliness, solitude and isolation. we are completely aware that loneliness is a phenomenon, and we will definitely tackle this issue. there is psychological distress here too, not only among older people, but among all users of these facilities. the service providers themselves – the carers – have had to work under extremely difficult conditions, improvising on many levels in their efforts to go above and beyond the call of duty. effective care management through the involvement and collaboration of clinicians, patients, users and caregivers is necessary. it can form the cornerstone in the transformation of health and long—term care systems in providing services that are adapted to the needs, values and preferences of the users, while supporting the providers. once again, i cannot forget the images of isolation, loneliness and grief that emerged from our long-term care homes across the european union. in some places it is still happening. we must strive to ensure that no one has to experience the loss of a loved one in such a traumatic way ever again. by pulling together, we can demonstrate the value of our solidarity by providing the long-term care sector with the support they need, which in turn helps build a better society for all of us. this requires efforts on all sides, as many of you said – at european level, at member state level, among regional and local authorities, and, yes, at a societal and individual level. thank you once again for this debate. i am looking forward to cooperation in the future.
in writing. in health crisis situations, some people are more vulnerable than others. i mean, the elderly and the disabled. when it comes to care services, we cannot help the categories that benefit from them if we do not also come to the aid of those who provide them. that's why it's essential that we find a better balance between prosperity, public health and security. we need well-trained and financially stimulated care staff, but also institutions that support vulnerable people and where they feel safe and have decent care conditions. it is absolutely imperative that we provide equal access, so that all european citizens can benefit from healthcare in a sustainable way. in this context, i would like to thank with all my heart the care staff who have made and continue to make considerable efforts and who have done their duty in an exemplary manner in the face of a critical situation generated by the covid-19 pandemic. now, more than ever, patient safety and quality must be our number one priority. that's why we have to fight for better protection and funding of these care institutions.
in writing. – when it comes to digitalisation of the economy, the truth is that we missed already several opportunities. we missed the opportunity created by the previous crisis to change the structure of capital investment in europe and to increase the share of ict; we also missed the opportunity of the start of this technological revolution when the main giants were created, when the new services were established. today we have two opportunities at the same time. first, it is the economic crisis created by covid19 that is pushing us to change the model. second, it is the artificial intelligence (ai) and data breakthroughs that are happening. it gives us a chance to be back in the global digital competition, having in mind that europe produces huge amounts of industrial data. we should use ai as a catalyst for the process of digitalisation and innovation in all industries. ai can be a solution to enhance europe’s productivity which has been lagging compared to global competitors - and that is just one example. understanding and addressing the current challenges faced by businesses will be key to ensuring europe realizes the economic potential of ai to the fullest extent.
in writing. the digital services package is a key element in the digital transformation of the european union. since the adoption of the e-commerce directive in 2000, the online environment has evolved significantly and therefore new ways of regulating, defining online platforms, stimulating innovation and supporting the european digital sector are needed. at the same time, citizens have been exposed to new additional risks while online companies have faced challenges in terms of litigation, fairness and market entry, especially in relation to large companies in the field. this is why we need an open approach to regulating and developing the sector, starting from the following directions: combating illegal, counterfeit or unsafe products and content; implementing a mechanism for reporting and warning of offences; creating profiles of online sellers; the possibility to access platforms anonymously and to be forgotten by it systems; applying all measures to platforms outside the eu. what is clear is that everything that is illegal offline becomes illegal online, but everything that is good online needs to be actively and appropriately supported if the european union is to become a leader in online platforms.
in writing. digitalisation and artificial intelligence are creating incredible opportunities for our society and for us as individuals, and are making our lives much easier in many ways. the new technologies that are emerging are not good or bad in themselves, but depend on us humans to create them. digital and new technologies are an important part of our daily lives in many ways. the legislation on these should be integrated into existing legislation rather than creating a completely separate digital legislation. what's illegal off the grid is illegal online. digi is not a separate island, and hate speech, intimidation and harassment must be addressed and prevented. online crime is also a crime and should not be tolerated.
in writing. – any future legislation on the digital services should focus on the issue of combating illegal content. achieving this goal also includes emphasizing the principles that what is illegal offline should be illegal online as well and manifestly illegal content should be removed immediately from the online space. online platforms have an increasingly important role to play in our fight against illegal content online. on the other hand, the vast majority of online platforms impose certain self-established rules on users of their services. any breach of these rules generally restrict the publication of content and, in some cases, users’ access to the platform. decisions based on these set of norms have a serious impact on the constitutional right to freedom of expression, as the platforms themselves determine its limits and its oversight procedures without constitutional guarantees. we need to work on a legal framework building on the responsibility of platforms that is effective against illegal content but does not interfere with freedom of expression or national sovereignty.
in writing. the package of six european parliament reports on digital services and artificial intelligence reflects the concern caused by the discrepancy between the impact of new technologies on our lives and the deficient and outdated legislation in this area. for example, the e-commerce directive dates back to 2000, when the sector was in its infancy. i am particularly concerned about the volume of illegal content online, the eu's vulnerability to cyber attacks and disinformation, and the difficulty of regulating the work of large internet platforms to protect users' rights. the eu legal framework needs to be adapted to the rapidly developing digital economy. i therefore call on the european commission to draw up the promised digital services legislative act, in order to have a coherent and stimulating framework for the digital single market. we need to adapt civil and commercial law rules for online activity, as well as a framework for civil liability for the exploitation of artificial intelligence systems and a regime of intellectual property rights in the development and use of emerging technologies. last but not least, the impact of ai on european defence and security requires us to build strategic resilience through a sectoral strategy, which i believe needs to be defined in close cooperation by the eu and nato.
the joint debate on the legislative acts on digital services and artificial intelligence comes at a time when it is crucial to strengthen the legal and security rules that should govern digital platforms, services and products in order to complete the digital single market. with the acceleration of technology and the growth of digital transactions, fundamental rights have to be safeguarded. the legislative package under consideration is an important step in this direction. the rapid development of artificial intelligence poses new challenges, opportunities and threats to the development of the digital single market. based on the european commission's white paper on artificial intelligence, presented in february this year, the legislative initiative report on the ethical dimension of artificial intelligence, robotics and related technologies takes a path of strategic autonomy for the european union, based on its values and principles, defining binding rules based on a humanistic ethics and putting people, their protection, their rights and their interests at the centre of the process of developing artificial intelligence. this is, in my view, a promising path which can lead to the union's global leadership in developing safe solutions for citizens.
(deputising for the author). – mr president, i’m glad to be live from romania speaking about education. our education and training systems are now facing severe challenges due to the covid—19 pandemic. 94% of the global learner population, meaning many nearly 1.6 billion learners, were affected by the closure of education and training institutions at the top of the crisis. unfortunately, today the numbers remain high in the context of a potential second wave. not everyone had access to digital education, with severe gaps at eu level. up to 32% of pupils did not have access to education for several months in some member states, among them romania, where close to one million children did not have access to online education. despite that, many countries are still unprepared in front of the second wave that is now hitting europe. more things should be done to ensure access to quality education and training for all europeans, and for that we need to invest more in education. we need to invest in infrastructure, in digital skills and lifelong learning, in improving the connectivity of remote areas, in new initiatives like the european online university, in the new tools, curriculums and devices that have been developed across europe. this crisis has shown us positive examples set up by professors, parents, learners, civil society and education providers, and we praise everyone’s efforts. therefore, we recommend scaling up and increasing the visibility of effective initiatives and providing a platform for member states to share good practices. we deeply regret that the council is proposing budgetary cuts specifically in those programmes that support education and training policies. we reiterate our call for the erasmus+ budget to be tripled while actively encouraging member states to significantly increase public spending on education and on the commission to prioritise education and training in the recovery plan – some of us are even calling for a 10% allocation. education is a right, and access to digital education should not be a privilege anymore. therefore, we are asking the council and the commission to present a transparent and complete assessment of the impact of the crisis. it is key to see the lessons that have been learned. the upgraded digital education action plan and the plan to achieve the european education area by 2025 are just initial steps. the current situation demands a much quicker and stronger reaction, both at national and european level. we call upon member states, with the support of the commission, to present the education policy priorities that have been identified to make our education and training systems more inclusive and more evident in the current context. you must come up with a long—term vision for eu education policy. we need to see the eu playing a more prominent role in shaping education policy, and the first step could be to see better cooperation and coordination among member states on how to deal with the current crisis. our resolution, and this is the goal of this debate, calls to work closely together to minimise the health risks for staff and learners and to maximise the chances that in—person education and training is safe and can continue. the future of education depends on us making sure that all individuals, without discrimination, have access to education.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we all experience it in these days and weeks with particular pain: the coronavirus pandemic is having a dramatic impact on all political and social sectors, and education in particular is not exempt from this. we have had a very painful experience in the past few months since the pandemic began. the first step was to ensure that our educational institutions - from kindergartens all the way to universities - had strict safety and hygiene measures. in a second, much more painful step, many, many educational institutions in almost all eu member states had to close. then, when things got much better, the question was, how can we reopen the schools, the kindergartens? and what does it mean to link learning from presence elements in the institutions and a distance learning? this has been a serious test for the member states and for all those in the european union who are responsible for education and higher education and science. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a task, however, and it is this task which is most important in these difficult times: to learn from each other, to learn together. and this is the most painful experience we've had in the last few months, because corona has dramatically increased the disparities in education. those who have had insufficient access to education are now being punished once again. i would like to draw attention to a few specific examples which are currently shaping the debate among the ministers of education in the european union, but also among us all. firstly, inclusion and equal access to distance learning remain difficult to achieve. it's not just about the lack of digital skills that we find in some social environments, but also in some schools. the lack of access to the internet and technical facilities is also a major concern. this is a big, big obstacle because we are not as far along in the european union in terms of digitisation as we should be. the second important point which is particularly important to me and to the council is that schools, universities and colleges - i am now referring specifically to early childhood education - are not just places of learning. they are also places of social interaction, safe environments that give children and older learners a sense of belonging and community. the pandemic itself is a cause of stress, of fear, of great concern. in addition, many learners fear that they will become increasingly socially isolated, unable to meet their friends and classmates. the educational institutions, especially the schools and their staff, as well as the families, had to show great flexibility. the teachers had to adapt very quickly to the new bitter realities, especially to the reality of distance learning. this also meant additional targeted training for many schools. but families and learners also needed to be accompanied by appropriate psychological and emotional support. we are still seeing large deficits here too. many families, many pupils, but also many teachers feel left alone in this crisis. at the level of educational institutions and systems as a whole, one of the main tests of competence is in the assessment of performance and in the grading of grades. how can one make a comparable assessment of school performance in a school year which has had little face-to-face teaching? this is a question that has been a massive challenge not only to students but also to teachers. the pandemic has also affected learning mobility programmes. i am particularly sorry about that, because this is a core competence of the european union. when i think of the erasmus+ programmes, many young people who were looking forward to a semester abroad were not able to do so and did not have the opportunity to study, live and love in another european country. i hope that in retrospect we will be able to give these young people something of what i believe they are naturally entitled to. the impact of the crisis is therefore significant, and the european union ministers of education will draw conclusions on 30 november, in particular on digital education in europe's knowledge societies. and our message, which should also come out of today's debate, is this: the corona generation must not become a lost generation.
member of the commission. – mr president, this year has been an unprecedented year of challenge and disruption for education and training with 100 million learners across the european union affected by the physical closure of educational institutions. major and impressive efforts have been made by educational institutions, their staff and learners. still, many learners were lacking suitable devices, appropriate tools, reliable internet connections and interaction. educators and teachers were struggling to ensure a structured process and to keep students engaged. teachers were not adequately prepared to use digital technologies. teaching practices varied significantly, leading to uneven quality. initial findings estimate that the closure of schools has negatively affected learning outcomes. the lack of social interaction between pupils has also had a negative impact on the well—being of children and pupils. school—leaving exams and enrolment in higher education institutions have also been a major challenge and member states’ approaches varied significantly. most importantly – and most alarmingly – the pandemic has affected vulnerable learners most, including those from disadvantaged backgrounds and unsupportive home environments. as for the lesson learned from this crisis, member states managed to switch to online learning quickly, but it’s clear that there is room for improvement. first and foremost, the shift to distance learning raised significant challenges in terms of equity and quality. we need to overcome the suboptimal practices leading to inequalities and learning losses. second, the digital skills of learners and the capacity of educational institutions to provide quality and inclusive education remotely need to improve. third, we also learned that the effectiveness of the response at national level was linked to the level of preparedness in terms of infrastructure, tools, content and teachers. the adaptation to the crisis was easier for those member states that had national digital education strategies in place and had made efficient use of relevant eu funds. regarding your next questions on education policy priorities in response to the crisis, the recent commission communication on the european education area takes the lesson learned from the pandemic fully on board. inclusion and equality are indeed at the heart of the european education area. it recognises and reinforces the role of education and training in the recovery and represents an ambitious answer to member states’ call for cooperation at eu level to build resilient and forward-looking education systems. dedicated initiatives in various areas, such as inclusion, building capacities for the digital transition or supporting teachers are vital to achieve this goal. while the pathways to the school success initiative will address the risk of dropout and low achievement, the proposed erasmus teacher academies will promote cooperation between existing teacher education and training institutions. the new digital education action plan also addresses the lessons learned from the ongoing covid—19 crisis and the more structural challenges linked to the digital transformation of education and training. it looks at what is needed to enable and foster the development of a high—performing digital education ecosystem and it also aims at enhancing digital skills for the digital transformation. last but not least, the future, more inclusive erasmus programme aims to provide a wide range of opportunities for institutions, learners and educators to be better equipped for digital learning and for overcoming social dividers. the european education area and the digital education action plan, together with the emblematic erasmus programme, contains the geist of the commission’s vision for eu education policy. indeed, education is the foundation for personal fulfilment, employability and active and responsible citizenship. the union is resetting its growth strategy with the green and digital transitions as its transformative drivers. education is at the heart of these transitions, strengthening the social market economy and democracy with freedom, diversity, human rights and social justice.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has highlighted a number of existing shortcomings in our european community, such as the imbalances between our health systems and the serious backlog in the availability of digital education. we now know that in some member states, up to a third of pupils have been out of school for months because they were not provided with the opportunity and conditions for digital education. there are families in hungary that don't have the internet or the computer, but they don't have electricity. this situation is untenable and intolerable. the fight against the epidemic should include strengthening the toolbox for digital education and ensuring its accessibility in member states in need. the digital divide does exist and the european union must build a strong bridge over it without delay, which is why i urge the adoption of this resolution and call on the commission and the council to provide a dedicated resource in the next eu budget to radically increase digital inclusion in regions in need. without it there is no strong education, and without strong education there is no strong european society! at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the importance of the discovereu programme, which i mentored in the past, and its positive impact on our common european values, and therefore we must guarantee its future and its continuation! the planned cut in the erasmus+ programme is therefore a scandalous, even criminal act!
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on the future of education, which was debated in plenary, is an important step towards a common european education area, which must also take greater account of digital education. today, the coronavirus crisis has led to a kind of ad hoc digitisation. in these times of crisis, it is clear which countries have already invested in digital education systems. the crisis reminds us where in europe we urgently need to retrofit. i am in favour of the initiative to set up a european education platform with digital education facilities, for the sharing of educational materials and for the exchange of best practices. equal opportunities in education are also important. it is unacceptable that a child cannot participate in digital education to the same extent as others, just because his parents may not be able to afford the necessary tools. high-quality education systems are the foundation of the eu's global competitiveness. however, well-functioning education and training systems require appropriate public investment. ambitious policies without adequate funding are not credible. we therefore deeply regret the budget cuts made in the next mff to programmes supporting education and training policies erasmus+, horizon europe and the european social fund .
in writing. the coronavirus crisis has triggered a global learning crisis. for more than 90 percent of the world's schoolchildren and students, schools have been closed this year, sometimes for months. teachers, students and families have all reached incredible levels of success in distance learning. at the same time, the coronavirus has highlighted the huge disparities between regions and schools. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. even in the eu, one in ten economies is completely without internet access. it is estimated that in some countries, up to a third of students were left completely out of school during the coronavirus lockdown. clearly, this learning gap will have to be plugged for a long time. access to digital data, digital infrastructure and devices must now be at the heart of education policy to ensure equal learning across europe. we are already in the second wave of the coronavirus, and investment in education is needed more than ever. it is disappointing that the member states have not come to a sufficient understanding of this and the council would be prepared to make cuts in the erasmus programme. it is therefore very important that we in the european parliament stick to our objective of tripling the funding for the future programme to eur 41 billion. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the action plans for the european education area and digital education are translated into concrete strategies with objectives. only by investing in education and skills can europe succeed in the future.
author. mr president, commissioner johansson, i am sure you will appreciate the timeliness of this oral question, which i have the honour to put to you as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. but what i want to stress is their need. the treaty of lisbon entered into force more than ten years ago and, with the treaty of lisbon, the area of freedom, justice and security, which makes the management of the union's borders and the free movement of persons within the schengen area, finally a common policy subject to the legislation of this european parliament, one of the pillars of which is a common visa policy and a european visa legislation. this parliament has done its job. it adapted the first visa regulation of 2001 in 2013 on the principle of reciprocity enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. and the principle of reciprocity means that the european union grants visa-free travel to third countries and their nationals on the condition of reciprocity, that those third countries exempt the nationals of the member states of the european union from the corresponding visa requirement for entry into the territory of those countries. and, in addition, in 2018 we established not only a reciprocity regulation with a list of third states whose nationals are exempt from visas on condition that those third states exempt europeans from visas, but also a european visa code, which i had the honour of being rapporteur for. in 2017, we asked the commission when the commission will comply with the existing european law which states that if a third country which has a visa waiver does not grant it to all eu member states, the eu is obliged to adopt a delegated act to suspend that visa waiver in terms of reciprocity for at least six months. we told them that in 2017 because there were two visa-free states, canada and the united states, which did not guarantee it to five european union states at the time: poland, romania, bulgaria, croatia and cyprus. poland already has visa-free travel and canada has granted it to all the member states of the european union. but the united states still denies it to four european union member states: bulgaria, romania, croatia and cyprus. the commission has also established that the commission has not been able to verify the information provided by the complainant, and that the commission has not been able to verify the information provided by the complainant. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the european parliament brought the matter to the plenary debate in 2017 and it is still pending. that is why we are bringing the matter up a second time and asking you a question clearly. firstly, does the commission share the legal obligation to adopt the delegated act as requested by the european parliament? second, are you going to adopt him? and third, if not, explain why.
member of the commission. – mr president, i know how important visa reciprocity is to you and i especially thank mr lópez aguilar for his great engagement in this subject. i know that parliament expects the commission to do its utmost to ensure visa reciprocity for all eu citizens, including bulgarians, croatians, cypriots and romanians. for me, visa reciprocity – for all member states – is a priority. with the united states, we remain engaged in a result-oriented diplomatic process towards full visa reciprocity, in close coordination with the member states concerned. our communication on visa reciprocity of march 2020 details our engagement with the united states and shows we’ve consistently placed the issue high on the agenda. that communication also reported significant progress. in november last year, poland entered the us visa waiver programme. our approach is working. it has worked with other countries such as canada, where full visa reciprocity for all eu citizens has already been achieved, and it is now showing results with the united states as well. working on the result—oriented process, the four other member states concerned have made continued progress. the united states is providing concrete guidance. the member states have a clear perspective of joining the us visa waiver programme once they meet the outstanding requirements. these are not arbitrary but set out in us law. the commission actively supports and works closely with these member states to help them to fulfil all benchmarks and requirements. all four member states have concrete prospects of progress; some appear to be very close to fulfilling the requirements and to being considered for entry to the us visa waiver programme. all four member states want to continue this approach. this is important. none of them has asked the commission to temporarily suspend visa-free travel for us citizens. they have all agreed to continue dialogue and to work on the benchmarks. temporarily suspending the visa waiver for us citizens would be counter-productive. it would undermine the progress achieved in our current work. suspending visa-free travel for us citizens would inevitably lead the united states to impose visa requirements for all eu citizens. this is the opposite of what we are trying to achieve. it would be difficult to explain to eu citizens how this were in their interest, especially when diplomatic engagement has brought positive results. i should also say that, with the global covid-19 pandemic, maybe this is not the time to escalate. at the moment, covid-19 travel restrictions are in force on both sides of the atlantic. non-essential travel is simply not taking place, visa-free or not. despite covid-19, the commission continues to work with the united states and the member states concerned to accelerate progress on visas. we discussed visas at the most recent eu-us justice and home affairs ministerial meeting in may this year, and at the meeting between the united states, the commission and the member states concerned on 18 and 19 june of this year. our continued engagement in difficult times shows how important this issue is to the commission. finally, i turn to the legal aspect raised in your question. the visa reciprocity mechanism, as set out in the visa regulation, requires the adoption of a delegated act suspending the visa waiver for nationals of the third country concerned for 12 months. according to the legislation, we must also take into account the possible consequences for the external relations of the eu and its member states and for all european citizens. on the one hand, there is the progress achieved so far, notably poland achieving visa-free access last year and the continued progress made by the other member states concerned. on the other hand, the expected negative effects of visa suspension for our external relations and visa reciprocity. my assessment is that as long as we see continuing progress through engagement with the united states, full visa reciprocity for all eu nationals can be best achieved through continued diplomatic cooperation. we will of course continue to keep you informed. i know that we all share the same objective: full visa waiver reciprocity. i’m confident that the remaining member states will join the us visa waiver programme and i call on you to give this approach another chance.
in writing. the issue of visa reciprocity is extremely important for my country bulgaria. unfortunately, bulgarian citizens, as well as citizens of three other member states - cyprus, romania and croatia - continue to be treated differently, and they are the only eu citizens who still cannot enter the us without a visa. in response to the double standards in the field of visas, the only correct decision for the commission is to adopt a delegated act on the temporary suspension of the possibility for us citizens to enter europe without a visa. the resolution that the ep will vote on is a matter of solidarity between eu member states and reaffirms the right of bulgarian citizens and citizens of the other three countries that do not benefit from visa reciprocity to travel visa-free to the us, as do citizens of the other member states. the question of the violation of the principle of reciprocity for the citizens of bulgaria, croatia, cyprus and romania has been raised since 2014, but unfortunately it still cannot find its solution. the commission has not taken any action in response since 2016 and, despite a resolution of the ep in march 2017 calling for the rules of european law to be followed, the visa reciprocity mechanism has not been activated.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me thank your rapporteur, mr sikorski, and all members of parliament who have contributed to this recommendation on the implementation and governance of permanent structured cooperation (pesco). it is very timely as the pesco strategic review will be finalised in the coming weeks. i can say that i will probably support and share your recommendations. we need to strengthen pesco’s operational dimension. we need to maintain the european union’s budgetary ambition in the field of defence, including with regard to the european defence fund and military mobility, and we need to sustain efforts to ensure coherence among defence initiatives. there are many of them and we have to make them work together in a coherent way. pesco is a key tool for member states willing to cooperate more in the field of defence within the union – for those who want to cooperate more in the field of defence. it has three main objectives: first, to enhance the european union’s capacity as an international security actor; second, to maximise the effectiveness of our spending on defence; and third, and above all, to contribute better to the protection of the population of the countries of destination and, hence, european union citizens. i think that we can be proud of what has been done in such a short time frame because, let’s not forget, pesco projects were launched just a couple of years ago in 2018 and 2019. a large-scale pesco project requires between 10 and 25 years to see the light of day. whether carried out within the framework of pesco or not, it takes 10 years. however, 15 pesco projects could be operational as early as 2025, including in the cyber domain (the cyber rapid response teams), the field of medical support (the european medical command) and the area of land battlefield missiles. other projects, such as those in the anti-missile defence field – the european patrol corvette or the twister project – will need more time, but they are already producing concrete and variable results and reinforcing our european union and our member states’ military capacity to act and enhance their strategic autonomy. today, everybody is talking about ‘strategic autonomy’, but there is also a big debate about what these words that everybody is using actually mean. i know that there are strong differences of opinion on the meaning of these two words. however, i think that we can already see good coherence between pesco and the european defence fund. in fact, 50% of the actions that will receive funding from the european defence industrial development programme, the precursor of the european defence fund, are related to pesco projects. we will keep working together with the commission, with my friend commissioner breton, to ensure such coherence and synergies. let me also highlight that 38 of the 47 pesco projects are fully coherent with nato priorities. the need to avoid overlap with nato priorities is considered when selecting new pesco projects. the other nine projects are more of an operational nature, combining existing capabilities, or they specifically contribute to the development of european technological sectors. this is the case, for instance, with the project ‘material and components for technological eu competitiveness’, which will develop highly technological electronic components. at the same time, one of the key goals put forward for the next phase of pesco is to focus more on operational projects. we should prioritise projects where member states stand ready to deploy joint forces on the ground and which deliver concrete and visible results. i think this is the kind of project that we have to prioritise – several member states deploying joint forces on the ground – as this is something visible that makes it easy to understand what it means to have a common european security policy. pesco has great potential, and it is only just starting. of course, we are still on a learning curve and there is room for improvement, as i stressed in my assessment report this year and as you point out in your recommendation. more binding commitments are at the heart of pesco. we have seen progress in many areas, including on the need to regularly increase defence budgets. that said, i think there is scope for member states to better fulfil their commitments. allow me to give a couple of examples. i think that there is scope for them first to provide substantive support to cover security and defence policy missions and operations – as i said, deploying forces on the ground through our missions and operations should be a priority – and, second, to make more systematic use of the european union defence tools in national planning and decision-making. as i stated in my recent letter to eu defence ministers, the pesco strategic review should serve to set up clear milestones for the next phase. i can assure you that many topics raised in your recommendation will be reflected in this review. wrapping up this review offers an opportunity to reaffirm pesco’s main political objective for the next five years, to highlight the projects that will deliver concrete results before 2025 and, last but not least, to identify concrete incentives that will help member states to fulfil their commitments, in particular when it comes to operational projects. we will discuss these issues with defence ministers in november and i sincerely hope that our member states will decide on an ambitious next phase for pesco.
rapporteur. – mr president, the association agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova is not just a list of reforms and is not just a financial envelope. it is about shared values and a common destination. we are partners, the republic of moldova and us, because we made a commitment to each other. at the heart of that commitment lies one value, one which is being debated now even amongst ourselves, the members of the union. that value is rule of law. and as we tell and remind our own member states that rule of law is the fabric of democracy, we also tell and remind moldovans, over and over again, that the commitment to rule of law and democracy is the essential building block for the common destination that we have set ourselves, which is european integration. my report and the main message which i would like that we, as parliament, pass this week to the republic of moldova is precisely about these fundamental choices and these fundamental values, those that make us all european. the republic of moldova has delivered on a number of reforms in the course of last year and the report acknowledges those efforts, albeit the political instability and the often—confusing signals coming from the authorities. very importantly, moldova followed through with the concrete institutional and legislative deliverables that were conditionalities for the second tranche of macro—financial assistance. the citizenship for investment scheme was abandoned, the legislative framework for ngos was duly adopted, some elements of the judicial reform package were implemented. that led to the disbursement of the much—needed financial aid, along with an additional amount of redirected assistance focusing on covid—19 immediate response measures. add to that the eur 100 million in the omnibus instrument and we have a consistent package for which i praise the commission and the european external action service (eeas), which understood the need to stand by the republic of moldova in these times of need. the report also acknowledges those reforms that are not yet complete, where either the political will is still faltering or where the administrative capacity is insufficient. democratic mechanisms need to be strengthened, the civil society needs to be more involved, and above all else, the judiciary needs to function independently, beyond any suspicion of political bias or outright corruption. for that reason, the superior council of magistracy needs this reform completed, the activity of prosecutors must be freed of interference and undue pressure, including from obsolete legal provisions in the criminal code. the banking and financial sectors require transparency, stability and predictability if trust in the investment environment of moldova is to be sustained. it cannot be that several years later, the moldovans still do not know who is responsible for defrauding eur one billion from their bank. the union and us, the european parliament, will keep watching over those reforms because they are important for moldova and for its citizens. now, a final word to them, the moldovan citizens, and i will do that in their own mother tongue. europa a fost și va rămâne „acasă”. este deja pentru mulți dintre moldovenii care circulă liber, momentan afectați, ca noi toți, de restricțiile legate de pandemie, pentru cei care muncesc în toate colțurile europei, sau cei care își însoțesc familia. conducătorii moldovei – oricine ar fi ei – datorează cetățenilor lor o țară din care să le vină mai greu să plece, iar reformele pe care noi – uniunea și instituțiile sale – le cerem autorităților sunt acolo pentru voi, pentru a construi o societate și o democrație funcțională, sănătoasă și prosperă. asta vă dorește uniunea europeană, asta vă doresc și eu.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this has been a year of complex negotiations, of complex, difficult negotiations, but it has been a year of negotiations which were necessary, commissioner, to enable parliament to finally reach a high position, an ambitious position, a strong position to improve the text which had been proposed by the commission which had - as we have said many times - many gaps, a structure which was absolutely unconvincing. we know, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a time of high ambition. the challenges of our time, climate change, the weakening of global competition, do not allow for the possibility of low-flying. the new cap must therefore contain clear objectives linked to the objectives we have set ourselves here in parliament on the environment and the fight against climate change, as was also mentioned here this morning. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of biotechnology in agriculture, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biotechnology in the production of foodstuffs. that is the fundamental point, so i think that the compromises reached so far take this aspect very well into account, which, as far as we are concerned, is right and they are in line with the priorities which have been expressed by the majority of this parliament. on the horizontal regulation in particular, i believe that the compromise reached is a clear signal. parliament thinks it is a mistake to renationalize the cap, as we have said on several occasions. we have tried to mitigate the excessive flexibility which had been granted to the member states in the initial proposal, thus returning to a system of control and payment based on compliance with the rules, but at the same time, precisely because we are convinced that we must expect results, when we are talking about such a large and important public investment, we have also maintained a control of performance, in two phases, one annual and one biennial, of different intensity and moreover under stricter conditions, even stricter for the member states. we believe, mr president, that we have struck the right balance between ensuring that there is no disparity and competition between european farmers, while maintaining the common character of this policy and the control of how the money for this policy is spent, which, we must never forget, allows all european citizens to continue to have quality food on their tables. the last point i want to make quickly is social conditionality. i know that time is running out, but i think it is a fundamental question that we have put into the text and it is very relevant.
mr. chairman, please! i hope this time it works. i will start with direct payments, which remain the most important instrument for supporting european farmers' incomes. the problem is that the level of these payments varies widely and is not based on objective criteria or on production conditions. the amount of these payments depends on the production volume of the country over 20 years ago. it's a violation of the level playing field. it's time to end this historical method. ladies and gentlemen! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. in poland, as confirmed by the polish academy of sciences, as many as 70% of payment beneficiaries are not engaged in agricultural activity. these are usually owners of a few hectares, which means they are treated as a priority as small farms, and they are exempt from environmental activities. that's why it's so important to define the active farmer in the amendment to article 4 so that real farmers are the subject of the agricultural policy and the landlords are the ones who get the rent. no one loses, but the real farmers and the environment that we all care about so much, win.
mr president, thank you very much, good morning and greetings from the netherlands. we’re going to have a very important discussion today and in the coming weeks and months on the future of european agriculture. i think what is very important is that yesterday again it was once more confirmed by the european environmental agency how within europe we are still losing biodiversity, and there is a direct link with our common agricultural policies and that loss of biodiversity. so this is the chance to fix it, to really link the cap reform to the green deal, and how that possibility has been missed by the deal of the christian democrats, social democrats and liberals. just to go through a couple of these measures. first of all, there is this voluntary way of dealing with eco-schemes. so it’s voluntary, but if you don’t look at how you can comply with it, we come to very vague terminology like ‘you need to have actions to improve the sustainable use of pesticides’. what does that mean? almost any measure will comply with these eco-schemes; it’s not meaningful at all. on the other hand, the price we pay for that is that we are weakening even the general conditions, weakening the proposal of the previous commission that did not even link it to the green deal, so that’s another very clear example that we are just copy-pasting non-functioning conditions from the previous time to this time. and then on top of that, we are even stating that the direct payment should be at least 60%, with that capping the possibility of companies to go even further on greening, and on top of that no link at all with the farm to fork strategy being made. you know how weak this deal is, you know it very well. that’s why you do all the tricks now to influence the voting list and to make it as early as possible – because you know that the deal is weak and the more it will be scrutinised, the more people will doubt it. so therefore, dear progressive forces in renew and social democrats, follow your own voice and don’t follow this crappy deal that is missing the opportunity of linking this cap reform with the green deal that is so badly needed.
as you know, this is the first time that the european parliament's plenary session has allowed members to be heard remotely from the european parliament's offices in the member states. i note that this innovation, which strengthens both the functioning of the european parliament and the protection of colleagues from the risks of the pandemic, is working very positively and i think that this shows how we can ensure the smooth functioning of the parliamentary institutions of democracy and at the same time protect society from the additional risks due to the pandemic.
mr president, the common agricultural policy ensures that the interests of farmers are protected, but also that of consumers. we live in a world of constant change and the post-2020 cap will have to face current and future challenges. the cap must ensure greater subsidiarity and flexibility to take account of local conditions and needs, but at the same time it must remain united. member states are obliged not to impose on farmers new obligations not provided for in european regulations. farmers play a key role in combating climate change, protecting the environment and conserving landscapes and biodiversity. this policy will focus on the environment and climate, developing areas of the european union, and exploiting social and environmental opportunities. the cap also aims to respond to the problems facing the agricultural sector. the ageing of the rural population is a reality. encouraging young people to become farmers is a real challenge, but one that will ensure the future of europe's food security. the use of precision farming in europe is still very low. investment programmes in research and innovation will be a key priority and will allow european farmers to meet increasingly high standards. the cap is a partnership between agriculture and society, between europe and farmers. agriculture and the food industry make the european union one of the most important food producers and food security guarantors in the world, providing millions of jobs, and this needs to be strengthened beyond 2020.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a real global emergency, which is manifested in the increasingly frequent climatic catastrophes affecting our rural areas and our farmers, the call for radical change cannot go unheeded. to deal effectively with this emergency, we need a common and coordinated approach so that our farmers can take a further leap in the quality of environmental services for the benefit of the whole community. on the contrary, the cap reform proposal presented in 2018 places enormous responsibilities on the member states, in effect a renationalisation of european intervention for the agricultural sector and for rural areas. that is why we as the socialist group have asked for the debate on all three dossiers to be reopened, despite the vote in the committee on agriculture. a choice which we now claim as a success, given the crucial steps forward we have made. so let me thank all our negotiating team for the incredible work they have done starting with the cmu dossier, with the strengthening of market crisis management measures and the increased transparency along the chain to this on horizontal regulation, through which we want to safeguard the common dimension of the cap all the way up to the strategic plans. and it is precisely in the area of strategic plans that i am struck by the campaigns launched in recent days by some stakeholders against the results achieved thanks to the unremitting work of our negotiating team, steps forward that were unimaginable until a few months ago, to name just a few. we are asking for at least 30% of the funds under the first pillar to be devoted to ecosystems, the measure defined at european level which will have to accompany and guide our farmers towards increasingly sustainable production methods. we also want to increase spending on agri-environmental measures in the second pillar to 35%, adding a minimum threshold of 30% for sustainable investment, in line with the objectives of the green deal and precisely to align the cap with these objectives, we also call for a review by 2025 of the strategic plans, taking into account the regulations resulting from the implementation of the green deal, all without undermining the economic dimension of the cap, which according to the treaty must improve productivity and support farmers' incomes. we want agriculture to be even stronger and more competitive, and we cannot forget what our farmers and farm workers did during the covid emergency, putting their health at risk to ensure the availability of food that arrived every day on our tables. we have therefore worked towards an ambitious compromise that safeguards the social, economic and environmental sustainability of the sector. we are more than ever ready to meet the challenges posed by the farm2fork and biodiversity strategies, which are not intended to replace the cap, but to help the cap guide the 11 million european farmers towards common objectives. we therefore expect the commission, commissioner, to take responsibility for putting forward concrete legislative proposals, based on rigorous impact assessments, which we as co-legislators will assess and seek to improve in the interests of our farmers, agri-food producers and all the citizens of the union.
mr president, commissioner, what we have on the table today is not yet enough to bring the common agricultural policy into line with the expectations of european society. but it's a step in progress that we mustn't miss. we want a common policy that links urban and rural, east and west, with a balance between local flexibility and shared ambition. european agriculture needs a vision, not an aggregator of standards and administrative mechanisms. our decision must send a clear signal to farmers: we need you! without you, there is no green deal. because the green deal must be an opportunity for society, but also for farmers. when i see the plight of our farmers affected by drought, the difficulty of generating a decent income, the expectations of society regarding food, health and the environment, i tell you that we cannot wait any longer. the cap must be changed now and we can certainly use the revision clause, which we want in 2025, to take these matters a step further. any delay in these changes now would be to delay by three to four years an opportunity to give farmers the means to take the next step in adapting to the new realities. the approach we propose is a decisive shift in farming practices towards greater respect for natural resources. farmers need to be able to produce quality food at decent prices, knowing that it is in their interest, but also in the interest of society, to maintain biodiversity, water quality, soil fertility and reduce carbon emissions. agricultural practices called ecoschemes, investments in farms that produce without polluting or destroying, counseling to connect agriculture to digital, innovation will become the foundation of a model of agriculture, with nature and technology as allies to produce healthy food. public policy on agriculture, food and the environment certainly needs a thorough rethinking in the european union, but this stage of alignment should not be missed.
mr president, i want to welcome the green revolution of the future pact and the open outlook with the farm to fork and biodiversity strategies that bring opportunities. i particularly congratulate the s&d group on the mark it will leave by introducing the social dimension. the abuse of the workers must stop. the amendments that have appeared overnight on a crucial subject - an even tougher cap on payments to farmers - throw us, however, into a serious paradox that, unfortunately, we have not had time to analyse as we should have. that is, we ask farmers to make huge efforts for a climate-neutral europe and yet we want to impose ever-harder financial restrictions. we have promised europeans affordable food, and yet these restrictions risk leading to a decline in current production and an invasion of imports, which, in a poorer market, will dictate prices, dividing us into luxury food europeans and second-hand food europeans. we promised farmers that we would help them train a new generation, and yet these amendments will drive young people out of villages because agriculture will become more and more discouraging. we ask them to be at the forefront of the fight for biodiversity, and yet we push them to abandon land that some already can't work because of climate and lack of money. it's happening right now in my country, romania. these amendments, on such an important issue, affect thousands of farmers with honest investments and a lot of debt, to punish two billionaire oligarchs who do not represent european agriculture.
in writing. the current reform of the agricultural policy is ambitious, introducing the cap performance model and important environmental and climate change objectives, but the economic sustainability of farmers and the social sustainability of rural areas must remain equally important. direct payments are an important pillar for farmers and, as farmers do not yet have the same level of payments in all member states, i believe it is essential to achieve full external convergence of direct payments as soon as possible. during this period, the transitional national aid enabling support to be provided to farmers in vulnerable sectors should continue. we have to take account of the specificities of the member states and i am very sorry that we could not have more flexibility in the financial allocations under article 86 for the strategic plans. we need to protect all farmers, actively support rural areas, help to maintain agricultural jobs and develop new production capacities. i regret that we do not leave even more flexibility to member states in applying article 15 on strategic plans. the future common agricultural policy must be simple, flexible and reduce administrative red tape for our farmers to the minimum.
i'll open the first round of voting today. ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from 9.15 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. the vote will be taken as at the previous voting. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i call the first round of voting open. you can vote until 10:30. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
the agenda shall include the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 15 and 16 october 2020, in particular the negotiations on the future relationship with the united kingdom (2020/2773 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all debates this part-session, and no 'blue card' requests or references to the rules of procedure will be accepted, because of the obvious organisational conditions in which this part-session is taking place. the commission will also be able to provide assistance at a distance from the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states, a new procedure which is proceeding very efficiently.
president of the european council. – mr president, brexit means brexit like theresa may said. but brexit also means making choices about our future relationship. we want a deal but not at any cost. the european council was extremely clear, we are 100% united and we expressed our unwavering support to our chief negotiator michel barnier and we re-confirmed all the principles of his mandate. in fact, we face three extremely difficult issues: the level playing field; governance; and fisheries, and we need to find solutions in line with our principles. on the level playing field it’s a matter of the integrity of the single market, a question of fair competition. our uk friends say they want to maintain the highest standards. if that’s the case, why don’t they commit to them? we don’t need words, we need guarantees. the same goes for governance; the internal market bill, which clearly violates the withdrawal agreements, reminds us just how important this is. what’s the point of negotiating, signing and ratifying an international agreement if it is not implemented in full? in case of violation of the agreement we need to be able to bring the dispute to binding independent arbitration and get a swift resolution. lastly on fisheries. brexit was not our decision and it was not our fishermen’s decision. stopping access to uk water would cause extraordinary damage to our fishing fleets. yes, we want to keep access to uk waters for fishermen, exactly like the uk wants to keep access to a huge and diversified markets for its companies. mr president, dear members of parliament, in june 2016 the united kingdom took a democratic decision to leave the european union. we respected this sovereign decision in 2016, and we respect sovereignty now, uk sovereignty now. our uk friends say they want an ambitious and close relationship. we welcome this because we want the same, but the uk wants access to a single market while at the same time being able to digress from our standards and regulations when it suits them. on ne peut pas avoir le beurre, l’argent du beurre et le sourire de la crémière. you can’t have your cake and eat it too. in fact, the united kingdom now has an important choice to make about its own future. it’s not about choosing a negotiation tactic, it’s about choosing the model of society, the model of economy for their own future. do our british friends want to regulate state aid? and do they want to maintain high standards in health, food security or climate, in close relationship with europe? if so, why not commit to them in our future agreement? ladies and gentlemen, we are determined to ensure that all businesses – british, chinese, european or from anywhere – follow the same principles when operating in our market. it’s only fair. time is very short and we stand ready to negotiate 24/7 on all subjects, based on legal texts. the uk has a big decision to make. it’s their free and sovereign choice and we will always respect them whatever choice they make but that sovereign answer will determine the level of access to our internal market, this is just common sense. we want a deal which is fair and balanced but we are also ready in case of no-deal. ladies and gentlemen, our strategy ‘with africa and not for africa’ was another important topic of our meeting. we need more than a partnership with africa. we need a new alliance with this continent. africa is more than just a neighbour. africa is a natural partner because of our geography, our history and our cultures. today, our two continents are more interdependent than ever and there is enormous potential for even greater cooperation. we need to harness the vast opportunities for the benefit of people on both continents and the economic dimension of a partnership will be key. investments and financing would be crucial in the digital and knowledge economy, in renewable energy and in transport, health, agri-food systems. one word on debt relief – we fully support international efforts on debt relief, especially in the context of g20, and we are ready to intensify talks in order to deliver on that, but all global players should do their part. we also stand ready to further support efforts on rule of law, peace and security, good governance and, of course, human rights. we want to work with our african partners on mobility and addressing all aspects of migration. we want a mutually beneficial partnership that’s balanced and comprehensive, guided by the principles of solidarity and shared responsibility and we stand ready to step up cooperation in the multilateral organisations and fora. we will complete it together with our african partners at our next meeting with the african union later this year. we also had an orientation debate on climate. we want climate neutrality by 2050, as we decided last year, and to get there we need to update our 2030 target. we discussed the commission’s 2030 climate proposal, including the emissions reduction target of at least 55% by 2030 and we’ll come back to this topic in december. nous reviendrons sur ce sujet au mois de décembre, notre objectif étant de conclure un accord sur ce sujet au niveau du conseil européen avant la fin de l’année. ce sera un débat difficile, nous le mesurons bien. nous devrons prendre en considération les différents points de départ et les circonstances dans différents pays, mais garder à l’esprit cette ambition de faire du pacte vert pour l’europe le moteur pour le développement, le moteur pour la prospérité et pour le bien-être en europe et, plus largement, dans le monde. c’est aussi le sens de la diplomatie climatique que nous tentons d’activer avec beaucoup de force et beaucoup d’ambition. chers collègues, vous le savez, non seulement la covid-19 n’a pas disparu, mais nous faisons même face à la deuxième vague et elle est brutale. elle est douloureuse, une fois encore, pour les victimes, pour leurs familles, pour les soignants, partout en europe, pour toutes celles et ceux qui sont directement mobilisés pour faire face à cette crise dure qui frappe le monde et qui frappe l’europe également. vous l’avez vu, dans plusieurs pays européens, des mesures restrictives sévères ont de nouveau dû être prises pour contenir la propagation du virus. nous avons eu un débat intense sur le sujet, nous avons considéré que nous devions continuer à renforcer considérablement les efforts pour plus de coopération et plus de coordination sur le plan européen. que nous devions tenter de progresser pour améliorer les capacités de régler ensemble la question des voyages à l’intérieur de l’union européenne; coopérer pour tenter d’harmoniser – ce qui n’est pas simple – les questions de quarantaine et avoir des règles qui soient davantage cohérentes entre pays européens sur le sujet et surtout – c’est à mon avis la question essentielle pour les prochaines semaines, probablement pour les prochains mois, dans l’attente d’un vaccin qui puisse véritablement faire durablement la différence –, sur la question du testing et la question du tracing, fondamentales et extrêmement importantes. nous avons eu l’occasion d’avoir un échange alimenté par les travaux de la commission et par les travaux de la présidence tournante allemande. nous avons convenu que très régulièrement, y compris par des vidéoconférences au niveau des chefs d’état ou de gouvernement, nous reviendrions sur ce sujet pour tenter de donner les impulsions utiles afin que des projets puissent être réalisés. cette question de la covid-19 m’amène naturellement à la question aussi des conséquences. il ne s’agit pas seulement des conséquences psychologiques dures pour nos concitoyens, pas seulement des conséquences dures sur le plan social, en lien avec les impacts économiques qui frappent et vont frapper durement des activités économiques, qui vont singulièrement toucher des secteurs plus sensibles que d’autres aux conséquences de cette situation difficile. cela m’amène naturellement à la question du budget européen et du fonds de relance européen. nous avons eu l’occasion, monsieur le président, d’avoir un échange avec vous sur cette question. je forme le vœu, une fois encore, que les prochains jours soient l’occasion de toutes et tous nous engager réellement afin de pouvoir être à la hauteur, de garantir la crédibilité européenne, de faire en sorte que les orientations fortes et historiques – je veux encore une fois le souligner –, prises au niveau du conseil européen au mois de juillet – grâce aussi, c’est vrai, aux impulsions données par le parlement européen avant le mois de juillet –, puissent donner lieu à une décision implémentée. il s’agit, en fait, de faire en sorte que, le plus rapidement possible, les citoyens européens et les entreprises européennes puissent bénéficier des effets positifs de cette ambition pour la relance, pour le soutien économique, pour le soutien à la prospérité et au bien-être, partout en europe.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, president of the european council, honourable members of the european parliament, i have pleasure in addressing you today on behalf of the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, who is, as i am sure you are aware, in preventive self-isolation. there is a question that is on every european’s mind today: when will the pandemic finally pass? no one has the answer. the second wave has come. infections are rising at a worrying speed again and our member states again have to take action to contain the second wave and eventually to stop it. since the first wave hit us, europe has achieved a lot. let me just name our main strands of work: vaccines, european coordination and our resilience to prevent future crises. first, progress on vaccines. we now have three contracts in place with pharmaceutical companies and three more are being finalised. this means that, if they manage to develop a vaccine, there will be doses reserved for europeans. it also means that all member states will get a future vaccine on the same terms and at the same time. last week, the european commission delivered a vaccination plan, a european framework on who should get the vaccine first. our vaccination plan is based on science and on common sense. health workers will take precedence. high on the list will also be people over 60, people at risk because of their health and of course essential workers, people who cannot socially distance and people who are disadvantaged because of their socioeconomic background. we want to protect these people because it’s not only a matter of social justice. we believe it’s the smartest way to ease the pressure on our health system and slow down contagion. second, progress on european coordination. last week, the council adopted the commission’s proposal on colour codes and data exchange. this means that all member states are now speaking the same language when it comes to their citizens’ health and it means clarity for people who need to travel across the border. it is now essential to implement these decisions in full and it is also essential to agree on common rules on testing and quarantine. from spain to sweden, we are all facing the same disease so our precautions against it should also be the same. but we are also aware that we still have a long way to go. it will be months before a vaccine is found and distributed. we must be very disciplined and help everyone to contain the spread of the virus as much as possible in the coming weeks and months. if we fail to do so, we run the risk not only of losing the achievements in the area of health protection, but we are also risking europe’s economic recovery, which we launched with great effort before the summer break. no one in europe wants a second lockdown. people don’t want that and companies don’t want it either. that is why i call on european citizens to behave responsibly. protect yourself and others. but there is also a lot at stake economically in other areas. the president of the european council, charles michel, has just touched upon them, namely our negotiations with the united kingdom and our climate target for 2030. let me first update you on our negotiations with the uk. the deal we are trying to achieve would be absolutely unprecedented. this was the will of the eu and the uk when agreeing on the scope of the future partnership in our joint political declaration and it is still our will. no other economy is as closely aligned to ours as the british economy. it is only natural after almost 40 years as a part of the single market. uk companies produce the same products, within the same value chains, and with almost no transport costs to reach our market. we need to ensure that the european union and the united kingdom’s companies face fair competition on the eu market. this is why we have put so much emphasis on ensuring a level playing field and on governance and conflict resolution. together with fisheries, these are the main outstanding issues where we are still far apart. on each of these issues, we still have to test whether it is possible to find common ground with our british friends. this needs hard work. we have made it clear that we are ready to engage intensively to find solutions. there is no time to lose. our objective is still to reach an agreement that will pave the way for a new fruitful relationship between the eu and the uk. we will continue to work for such an agreement, but not at any price. my good colleague and friend, michel barnier, will provide you with additional information on the subject. if you allow me, i will now turn to the withdrawal agreement, which must be fully operational as of 1 january 2021. deal or no deal, the withdrawal agreement must be respected. (applause) it is not only a matter of trust, which is of course key, but also of political responsibility vis-à-vis our citizens and peace and stability on the island of ireland. therefore i welcome that, at the last joint committee meeting, we managed to strike a constructive approach. now it will be vital that this translates into concrete workable operational solutions. finally, let me say a few words on our climate ambitions. two weeks ago, this parliament voted for a very ambitious recommendation. the european council has not yet reached an agreement on targets and percentages but, rest assured, the commission will continue to push for europe’s heads of state and government to unite behind an ambitious climate objective of at least 55% by 2030 and this agreement must come before the end of the year. last week, we presented two more stepping stones to pave the way towards 55%, the renovation wave and the methane strategy. our next steps will include revision of the emissions trading system, the strategy for offshore wind, the revised regulation for the trans-european energy networks, the mobility strategy and the new proposal for the circular economy. we have a plan that can lead us to 55% and, thanks to next generation eu, we have the resources to turn it into reality. we know how we can achieve this goal, but it is also important to remind ourselves why we are doing it. we are going for at least 55% because this is the only way to contain global warming. we made a commitment in paris and we want to keep our word, but we are also doing this because it makes sense economically. if we go for at least 55%, it will strengthen our first-mover advantage in clean technologies. our companies will be the leaders in tomorrow’s markets. we will become less dependent on energy imports from the rest of the world. as we work here in europe, they are also engaging on the global stage so that other countries match our ambition. europe wants to lead the way and today many others are following our example but never forget that in the near future companies will compete on international markets based on who has the best green technologies. we have to increase the pace of green innovation to remain competitive. it is the right thing to do and the smartest choice as well. fifty—five percent is an insurance on europe’s future. i have to repeat and underline that it’s decision time. europe must be ambitious for our planet, for our economy and for our next generation.
head of the task force for relations with the united kingdom. mr president, i also thank you, mr president, and maroš šefčovič for allowing me to say a few words about this negotiation for which i am responsible under your authority. i would also like to begin by personally thanking maroš šefčovič for the work he is doing, i can tell you, with great determination and rigour to guide the joint committee on the implementation of the withdrawal agreement. this is a fundamental point in its connection with the negotiations, since, as all your group chairmen have pointed out together a few weeks ago, it is a matter of trust. to build a new agreement on the future relationship, we need confidence in the implementation of the existing agreement. the european council, as charles michel said, was a very important moment for this negotiation: it reaffirmed to our british partners and friends that the european union wants an agreement, an agreement to the mutual benefit of each party, respecting the autonomy and sovereignty of each party, and reflecting a balanced compromise. however, there will be no agreement at any price, as our president, ursula von der leyen, has said very clearly and repeatedly. this is the position at the heart of the mandate given to me, confirmed by your parliament and confirmed by the european council, also reaffirming our constructive attitude to continue the discussion and negotiation. i would like to remind you that the european union's position in this negotiation has not changed and will not change until the last day. we will remain calm, we will remain constructive, we will remain respectful but also, of course, firm and determined in defending the principles and interests of each of the countries of the european union and of the european union itself. we will seek the necessary compromises on both sides to reach an agreement until the last day of the year and our door will always be open. as president charles michel and maroš šefčovič have just said, we are ready to intensify our discussions at any time and on any subject, and to do so on the basis of legal texts, since it is a question of agreeing, of negotiating an agreement in the form of an international treaty, therefore a legal document. we were prepared, with my team, to come to london as early as monday, early this week. what will not change, either, is the framework we have set up on behalf of the european union for this ambitious partnership with the united kingdom, which respects our decision-making autonomy; which respects the integrity of the internal market; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the council of ministers; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the council of ministers; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; which respects the independence of the european parliament; and which respects the independence of the european parliament. and safeguards the long-term economic, political and social interests of all countries, citizens and businesses in the european union. these principles have been set out and stated by the union since the very moment the united kingdom made the sovereign choice to leave the european union over four years ago. these principles are, of course, in my view compatible with respect for british sovereignty, which is a legitimate concern of the boris johnson government. what is at stake, ladies and gentlemen, in these negotiations is not the sovereignty of one or the other of the parties to the negotiations. we have said it in the political declaration: any future agreement will be made with respect for the decision-making autonomy of the european union and with respect for british sovereignty. the stakes are simply - but they are already very high - the organisation, the right organisation, of our future relationship after the divorce, which is taken for granted. we want as close as possible to our economic cooperation, security, joint investment, research, education and, perhaps, in the future, cooperation on foreign and defence policy. we have of course heard the red lines raised by boris johnson on the role of the european court of justice, on the legislative autonomy of the united kingdom, on fisheries. for several months now we have been engaging constructively at the negotiating table to see how these british red lines that we know of could be compatible with our own principles and our own interests, with the will to reach an agreement between us. it is obvious that any international agreement implies constraints between the two parties, constraints which are mutually accepted. that's it for the general framework of the negotiation. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that despite the difficulties, an agreement is within our reach. if we are prepared on both sides to work constructively and in a spirit of compromise, if we move forward in the coming days on the basis of legal texts, as we wish, and, last but not least, if we are prepared in the coming days to tackle and resolve the most difficult issues. the time is limited, very limited, it is even more limited every day, and that is why we must find solutions with the british, if they want to, to the most difficult problems. i told the coordination group chaired by david mcallister and its members yesterday that i thank them - there are many here - as i said at the conference of commission presidents, that we have made progress in recent weeks with the british on police and judicial cooperation (i know how vigilant your parliament is): we have made progress on the european convention on human rights, data protection, europol, eurojust and extradition. here we see clearly the outline of an agreement. we have made progress on transport: the uk government is committed to a specific level playing field, particularly in the field of road transport, which is important to us; on the participation of the united kingdom in certain important programmes of the european union: horizon europe, research, erasmus; and finally, on thematic cooperation, such as public health, which is so urgent at the moment, or cybersecurity. these are the areas where we have made good and positive progress through negotiation. on other subjects there are still disagreements, although we also see prospects for agreement, particularly on trade in goods, services, energy, coordination of social security. finally, there are three areas, as charles michel mentioned earlier, where we must make progress because there are real differences: the level playing field, fisheries and governance. the level playing field - let us say in a slightly less technical way - is about economic and trade fair play, at the heart of our future economic relations. the british often refer to the canadian model in their speeches, but we have, as maroš šefčovič said earlier, a unique proximity with the united kingdom: 0 kilometres. zero kilometres between the republic of ireland and the united kingdom, between us and the united kingdom, and an economic interconnection built with the british over 47 years, which makes this situation unlike any other. that is why this agreement we want will be unprecedented. it is also the first time in our history that we are negotiating a trade agreement with a third country on the basis of the principle, or the proposal, that there will be no tariffs between us and no quotas. we have never done this with any third country, and certainly not with canada, or more recently with japan. and then we are negotiating this agreement with a third country for the first time, i repeat, in a context of regulatory divergence: it is not a question here, as in all previous agreements, of encouraging convergence, it is a question of controlling the divergence that the british want to regain and will regain with brexit. that is why a level playing field remains a fundamental requirement, as the president of the european council has stressed. we have also noted with interest in recent weeks that the british have a better understanding of this requirement and have evolved to recognise that there is a need for fundamental principles on state aid control, beyond what exists in existing free trade agreements or in the wto, and also non-regression standards with real guarantees of national implementation and a dispute settlement mechanism. but now the intentions must be translated into negotiation. it is also necessary that each party should be able to adopt unilateral measures in response to risks of distortion of competition. that is the first major point of disagreement, but i think it is possible to find a way. similarly, the governance of our future agreement is key: it is a global structure for a global agreement, it is binding dispute settlement mechanisms with an effective sanctions system. here too, maroš šefčovič recalled earlier the risk attached to the withdrawal agreement and its respect. that is why we are obviously going to be demanding in this negotiation for the future relationship, in terms of dispute settlement and governance, because we have this warning from the british that worries us. the fisheries sector is the last major sticking point: there will be no economic agreement without a sustainable, fair solution for fishermen on both sides. we will therefore insist to the end on guaranteeing a sustainable future for our european fishermen. it requires reciprocal and stable access to water, and it requires a fair distribution of quotas. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, and in thanking you for your confidence, i would like to remind you that our door remains open and will remain open until the last useful day, to work together with our team, which is also your negotiating team. we are prepared to work very hard, day and night if necessary, to finalise a draft agreement within a time limit which must allow the necessary time for democracy, that is to say your parliament and also the national parliaments and the council, to express themselves. we will of course continue to keep you fully informed, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of the progress of these negotiations. to reach an agreement, it takes two, and then you have to agree at the end. we are not sure that we will succeed, but i think it is possible. that is why we must be prepared to face the consequences of a possible no deal and at the same time continue our preparations for this scenario, which we do not want, by the end of the year. and we have been carrying out this preparatory work for many months in good cooperation with all the parties concerned and with the member states. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our attitude and your unity, the unity of the 27, the unity of the political groups here, are the key to the success of this negotiation, which, as we well know, concerns not only the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union for generations to come, but also, more broadly, the future of the european project. (applause) i would like to thank
before i give the floor to the representatives of the political groups, i would like to warn my colleagues, especially those who are connected remotely, that there was a problem with the voting system, but it has now been solved and it is possible to vote. the deadline for voting has been extended to 11 a.m. and the announcement will be made at 1.30 p.m., as we have indicated.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues in times of crisis the citizens of the european union expect that we provide solutions to the problems that they are facing. whenever there is a crisis, whenever people face difficulties, they expect that the european union to help them. this was the case ten years ago during the economic and financial crisis. this was the case five years ago during the migration and refugee crisis, and this is the case now during the corona crisis. the fact that people expect us to deliver in times of crisis, shows that they believe we can deliver. it shows a genuine trust of the people in europe, in the european institutions, and this is why we need to provide now what people expect of us – provide solutions. these are times in which we have to trust science; trust the authorities; work together; stay united; keep in mind that facts matter; defend together a rules-based society; trust politicians who have solutions, and say loud and clear – the institutions of the european union delivered in overcoming the crisis and, under michel barnier’s leadership, in keeping the eu together in the negotiations for finding the best possible relationship with the united kingdom for the future. the developments of recent days have shown to us that passing relatively well through a first wave of corona crisis, is no guarantee of passing well through the second and through the third wave. the developments of recent days have shown to us that the corona crisis is not a short-term crisis, but it will be at least a medium-term crisis, with consequences, potentially, for the long term. when people expect us to do more, when we have a crisis where it’s clear that united we can pass through it better, when people expect us to do more, we need to equip the european union with the tools it needs to overcome the crisis. and one of our essential tools is the budget of the european union. in the epp group, we are committed to a quick conclusion of the negotiations on the eu budget and on the recovery and resilience facility, so that both instruments can enter into force on 1 january 2021. we do respect the many good elements of the agreement of the july european council. however, we want to find solutions to allocate further resources where they are needed. we saw in recent weeks that the eu health programmes need more money, and this is why mr president sassoli, i would like to support what you publicly said yesterday – the creation of the recovery and resilience facility of next generation eu should not become a burden for the budget of the european union. i would like to support what president sassoli said yesterday. we should not place the interest payments for next generation eu within the eu budget. we should not have less money for farmers, for researchers, for students, because we have created the recovery and resilience facility. as the rapporteur for the recovery and resilience facility, i would like to tell our colleagues in the council that we are working and respecting our schedule here in the european parliament. we will be delivering. we have no delays here. we will adopt our position in november. be ready for the final negotiations with the council, and the message to the people is, we will provide the facility that will help them overcome this crisis, and which will protect them for the next crisis.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the ghost of the virus is striking europe again. curfews and restrictions on movement are shaking up the working and social life of our towns and cities. the second wave puts the health care system back on the line. if a month ago there were more than two million infections in europe, today there are more than four. the forecasts of the international monetary fund, published last week, point to a collapse of the euro zone. in addition, the health and economic crisis is pushing us to the brink of social drama with increasing poverty and inequality. as the european anti-poverty network reminds us, it is unacceptable that some 22% of the population of the european union is at risk of poverty or social exclusion today. and if all this were not enough, the horizon is darkened by the prospect of abrupt brexit later this year. there's no room for complacency. the european union must learn from the mistakes of the past and of yesterday. mr barnier, you also have the support of the social democratic family in your latest effort to achieve the best possible relationship with the united kingdom. but let us not do so at the expense of one of our foundations: the internal market. we must not accept unfair competition, distorted state aid or social and environmental dumping. along with the mistakes of the past, we must also avoid the mistakes of yesterday. and i think it is important to make a reference today to something that the council did not address, but which this parliament continues to insist on, and that is the need, today more than ever, to address this conference on the future of europe in order to have instruments that are really in line with the times in which we live. mr michel, the european council cannot go back to the austerity that has convulsed our welfare state since 2008. if we often say that education is the best antidote to extremism, why do they propose to reduce erasmus? if we are used to saying that science is key to the ecological and digital transition, why cut horizon europe? if we are now debating the need to give the european union strategic autonomy to build on our health, why not strengthen the health programme? and let us not forget the support we must also give to those who suffer most in africa and latin america. because let's be clear, no one is going to be safe until we're all safe. let's use the recovery plan and the budget to save lives and jobs. and to offset the excess debt generated by the crisis. listen to the imf. now they are calling for higher taxes, for the wealthiest individuals and the most profitable companies to protect the most vulnerable. and in the european union we have the instruments to make this possible: our own resources. we have to end the digital tax hole. it is not acceptable that us multinationals should declare half their profits in europe in a single member state with a dishonest corporation tax. president von der leyen has pledged to re-launch the google fee if the oecd fails to reach an agreement this year. now you must comply. and do not get into a false dilemma about the allocation of funds. the taxpayers' effort cannot be used to finance countries with governments that violate the rule of law. we heard yesterday that almost eight out of ten european citizens are in favour of linking the funds to full respect for democratic values. let's act on it. a delay in the arrival of aid would frustrate the hopes of millions of europeans and would push them towards anti-europeanism. tomorrow is not written. with tenacity and generosity on the part of all, we are in time to guarantee the future of present and future generations.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues, the european union’s future relations with the united kingdom has reached a critical point. the eu was always willing to negotiate, but mr johnson’s government preferred political games. from the beginning of the campaign of the referendum, until now, he played games. the eu wants, and needs, a strong partnership with our uk neighbours, but, for that to happen, we need a serious partner, and serious partnerships should have a clear understanding. firstly, we will not ratify any trade deal as long as the withdrawal agreement is not fully respected, especially the protocol on northern ireland. secondly, my group will only give its consent to an agreement that protects the interests of european citizens, and is fair and beneficial to our economy. any possible deal should ensure a level playing field, as you said, mr michel, have an effective mechanism of governance, be fair when it comes to fisheries, and respect our strict data protection norms – and we insist on that. if the united kingdom wants a deal – which is in the best interests of uk citizens also – its government needs to sit at the negotiating table until one is reached, and stop playing delaying tactics. and mr michel, you have our full support in your work. let me say some words on the pandemic also. europe is on the brink of a second wave of the covid-19 pandemic. the coordination of free movement, requested by my political group and parliament, is a step forward, but we must strengthen operational coordination at eu level. we have to urgently prepare in order to mitigate the serious social and economic hardship this second wave will cause our citizens. the commission and member states cannot allow themselves to work in anything less than a coordinated manner and learn from the mistakes we witnessed last spring. the cost of national selfishness is too high, and it is simply unacceptable. furthermore, i hope it is now crystal clear to everyone that we need a european health policy to complement national ones, and this coordination on health will not be enough. we need investment, common investment, and we need an element in the budget for a real european tool on health policy. let me end by saying, mr charles michel, that this issue of health and covid-19 coordination should be, in my opinion, on the agenda of every single european council in the next months until we are out of this crisis because coordination and exchange of information is essential for this.
in writing. – it is in the interest of both the european union and the united kingdom to agree on an as close as possible partnership for the future. however, any agreement is worth being negotiated and concluded if there is trust that it will be implemented in full. the uk government just dealt a severe blow to this trust when it introduced a bill unilaterally overriding the withdrawal agreement, a binding international contract painstakingly negotiated for over three years and concluded less than a year ago. arriving to an agreement and avoiding a disastrous no-deal outcome would be in the benefit of our industries, services and people. the eu should be ready to negotiate day and night to find the compromises needed for both sides, but only if we have the assurance that the withdrawal agreement and the provisions of the new partnership will be fully respected.
in writing. – this report recalls the essential role of forests for our planet’s ecosystem, biodiversity and future. it is a reminder that biologically diverse forests, being natural carbon sinks, are indispensable in the fight against climate change, in line with the paris agreement’s goals to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels. fighting illegal timber logging is also central. it recalls the due diligence criteria of the eu timber regulation. the text repeats its demand that imports of timber and timber products should be more thoroughly checked at the eu’s borders to ensure that imported products do indeed comply with our legislation. moreover, i want to stress that trade and investment policy need to be reviewed in order to address the global deforestation challenge in a more effective manner, and by creating globally a level playing field, and take into account the link between trade agreements and global biodiversity as well as forest ecosystems. finally i support the calls on the commission and member states to develop information and awareness-raising campaigns about the imported timber products and their impact on the world’s forests and biodiversity-rich ecosystems. our youth and next generation are on our side and we shouldn’t lose them.
in writing. – claims that the investment citizenship/visa programmes run by various member states pose serious security threats would be more credible if placed in the context of cross-border criminality within the eu. olaf and the court of auditors have repeatedly indicated the incidence of massive cross-border fraud in the union’s flagship policies. this has led to their operations being tightened, not cancelled. the same could be done with respect to citizenship/visa programmes if necessary, such as by appropriate aml legislation. allegations being made against these programmes bear no comparison to ongoing criminal abuses attached to the union’s own policies. moreover, claims that the programmes contradict the eu’s values become less credible in the wider context of how all european states accord citizenship and residence rights. some of those who most endorse the claims, have arrangements by which such rights are given widely, non-transparently and with minimal security clearance. investment citizenship/visa programmes form part of the sovereign rights of member states and are strictly outside the competences of the union. any treatment at eu level of their application can be legitimate only if it forms part of a deeper examination overall of how all states – big and small – accord residence and citizenship to non-eu nationals.
in writing. – i would like to welcome the initiative of the commission to launch the infringement procedures against cyprus and malta regarding their ‘golden passport’ schemes, as well as to highlight its concerns regarding an investor citizenship scheme operated by bulgaria. besides the investor citizenship scheme, 19 member states, plus the united kingdom, are using investor residency schemes, which gives investors the chance to gain residency in a given country. these schemes are posing a serious threat to our security and the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and corruption, and are undermining the essence of the european union and the freedoms that come with citizenship and residence of a member state. a country like cyprus should avoid raising the suspicion that they are not cooperating sincerely with the european institutions on other justice matters, such as its participation in the eppo. notably, it should move swiftly to appoint full time european delegated prosecutors, as this is a guarantee of independence of the eppo. it is time to stop criminals from entering the european union and never allow them to launder their money if we really want to fight corruption efficiently.
mr president, the report presents the overall picture without analysing the differences in the resources available to the member states. if we look at the limitations imposed by the climate act, which was just voted in parliament, and the taxonomy regulation, we find that over time we have to phase out coal, hydrocarbon - including natural gas - and nuclear energy. this means, for example, that for a country like romania, in the next few decades, it will eliminate 60% of its energy sources for the population and industry, which will transform it from an energy independent country into a country that will have to resort to massive imports of electricity. and also, if we look at the just transition fund, we see that there is a big discrepancy between the goals that we have set for ourselves and the resources that we are putting in place to make the transition possible and to affect, say, in a similar way, equally, all the states of the european union. so i think there are two conclusions that we need to draw: one, and this is the most important, is that we need to set realistic targets, and the second conclusion is that the targets we set for ourselves should be in full agreement with the financial resources we are allocating.
we now come to the third round of voting. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. the sitting will be closed at 9.15 p.m. today and will resume at 8.45 a.m. tomorrow with the announcement of the results of the third round of voting today. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
after consulting the political groups, i would like to inform you of the following changes to the agenda: after the redistribution of votes in the different voting procedures, the final votes on the cap package - jahr, müller and andrieu reports - are now being moved to the second voting procedure of today. the third vote scheduled for today, friday 23 october, from 6 p.m. to 7:15 p.m. is therefore cancelled, as is the announcement of the results at 9.30 p.m. updated voting information is available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'important information and documents'. is there any objection ? change is approved.
we shall proceed to the first vote today. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 9.00 a.m. to 10.15 a.m. the same voting method as in previous elections will be used. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the first ballot open. you can vote until 10.15. the results of the first vote will be announced at 12.45 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 9.01 a.m.)
we now come to the opening of the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 1.15 to 2.30 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you have until 2:30 p.m. to cast your vote. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.19 p.m.)
the minutes of the 19 to 23 october part-sessions shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions. * * * * * * * * * finally, at the end of today's sitting, the president asked me to make the following statement, which i fully agree with. so on behalf of the president, on behalf of myself and all the members, i would like to thank the staff of parliament and all the people who have made this plenary session possible and who are contributing to the work of parliament on a daily basis in the present challenging situation. without them, members of parliament would not be able to continue to exercise their mandate fully, to legislate and to represent our citizens in times when democracy must be at the heart of our union. i thank you for your work, your dedication, your professionalism and your commitment. i would like to express my gratitude to the commissioner for his work.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 23 october 2020.
ladies and gentlemen, we began our last plenary session by paying tribute to samuel paty, a teacher who was killed because he believed in freedom of expression. it is with great sadness and emotion that we open our session with words of condolence, as our thoughts go out to the victims of the recent islamic terrorist attacks in europe, and our thoughts go out to their families, their friends. a fatal stabbing in dresden, germany, in early october: it was a terrorist attack. on october 29, three people were killed in and around a church in nice. then again on november 2nd, four people were killed and several injured in the center of vienna. every victim is a part of us and every attack, wherever it occurs, we must feel it as an attack on us, an attack on the core values we fight for, we discuss: freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of conscience. these are attacks on the open society we want, attacks on the inclusive society we believe in. it is therefore our common responsibility to combat all forms of extremism and to stand united in solidarity against violence and hatred. the european parliament will continue to make a strong contribution to our living together in peace. please join me in a moment of silence for our victims. (parliament, standing, observing a minute's silence) ' as you know, mr president, in order to ensure equal treatment for members who are both present in the chamber and, many more, who are connected to us remotely, parliament has in recent months, during its plenary sessions, decided not to accept references to the rules of procedure because that would be a way of not ensuring equal treatment. any objections to the rules of procedure, mr president, can be made in writing and will be dealt with later, as we have done in the past. mr ferber, you do not have the floor. you don't have the floor.
the minutes of the sitting of 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 october and the texts adopted were distributed. are there any comments? (the minutes of previous sittings are approved) but please do not disturb this plenary. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) that's what's been decided. i ask you, as experienced parliamentarians, to respect the rules we have agreed upon and the rules provide, in this case... listen to me! listen to me, please! the rules provide for non-discriminatory treatment. you can do this in writing, as has been done. i shall then take your request to the bureau of parliament and we shall decide, because there are bodies in this parliament which decide, not just the president! mr ferber, no, i do not allow you to say such things. you are so experienced that you know there are bodies responsible! let us go ahead, please, sit down, because that is not possible, i will take your request to the bureau of parliament and we will decide. let's move on. the plenary session is open, so that sign looks out of place to me, sorry! the plenary session is now in session. look, your honor, i am very patient. i have already told you that i will take your requests to the competent bodies of parliament, we will discuss them and i will give you an answer. but now, please take your seats and let's begin the plenary session. i don't want to call you to order. your honor, please take a seat. please take a seat.
let us now get down to business. the final draft agenda approved by the conference of presidents on 22 october 2020 in accordance with rule 157 has been distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda. - wednesday the council and commission statements on the multiannual financial framework (including own resources), the rule of law conditionality mechanism and the european recovery fund are added as the first item in the afternoon. two statements by the vice-president/high representative for foreign affairs on: 1) the fight against impunity in crimes against journalists worldwide; the european council meeting in brussels on the geopolitical implications of the abraham accords in the middle east has been postponed until the second part-session in november. the debate on the reports by mr mureşan and mr tang (a9-0198/2020) on the investment plan for a sustainable europe - how to finance the green deal has been moved to thursday as the last item of the morning. the sitting will continue until 10.30 p.m. - thursday the reports by mr bilbao barandica (a9-0180/2020, a9-0182/2020) and mr roose (a9-0185/2020, a9-0184/2020) which were part of the joint debate on the fisheries partnership agreements with senegal and the seychelles, are put to the vote directly. the reports by mr winkler (a9-0199/2020, a9-0202/2020), which were part of the joint debate on the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china, are put to the vote directly. the time slot from 15.00 to 16.30 is therefore cancelled. the following items are also added directly to the votes: the report by mr fernandes and mr tinagli on the establishment of the investeu programme 2021-2027 (a9-0203/2020) and three objections under rule 112, two on genetically modified maize and one on genetically modified soybean (b9-0346/2020, b9-0349/2020, b9-0347/2020). finally, i should like to inform you that the votes are distributed in several rounds, taking into account the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes on separate and distinct parts. information on the distribution of votes in different rounds is available on parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. i also remind you that this redistribution may be subject, as you will understand, to further changes and the relevant information will be available on the website.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had adopted my report on the adjustment of mifid ii in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and a large majority of the groups, including a large majority of members in this house, supported the report being placed on the agenda of this plenary session. it was rejected by the communists. i find it interesting that, contrary to all the custom of accepting majority decisions here, this item was not put on the agenda and i therefore ask that this item be placed on the agenda of this mini-plenary session. ----------1 text corrected at the request of the speaker in accordance with article 5 of the decision of the bureau of 3 may 2004.
the problem, mr ferber, is that we have a very tight timetable for the way the plenary is held, and that is of course very difficult to put in. we could go on a consultation tour, or what? there's no room. there is no possibility of entering another vote at this time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to point out that it was intended to be on the agenda of the mini-plenary session, but it was taken down. we have tried to put it back on the table through the group of the party of european socialists. now it's being taken down again. other matters, which are much shorter in their decision-making processes - and you have just mentioned a number of points - have nevertheless been brought up. i really wonder what the criteria are for deciding here. this is about legislation that we urgently need to do because it has covid relevance. i would therefore be delighted if it could be possible to ensure that this item is included in the agenda, as the epp, s&d, renew and, if i am correct, the ecr have done in the conference of group chairmen. i think that is unacceptable. there is no rule in the rules of procedure that says that unanimity should be required because there is no longer any possibility of debate. mr president, if you wish to be able to fulfil your role as the parliamentary representative, i urge you to do so. what you're doing here is not fulfilling that responsibility. you have privileges, you have a driver, we have to use public transportation here. is that the protection you're giving us? of course, you get the daily allowance every day. we are not getting it because you have ordered it without any basis in law. they are hindering the work of parliament on this particular matter and on many other matters as well. i would ask that the report on the mini-review of mifid ii be placed on the agenda. the following table is added: text corrected at the request of the speaker in accordance with article 5 of the bureau's decision of 3 may 2004.
mr ferber, i regret to disappoint you, because after a little scrutiny your request has never been received as an official request by any political group. maybe she was missing this little detail. i have never received an official request to put the proposal you have just made on the agenda. as you know, requests must be made one hour before the start of the sitting, in accordance with the rules of procedure. mr. ferber, your request was never formally submitted and therefore never discussed. as regards the second point you have made, i would remind you that the decision on the register of signatures was taken unanimously by the bureau of parliament. of course, it was taken for two reasons, and since there's a certain animation i want to explain them. in recent weeks hundreds of cases of contagion have occurred in parliament, and so there was a need, in order to protect our institution and the functioning of parliament, to take a decision not to crowd parliament. the bureau of parliament has unanimously decided to suspend the registration of signatures temporarily for a few weeks, which can of course be reinstated. but listen to me, or it becomes a dialogue between deaf! i'm telling you what the situation is. this decision has been made for a few weeks. at the next bureau meeting this measure may be corrected. but it was important, for everyone's health and for the efficiency of parliament, to allow the trilogues we had, the institutional commitments we had, very important, not to close parliament, because in recent weeks there have been hundreds of people infected among parliamentarians, collaborators, staff of parliament. just in the last weekend, we had 171 positive cases. a temporary measure was taken, which i know very well is to prevent the possibility of parliament being closed down at this time. but of course we all hope that this measure will be suspended and that things will return to normal. (the order of business is as follows)
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the multiannual financial framework (including own resources), the rule of law conditionality mechanism and the european recovery fund (2020/2858 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all debates this part-session, nor will there be any references to the rules of procedure or blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices (our eplo) in the various member states.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i have to say that today it is with great honour and pride that i am able to address this plenary. yesterday i think that we, all together, made history. the european parliament, the council and the commission negotiating teams reached an unprecedented agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and next generation eu, and on own resources. we started this journey in 2018 with brexit as the biggest challenge for the next eu budget. at that time, of course, nobody could have imagined that the covid-19 pandemic would have sadly taken and threatened the lives of our citizens, and put a strain on our economies, businesses and the internal market. this new context has been very present in our mff negotiations. we are demonstrating that europe is up to the challenge, that the european institutions can live up to their responsibilities in the face of this unparalleled crisis. unprecedented circumstances call for unprecedented responses. that is why, once adopted, the new long-term budget and next generation eu will represent the largest package ever financed by the eu budget, with a total of eur 1.8 trillion. this package will help member states, business, regions and citizens face the pandemic and rebuild a post-covid-19 europe. a new europe, which will be greener, more digital, more resilient, and better fit for the current and forthcoming challenges. these negotiations have been lengthy and difficult. but yet, thanks to the constructive spirit of all institutions, including this parliament, which i thank, we have managed to reach a good deal for our institutions, and most importantly for our citizens. may i say, on a personal note, i want in particular to thank the key representatives of parliament in these negotiations. we all know it was not always easy to get an agreement, to find a common position, but at the end of the day you made it, we made it and i think this is something i would really like to honour, to salute and to acknowledge. it’s a good deal for the parliament, i have to acknowledge, and i am grateful for this, because you have attained a number of achievements including the reinforcement of eur 50 billion for specific programmes compared to the european council agreement of 21 july. this includes flagship programmes of our union and key priorities of this parliament, such as horizon europe, investeu, erasmus+, creative europe, health for europe... you name it. the increase is very substantial for programmes such as rights and values, and as i mentioned already, eu for health, which will, respectively, double and triple compared to the level agreed by member states in july. moreover, 30% of eu funds will be used to fight climate change – the highest share ever and a key priority of this parliament, while the do no harm principle applies to the whole of the eu budget. let me just underline that we must also endeavour to translate this ambition into sectorial legislation. the agreed package also pays attention to biodiversity and gender mainstreaming. the agreement boosts the modernisation of our policies. considerable funding will be allocated to research and innovation, fair climate and digital transition via the just transition fund and the digital europe programme; and to preparedness, recovery and resilience via the recovery and resilience facility, resceu and the new eu4health programme. parliament called several times for flexibility, and this budget will have increased mechanisms to guarantee it has the capacity to address unforeseen needs. the flexibility instrument has been increased further by eur 1 billion. the overall functioning of special instruments is preserved even with a new set of special instruments, which followed the european council agreement. the commission has also committed in a declaration to present a review of the long-term budget by 1 january 2024 and, as appropriate, a proposal for revision. another big achievement by parliament and the union as a whole, which i salute, is a clear roadmap towards new own resources to repay the borrowing for next generation eu. a reform of own resources has not been undertaken since the 1980s and we have also succeeded in this during these difficult times. another collective achievement is our agreement on a rule of law mechanism giving us more power to protect european union taxpayers’ money. this will be accompanied by an integrated and interoperable information and monitoring system to ensure the collection and comparability of information on the final beneficiaries, to avoid and counter conflicts of interest, irregularities, issues of double funding and criminal mis-use of funds. so i count on your support in translating these provisions into the sectorial legislation. with all this good news we must not forget one thing: we still have essential steps to take for the mff and next generation eu to be in place as of 1 january 2021 as agreed, for the annual budget and completing the sectorial instruments. time is extremely short and the covid-19 conditions remain extremely challenging. our citizens and businesses need the eu budget support. we are on the final sprint and once again i thank you for your strong commitment and dedication.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. we are almost at the end of a very long journey which, as the commissioner mentioned, started around 2018. it was a complicated journey because it was in different situations. first, we had to respond to the impending brexit. and remember that our decisions in parliament at the time indicated that we wanted to keep the european union at the same level after the united kingdom's withdrawal and that we did not agree to a reduction in the union's ambition. and we're sticking to it to the end. we believe that brexit cannot change the way the union operates. second, there was the pandemic problem, which changed everything. and thirdly, there have been new developments that have raised the question of the rule of law in the european union or the preservation of the whole democratic system in the union. these new developments mean that the negotiations are proceeding in a completely different way this year than in previous years. this isn't a negotiation where we're trying to find a solution, but a situation where we have to consider all the elements. that's why these conversations were so difficult. and you will also note that we are thinking about preparing a conference on the future of europe, and if you look at these negotiations, the way we are talking about borrowing, ratifying certain acts, giving back loans and creating own income, we have actually already started a discussion on the future of europe. for the first time, the european parliament has spoken out on the future of europe. we believe that the future of europe lies in a stronger europe, and that is why we have fought for certain solutions. the first very important signal to citizens from the outcome of these negotiations is that we believe that cuts in important european policies that affect the future of europe are unacceptable and that we must strengthen these policies. not as much as we'd like, of course, but as much as we can. second, we believe that there are issues that are important to all citizens, such as safety, health, border protection, scientific research. and that's why we pushed them. but we also care about the future of the european budget. how will it be constructed? how will it function after seven years? what will be the consequences of the financial perspective we are now embarking on? hence our very clear emphasis on the budget structure, on the internal mechanisms. please note that we have not breached the political agreement reached at the european council in july this year, but have worked with the council and the european commission to find solutions that will allow the policy to be strengthened without breaking it. we can truly say that everyone has benefited from this arrangement. i would therefore point out that one of the most important elements of our work was the unity of the european parliament, which was very visible in our negotiating group. we worked together despite our differences of opinion and beliefs. i wanted to make this very clear, because it is an important lesson for parliament: only by acting together can we achieve good results. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues in the negotiating team. i have a lot of respect for them because it's a very hard, but very interesting job. i wanted to thank our colleagues, assistants, advisers, the european commission and the commissioner for their cooperation. these were difficult talks, but we seem to be coming out of them satisfied, and the discussion on the future of europe has just begun.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in very difficult times, but little by little we are seeing some hopeful news. we began the week with the news about the vaccine, and i hope that today, too, the european union can offer new hope to so many people who are going through a difficult time. we're asking people to make great sacrifices to protect each other. besides death, sickness, and loneliness, thousands are losing their jobs, their savings, the businesses they worked so hard to start. we see poverty rising and there are huge inequalities in working from home or caring for the elderly and vulnerable. that is why no one would understand if we did not agree here to act as soon as possible, especially when the plan is already on the table. no one outside these walls can understand that the aim is to block aid or that procedural questions remain unanswered. a european proposal is needed now to start talking and responding to people's problems. that's what we're here for. the union does not take action against anyone, nor does the link between the rule of law and the community budget. the new mechanism has been a success for this parliament and therefore for the whole of the european union. because in this house, where the sovereignty of the european people resides, we are working to strengthen democracy and the framework of coexistence that we have given ourselves. because without strong institutions, it is citizens who lose. please, let's move beyond divisions, blackmail, let's think about people. we are already in the second wave of the pandemic and it is difficult to estimate the extent of the economic and social damage. the gdp is forecast to shrink by 8% this year. even with a vaccine in the next few months, we wouldn't return to the previous growth until 2022. and that's why we need an effort over the next year to cushion the blow and the lack of recovery. the union was slow to react in the first wave and that is why we need to take the initiative back now. let's not go and ruin everything now. parliament was the first institution - and i would like to remind you here - to urge a recovery fund which would include debt mutualisation, and the council adopted it in july. it was a historic decision and i would like this plan to be a historic success for the union, for europe. it will be if we can implement the next financial framework as soon as possible and also if we can find new sources of finance. we're on the right track. for the first time, parliament has succeeded in raising the figure adopted by the council: an additional eur 16 billion which will enable us to strengthen public health systems, research, erasmus, culture, development cooperation and, in addition, we have introduced the horizontal principle of equality between men and women in the budget. and, furthermore, a legally binding commitment to own resources. and we have done that, our negotiators have done that, and we have to be very grateful to them because we have remained united and united. you can always count on the loyalty of the socialists and democrats to advance europe. for the sake of the citizens, i trust that the other groups will also maintain the unity of parliament and i hope that no one is thinking right now of using other possibilities to re-introduce austerity measures or macroeconomic conditionality in the recovery plan. there is a clear position of this parliament and that is what we must defend. i ask you to concentrate now on securing a good agreement on own resources, because that is how we can finance the recovery. my political family is doing everything in our power to ensure that we get out of this crisis without leaving anyone behind. they will not see us blackmailing or torpedoing agreements, or pulling out last-minute tricks to take advantage of this situation. we're here to work for the citizens. i hope we all have the same intention.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, today the european union is marking a historic achievement by reforming this budget. it is a historic achievement, not just in terms of the figures, the sums we are putting on the table to respond to this crisis, but also because this budget reform is a step forward, it is the strengthening of two essential and truly european pillars of this budget. i am thinking here first of all of our own resources. this is the first time that the european union is borrowing in external financial markets to finance a crisis, it makes a decision very quickly, and here we are able, we are able to make a decision because these funds that the european union is borrowing will be repaid from new own resources. it is a key pillar of the future european budget, because these own resources will not only bring in those who pollute, because we want a green economy, but also those who have sought so far, big companies in the digital sector or in other areas, to avoid paying eu taxes, even if they were taking advantage of the common market. and secondly, a second essential and strong pillar of this budget is the respect for european values and principles, translated through a mechanism of conditionality of funds, respect for the rule of law. it is the first time we have made a direct link between the european budget, between the money of european taxpayers and the respect for the values and the rule of law that are the foundation of the constitution of this european union. and so when the european institutions work in the same direction, when the european parliament really assumes the power of negotiation and representation of the citizens that it has, we can go a long way in strengthening the european union. moreover, this time too, the european parliament has succeeded in obtaining additional funds to those proposed by the european council to strengthen truly european programmes. and i am not just thinking of the european health programme, which, although it was proposed with great enthusiasm, was left without funding or with very little funding by the council. now that parliament has negotiated, this health program is getting stronger. we have more money for research, which we see is very important these days, we have more money for young people or for strengthening european borders, more money for truly european projects. beyond these things, it is important now that we can also move forward on the negotiations on the recovery and resilience instrument, where the european parliament must also have an important say. i conclude by saying that this time no one will be able to say that the european union is a giant with feet of clay, because the european union and the european parliament have shown strength, flexibility, dynamism and courage in these negotiations, and the european parliament has managed to turn a crisis into an opportunity to strengthen the european union. it is therefore a historic moment for the european union and i hope it will be a new beginning for this union.
mr president, let me start by congratulating the negotiating team of the european parliament: you’ve done a fantastic job, and it cannot be said enough. i note that the council is absent, which is strange because they are the other half of the agreement, but apparently they don’t care. and there is a contrast between the attitude of the council and parliament. colleagues, do you remember the scenes of last summer, the balcony scenes, where they were fighting like cats and dogs over money, where there were political games, where there were vetoes, blackmail, and acrimony? it was the worst of the european union, the image that they showed the citizens. compare that to today. the european parliament has a lot less drama than the council, but we deliver, we deliver on change. we made a qualitative change. we deliver on the rule of law. we deliver on climate. we deliver on recovery from the covid crisis. the european parliament has done its job, as always. we take responsibility. on the rule of law conditionality, i’m very happy that we have the mechanism, but now we also expect the european commission to act on it. and we need to remember that this is about conditionality, it’s not a sanctions mechanism. that means that every single penny that will be spent has to be checked against compliance with the rule of law standards. every single penny! so don’t come here and say ‘oh, we first have to investigate and see if everybody complies’ – we know what the situation is, so act. finally, i think the situation with mr orbán shows that we desperately need to change the system. it cannot be that a single autocrat is holding the entire european union hostage. it is taxpayers’ money that we are talking about, and this should not be for mr orbán to determine. this is for the democratically elected representatives of the european people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing a very broad package here today, including the building fund. we have finalised the votes on this subject this week, on monday, in the committee on budgets and in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and are now ready to negotiate this package with the council. i am glad that we have succeeded in reaching a broad common approach here in the european parliament. i do not want to conceal the fact that there are, of course, a few dark sides to this dossier. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but while the heads of state and government have said that this must also be subject to conditions, there was a large group here, namely the social democrats, who said: no, there must be no conditions. the only thing that remains is the rule of law, but i will come to that in a moment. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, those who see this aid fund as a savings fund, where you can easily withdraw money without having to meet any conditions - that is not our world, and i hope that this can be corrected in the negotiations with the council. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the rule of law and we are pleased that we have adopted a mechanism in plenary that violates its own rules of procedure, violates its own legal bases, violates the statute for members, violates the law on the privileges of members, to name just a few points. we should start to bring the rule of law back into our own house. we can then point the finger at other parliaments.
mr president, we have not let anything go, and we have been right. i congratulate the negotiators of the european parliament. some in the capitals said that parliament should turn its back, shut up and quickly accept the council's agreement, as early as july. they were wrong. today, some, like mr orbán, are again threatening to block this agreement. they're wrong, and we know it's a bluff. we have a budget for economic recovery, of course, but also a budget for citizenship: for our youth with erasmus, for our health with eu for health. a more credible commitment, with a clear timetable for the new own resources. a fairer union which, in the end, gives itself the means to prevent and punish violations of the rule of law. let us repeat it and advocate it proudly: no european funds for those who violate european values. as has been said, the clearest way to show what the rule of law means to us is to remember what happened when there was no rule of law in europe. in europe we can no longer tolerate this. the union was created to guarantee our freedoms. we cannot be european when it comes to receiving billions of euros and be nationalist when it comes to respecting the fundamental rights of article 2 of the treaty. for us, we have to succeed. it is a result obligation for the commission and for the council. you must follow through on all your commitments and we will remind you of them until the last day of this parliament. and there is another priority, mr president, for which we are waiting for the council. keep your promise. let's start the conference on the future of europe. it's a matter of credibility. the citizens are waiting for us.
mr president, the truth is that the council has been trying for months and weeks to get the european parliament to back down. nothing in the july agreement can be touched. well, today we have achieved substantial changes, and they are to be welcomed, and above all the citizens will be grateful: 3.5 billion more for health programmes; 4 billion more for research - although insufficient, it is a significant advance -; 35% more funding for culture. all these are issues which the citizens will be aware of thanks to the action of the european parliament, and that is good news. and a clear timetable for own resources. as valérie hayer said earlier, we have not had a new resource of our own since the customs duties more than fifty years ago. we are going to introduce the financial transaction tax. we're going to introduce the digital tax. all with a clear timetable. we would have liked a more ambitious timetable, closer, but it is certainly a step forward. and a linking mechanism with the rule of law, which is an essential mechanism to ensure that those who use and receive european funds cannot violate fundamental rules. this is obviously not the agreement we wanted as a whole, but it is a very important step forward in view of what was on the council's table and what parliament has achieved. secondly, this parliament, this week too, is going to give its assent to the position on the recovery fund for europe, and it is very important what parliament will say and say this week. we do not want economic macro-conditionality. we do not want to impose reforms of the european semester which have nothing to do with the mechanism. we want ambitious climate targets and no money spent on polluting activities. that is what parliament will say and i hope and wish that the council will listen to us in the negotiations we will open. we are at a very important moment for the european union. we are going to double the amount of resources available from the european institutions. we're going to move from the age of austerity to a more investment-focused age. we have made progress and broken taboos, such as the introduction of eurobonds. i think this is a package which, viewed in historical perspective, is a great step forward.
mr. chairman, i don't know if you can hear me, but i hope you can. i would like to make a point to the presidency: this way of functioning of the european parliament is, to put it mildly, unsuccessful. but i would like to point out that we are once again discussing the multiannual financial framework, which is very similar, mr president, to the plenary sessions of the old soviet union. the biggest one, no doubt, is the lack of any economic logic in this conversation that we're having. the european commission, and by the way, the left majority in this room, it's quite bolshevik, support the economic suicide called the green deal. at this point, we should be thinking about how to save our economies, not betting on utopias, on green utopias, mr president. i know you're smiling, i see you smiling, but this is utopia, and you're going to find out sooner or later. the same can be said of the so-called 'next generation'. mr. chairman, colleagues, either we wake up and face things as they are, or we crash like the soviet union. i see you have white hair, you probably remember the soviet union, you'll see what happens. thank you, sir.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to my colleagues who have been negotiating hard in the last few weeks. we have created additional opportunities for our citizens in many areas of european added value: the horizon europe research programme receives an additional eur 4 billion, the erasmus exchange programme an additional eur 2 billion, the eu4health health programme an additional eur 3 billion, for better protection of the common external border, for the rule of law and european values, for arts and culture an additional eur 1 billion each to name just a few examples. i hope that the european commission, the member states and above all the citizens will have the strength and the ideas to put this money to good use. but have we really received enough funds from the member states to make the european union really fit for the future in terms of the common foreign and security policy, the protection of external borders, research and development and the fight against man-made climate change? i have my doubts. we also have concrete demands for the reconstruction fund, to ensure that the money from the member states is not used to maintain legacy structures but can actually be invested in the common future of our european continent. i would like to make one further remark, which several colleagues have asked me to make: all the national parliaments in europe are in session, and the belgian parliament was here in our chamber just a few days ago. and we members of the european parliament are to stay at home! we all know that parliamentarism is much more than reading opinions, it is much more than electronically participating in meetings, and it is much more than voting and voting. the request is therefore: please ensure, with the utmost hygiene, that members who wish to come to brussels and are able to do so can attend all meetings in accordance with the usual rules. and please respect the rules of procedure, for example today in the plenary, please ensure that those present today can document their presence as usual under rule 156 and we will create legal certainty.
mr president, the first word that i have in mind about this agreement is gratitude – gratitude to the representatives of the council, to the commission, to my colleagues, to our teams, to every one of you who made this possible under extremely difficult circumstances. now this truly means delivering to the people for their safer and better future, and i would like to thank you for that. my second thought goes to the role the european parliament and my group – renew europe – had in defending the rule of law and european values along this process, and we will continue to defend it and keep an eye on the commission and on the council to fulfil their commitments as well, because we are defending the mere essence of the european project, the mere essence of democracy. this is the reason that we are stepping into this house every day, doing our work and we are defending the hope of millions of people along with it. i’m so proud to be part of the political family who is writing history in such a way. my third thought goes to those political leaders who are not so happy with this agreement, who actually stated out loud that they are preparing to veto it, like mr orbán. it is a proven fact that those marching against history written by visionary people usually end up in a very cold, unfriendly and insignificant quarter of such a history, and i would like you to think very, very well whether you want to end up like this or not, because the european project and the world moves forward, with or without you. we are pushing it forward, with or without you. long live europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the escalation of terrorist violence in france and austria reminds us of the grave threat facing the member states of the european union. terrorism generates fear, reinforces political extremism, polarizes societies, creates tensions between social and religious groups, fuels discrimination, hatred, xenophobia and islamophobia. it is not only public security and order that are threatened, but also individual rights, peace and social cohesion. we have been fighting for years against a varied and complex phenomenon, which operates with evolving operational, communication and funding modes, which partly escape the efforts of cooperation, monitoring and counteraction, especially when the fight moves to the online and digital world, which can offer content and tools used for propaganda, training, recruitment and radicalization. in this context, on issues such as the surveillance, detection and removal of online content, if the impact of anti-terrorism legislation on fundamental rights is not assessed in a balanced way, there is a risk that certain authorities will be given dangerous tools to combat arbitrariness and abuse, to the detriment of freedom of expression and access to information. the balance between security needs and fundamental rights is fundamental to democracy and the rule of law: in addition to the challenges of foreign fighters, the strengthening of cooperation in the exchange of information, the control of external borders, the fight against sources of financing and access to arms, terrorism must also be combated with cultural, social and economic instruments, affecting the causes. we cannot accept that we have generations of young people with european citizenship who harbor a sense of alienation and resentment towards the society in which they live, to the point of embracing jihadist violence as an answer to their search for identity, belonging and respect. integration policies, the aim of all education and training, must play a primary role in combating the processes of extremism and violent radicalisation by promoting tolerance, intercultural dialogue, personal development, full social inclusion and participation in political, social and working life.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to the members for a very good debate. let me first say to mr weber that i fully agree that it should be mandatory for all member states to insert terrorist alerts in the schengen information system. as a matter of fact, it is already mandatory, but we have to make sure that everybody also complies. we need to share information better, we need to share better information and we need to remove terrorist content online immediately. to ms garcía pérez, i would say i fully agree that we need to defend the right of free speech, even when we totally disagree with the message, but we will also firmly fight those that seriously threaten these freedoms and these rights. i would say to mr bay, migration is not a threat. today, we have 22 million people in the european union who are third—country nationals. they have come here to marry a european citizen, they have come here to work here, they have come to do research, to study, they have come here because they need international protection. they are part of our society. let me tell you about osama joda, a 23—year—old palestinian immigrant in vienna. he was just five metres away when a police officer got hit in this terrorist attack. he pulled the police officer to safety, he took off his own shirt, he tied it around the officer’s leg to stop the bleeding. you know what? he risked his life despite suffering appalling racism. he was bullied at his job for having the same first name as osama bin laden. a mayor also tried to block his family from buying a house because they were muslims. the aim of the terrorist is to divide our society, is to destroy our unity, is to abolish our values and rights. we will never let them win.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. today, unfortunately, terrorism is once again one of the most important problems that we must resolutely tackle. two beheading attacks in france, carried out with blood-curdling cruelty, and then the shooting of four innocent people in vienna shocked europe. these events are a wake-up call for europe to take radical action to stop the threat of illegal migration to european people and to the european way of life. european left-liberals continue to be unable to acknowledge that the wave of terrorism has something to do with immigration. until they do, the threat of terrorism will continue to grow and we will see more attacks. anti-semitism, racism and various forms of religious intolerance and discrimination not only threaten the security of individuals but can also contribute to creating a climate conducive to the growth of terrorism and crime, which is toxic to communities. education has a vital role to play in dealing with all these conflicts, prejudices and prejudices. teachers thus have a great responsibility to help young people to become tolerant, respectful citizens. hate speech based on prejudice can lead to violence, hate crimes and societies of fear. it is therefore important to curb uncontrolled immigration into the eu in order to preserve european values and principles.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in paris, nice and vienna have shaken europe to its core. the attacks are in fact a direct attack on the fundamental values and principles of the european union, on our democracies and our freedoms. there needs to be a better and more effective exchange of information between member states and increased protection of public spaces is needed to stop such tragic events. finally, the internet is a means by which terrorists incite hatred and gain followers through social networks and message-rich websites. i am glad that the president of the epp group in the european parliament, manfred weber, has taken a strong stand and called for the unblocking of the initiative that allows content on online platforms that promotes such misfortune to be removed within one hour. the security of europeans is not negotiable. we must show all those who want to instill fear and insecurity that we will not kneel before any attack and that we will fight terrorism by all possible means and that we will protect the right to freedom of expression and education at the same time. we must act with courage and determination to stop such demonstrations and take firm action to combat terrorism of all kinds.
mr. president, 2021 is not like any other year. this is not only the first year of a multiannual financial year, it is the first year in the history of european multiannual budgets in which we must not only look to the future, but also repair the unprecedented damage caused by the greatest health crisis of the last century. not only that, but it's also the year that has to put us on the trajectory of the new ecological pact. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. but most importantly, i have called for the money from the next generation eu, which is owed to europe's hard-working farmers, to be made available to them as early as next year. it is not a privilege, but an obligation to ensure that hundreds of millions of europeans have access to healthy and affordable food at all times, no matter what happens. and to ensure that, our farmers need to recover very quickly from the crisis caused by the pandemic, especially since we already require them, starting in 2021, through the green deal, to produce to ever higher standards. and it is also our duty to accelerate innovation and digitisation so that the agri-food sector can meet the standards without suffering further loss. but at the same time, member states must also do everything possible to ensure that the short chain that farm to fork is talking about comes to life and is respected, and that the goods of our producers reach where they belong, in the markets and on the shelves of retailers, without excessive and well-camouflaged taxes.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. we have an ongoing public health crisis, but we also have an ongoing rule of law and democracy crisis that many of us are very aware of. certain restrictions on freedom and rights to protect life and health are of course necessary, but as has been said here, this is not true of all the measures taken. these chronic emergencies, i think you have to be very, very careful with them. the question of the limited role of parliament, the limited freedom of the media and the limited freedom of expression has been raised here, but we have also seen how fundamental human rights have been attacked in the context of the very specific situation in which we live. in poland, women's rights and lgbtq rights have been attacked, and in hungary, transphobic legislation has been pushed forward. men's violence against women has increased. i also have to raise the plight of refugees. i've been to lesbos since moria burned. they put people behind barbed wire to isolate people. it's not dignified. it is a pity that the camps have not been evacuated and that people have not been distributed to other eu countries. it's a shame, you know? if we do not have a plan now, a plan to get out of this situation in terms of the rule of law and democracy, then we will not succeed. and we are consolidating, we are risking consolidating, authoritarian regimes. the commission therefore: you need to put a plan on the table, not refer to reports that are coming.
madam president, in greece, the government of the new democracy - like all governments in every member state of the european union - not only fails to take meaningful action against the pandemic but, in the midst of a capitalist crisis, escalates the attack with new sweeping reversals of labour rights in favour of business groups. the conditions for their imposition are the further criminalization and intensification of the repression of popular workers' struggles, the limitation and the attack on the right to strike, demonstrate and trade union action. the resolution, despite its unfounded concerns, justifies all of this, provided it is, as it says, necessary, proportionate, temporary and based on sound legal grounds, and calls on member states to restrict the right to demonstrate only in cases where, as it says, it is absolutely necessary and justified. i mean, it's a fake. in the name of the pandemic, it also gives the green light to tracking apps and any personal data processing folder. the people, in their organized struggle for their modern needs and in compliance with all protective measures, will defend their rights and will in practice annul reactionary laws and decrees.
i have to say, madam president, wherever in the world freedom, democracy and the rule of law are threatened, we speak out, for example at the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, when the majority of this house also criticized national parliaments and governments in europe for their possibly excessive approach. but what impact does corona have on our work? all the national parliaments are in session, and the belgian parliament was even a guest in our chamber a few weeks ago. what about us? some say that it is best to stay at home! we all know that parliamentarism is much more than simply reading opinions or voting electronically. the exchange of arguments, the heart of parliamentary democracy, does not really work that way. so, let there be no misunderstanding, for the duration of the pandemic, for many members of congress, remote capabilities are better than nothing. but it is not right that freely elected members are denied the usual regular opportunity to attend meetings and to do all that is part of our functioning parliamentary life. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter. the free mandate is not the right of us members of parliament. it is the right of the citizens we represent. and never - even and especially in times of pandemics - should we take away people's democratic rights and restrict the free mandate. this must be corrected as soon as possible, otherwise our house and democracy in europe will suffer further damage.
madam president! the covid-19 pandemic has left its mark on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in all member states. the problem arises when influence in some countries becomes an established, hard-to-remove mark. i'm sure each of us has our own opinions, including disagreements about the actions of the government, but it's dangerous when disagreements are used as an excuse to change the balance of power in the long run. the resolution makes a very clear case for measures that dangerously undermine the fundamental systems of the state, from restrictions on freedom of movement, expression and information, to freedom of religion, to the right to family life, education and work. all this and more has been accepted by the governments of the union, the states, under the pretext that it saves people's lives. - do you? how many lives did hungary save when hungarian president orban was given the power to rule by decree completely bypassing parliament during a state of emergency? how many lives were saved when the slovenian government of john janša, in the first wave, restricted and disabled the activities of many ngos? how many lives will it save, for example, with new fines for protesters of up to eur 10,000 for gathering in public places, or the desire to give the army additional powers to protect the external border? totally absurd decisions that have nothing to do with fighting the virus and saving lives. it is therefore a sincere call to member states to act solely in the interests of the people and to adopt measures that are necessary, proportionate and temporary. consultation and cooperation with the medical profession, civil society and the political opposition is key. only by working together can we succeed, the sooner we realize this, the sooner we will overcome this crisis. i wish you all good health and all good things!
madam president, the fight against the virus is not easy at all, in many european countries we see protests, dissatisfaction with restrictions, violent demonstrations. people are tired. in this context, the parliament's resolution is important because it covers a very broad spectrum of rights and includes guidelines explaining what a responsible state's behaviour in the face of the pandemic should mean. but the responsibility of governments, in the difficult context in which we live, also means bold action to protect the right to life of citizens, and the measures taken must be legal, necessary and proportionate. in romania, too, there were problems, there were attempts at censorship, the government communicated insufficiently and limited the right to information. in many places in europe, we have seen how press freedom is threatened by arbitrary government intervention or funding that undermines the independence of journalists. but the right to education has also been seriously affected as a result of the closure of schools. truly responsible leaders today struggle to maintain the right balance between society's need for health security and real respect for human rights in times of crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. only together can we overcome this crisis, governments and people. and this can be done with respect for fundamental rights which are part of the european dna.
rapporteur. – madam president, at union level we had had three stand-alone health programmes before the proposal in 2018 to have it incorporated in the 4th health programme under the esf+ as a strand, in times where at least 70% of our population ask for and expect more and bolder eu intervention on health. myself, at the time i was expressing concerns at the budgetary dilution and asked for the eu health programme to be an independent instrument and a central keystone of eu policy. the covid-19 crisis has clearly proven the european union’s need for well-defined and adequately financed policy instruments. moreover, with the rising expectation from our citizens, from the union and from us, the policymakers, in the field of health – in particular now, given the current crisis – i am proud to witness that commissioner ursula von der leyen, and especially commissioner kyriakides, have delivered both on citizens’ expectations and on addressing the challenges we are facing. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, commissioner, in the plenary of this house. the eu4health programme will stand as the 4th health programme of the union as a separate instrument for the 2021-2027 period. as a direct consequence of covid-19, a stand-alone programme was proposed aimed at strengthening eu health systems and health care with an initial robust budget of eur 9.4 billion. compared to the 3rd programme for health, the eu4health programme will deliver on many more actions to support member states in the field of health and complement their efforts in reforming their health systems to become more resilient. as the rapporteur, when drafting the initial report, i emphasised the importance of the fact that the eu4health programme is more than just a response to the covid-19 crisis and it should deliver not only on short-term crisis management, but also on long-term objectives in ensuring the development of strong and resilient health systems in the member states, and should address long-term challenges such as cancer, the burden of chronic diseases, and of course, mental health and ageing, vaccine hesitancy and equal access during medicine shortages. one of the top priorities i had as rapporter was cancer and the eu4 health programme will strengthen the european union’s fight against cancer with concrete actions to address the lack of screening, early diagnosis and access to treatment and care and in synergy with the europe’s beating cancer plan. another priority for us, the european parliament team working on this file, was to digitalise health care, in particular through the creation and application of european e—health records and support for the creation and use of the future european health data space platform. the programme will not only deliver on fighting cancer, but also on digitalisation and forthcoming worrying realities – future pandemics and health threats – by working in synergy with other programmes, instruments and funds like the europe’s beating cancer plan, horizon europe, and especially the mission for cancer, the digital agenda and the rrf (recovery and resilience fund). after the vote in committee, we clearly showed that the european parliament stands for improving the health of our citizens by health promotion and a person-centred approach to address communicable and non-communicable diseases, with a focus on chronic diseases, early screening, prevention, future development of european reference networks, addressing vaccine hesitancy, shortage of medicines and health inequalities. therefore, i am looking forward to the vote today in the plenary and i expect to have a clear and strong mandate to start the negotiations. regarding the budget, the envelope was cut by eur 1.7 billion in july and in the committee we restored the amount completely to show that we aim for an increase, and with this commitment we are here today in the plenary. an agreement was reached this week with a major increase up to eur 5.1 billion for health compared to the cut in july, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank my party, the ppe, and to thank the european parliament negotiating team for their support. this increase is a triumph for all of us. compared with the 3rd health programme, we have a robust budget that will come in support of member states. this budget will be able to complement member states’ efforts and national programmes, and in synergy with other instruments will deliver on improving the wellbeing of our citizens by addressing health inequalities, strengthening health care systems, support for digitalisation of health care through the european e-health record and the european health data space. and of course, what was extremely important and i mentioned earlier, last but not least, really fight cancer. i’d like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, for their work. it was an extraordinary team, very dedicated and i’m really grateful, colleagues, for your support and collaboration. we succeeded on a fast-track to deliver what will be the most ambitious and well-funded health programme of the union to date. i’m really grateful and i’m grateful to the commission for all their efforts and the good cooperation. i’m looking forward to a successful vote tomorrow and a very interesting debate today, and this will be a starting point for what will be a european union for health, with real achievements, in order to respond to european citizens’ expectations.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is indeed a great pleasure to join you to discuss the eu4health programme. this programme is the key financial tool to help protect our citizens’ health, to fight major public threats like covid-19, and of course to reinforce europe’s health systems. the commission greatly appreciates the efforts that have gone into preparing today’s draft report. in particular, however, i would like to thank the rapporteur cristian buşoi and the shadow rapporteurs and of course mep ştefănuță, as budget committee rapporteur. these are very difficult times for our citizens, for businesses, for our member states, for our european health care systems. the worldwide surge of cases is extremely worrying. over eight million cases have been confirmed in the eu alone. hospital admissions are increasing every day. pandemic related health issues are growing. too many people have lost their loved ones. too many are suffering and every day when we hear numbers these numbers are about people. they are about families, they are about life stories. in this context i am delighted that in the trilogues for the next generation eu, and our future mff, this essential programme for the health of our citizens has emerged stronger and reinforced to eur 5.1 billion. i know that this house has played a key role in this effort and i want to thank everyone, especially cristian buşoi in particular, for sharing our vision and for fighting our corner on this. i think actually i have been losing my voice over the last week from, at the beginning, speaking with everyone to thank them for this effort and yesterday from the excitement of hearing the news. this programme will be a fundamental element of our work towards building a genuine and strong european health union by strengthening our crisis preparedness and management and the resilience of our health systems. covid has shown us the importance of working together to reinforce our crisis readiness actions. this implies sufficient funding at eu level and building synergies with other instruments such as resceu for stockpiling products needed for crisis. we also need to take forward the digital transformation of the health sector to build on the positive momentum and more generally, we need to strengthen the eu’s ability to support and complement member states’ programmes and actions. the public needs to hear a clear message that public health is a priority area for europe’s recovery. at the beginning of this crisis citizens across europe were all saying, ‘where is the eu? we need more eu in public health’ and i believe that together, parliament and the commission, we have shown that we have been listening. we have been listening that targeted investment in crisis preparedness and stronger health systems are essential for the future. we are mobilising all possible resources to strengthen our defences, including crucially funding, which in many cases is a determinant of feasibility. i am glad that we agree on the basic rationale and policy objectives of the future eu4health programme. the amendments proposed take into account the covid-19 challenges and other public health needs. the commission notes parliament’s wish for a more inclusive governance framework and we will be doing this. this is clearly an area that we will be discussing, though we should avoid adding anything to the governance, and i stress this, that would be overly burdensome or introduce mechanisms that would prevent efficient preparation and implementation of our programme. we have built a long tradition of consulting extensively with stakeholders and we place a high value on the input received. i am personally committed to maintaining this approach during the preparatory phase of the work plans as well as their implementation. we are partners in this. the gravity of the current health crisis calls for swift conclusion of the negotiations. it calls for a programme that complements the other important strands of eu action to strengthen the resilience of our health systems and our preparedness and response capacity to cross-border health threats. i am convinced that an agreement in the first reading is both possible and is absolutely necessary. we will do our utmost to facilitate negotiations between co-legislators. what is now required is close cooperation and the swift agreement between parliament and the council to ensure eu4health can deliver its full potential. i fully count on your support to take this forward, and what i would like to share with you in ending is that when we put this programme forward, and we called it eu4health, i felt from that moment on that we had true partners within this institution and having achieved the proposed increase of the budget, i now know that we’re going to be partners hand in hand with this because this is what citizens expect from us and this is what we need to deliver.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on budgets. madam president, i am a little bit nervous because i listened to commissioner kyriakides' speech and because everyone in this room right now has people, friends, relatives who are in hospitals, affected by the pandemic that we are in, unfortunately. well, speaking for my colleagues in the budget, i'm thrilled that we've achieved something fantastic: when president ursula von der leyen presented us with the green deal, she said that this is our time to put a man on the moon, 'our man to the moon moment', and when you, ms. kyriakides, presented us with eu4health, we hoped the same thing, that this is a time to put a man on the moon. i had hoped that seeing that initial budget of almost 10 billion, i was very disappointed when it was reduced to 1.7 by the council. now i'm proud of everyone who participated and made it to at least 5.1 billion. this shows that we in brussels are really taking seriously the health threats facing this continent and the aggressive human interaction with nature and climate change that affects us. the most important lesson we've learned from this crisis is that when we invest in science, in research, we win, we make the impossible possible. and here we are, less than a year later, we have a vaccine. man on the moon wasn't sent with speeches, with big words, man on the moon was sent with 20 billion dollars invested in nine years in the apollo program. speeches don't build hospitals, speeches don't provide protective gear to doctors, speeches don't save people, speeches need to be backed up by big budgets. that is why i look to you with confidence, mrs kyriakides, and invite you to make history together for european health.
in writing. – reaching our ambitious paris agreement goals is an objective shared by the majority in the ep. to make the eu green deal a success, we must acknowledge that not every member state starts from the same point or has the same resources to face the transition challenges. as the commission stated repeatedly and it is important to remind our citizens across the eu: the pledge to leave no one behind is central to the european green deal. the just transition mechanism and fund seek to address the transition in vulnerable coal and carbon-intensive regions. the recovery and resilience facility financed from the eur 750 billion next generation eu will allow member states to boost investments that are essential for a sustainable recovery in a fair manner. the modernisation fund will provide over the next 10 years ample support to the ten lower-income member states, helping them modernise their energy systems and improve energy efficiency. this resolution states that ‘the principle of a just transition should be mainstreamed throughout the green deal, and the jtf should in particular focus on the regions most heavily dependent on fossil fuels’. keeping this in mind, i am sure each member states will do its utmost to reach the transition goals.
in writing. the investment plan for a sustainable europe will underpin the european green deal and the transition to a more sustainable and resilient economy. under this plan, the european union must mobilise €1 trillion of public and private investment by 2030. in view of the negative economic outlook generated by the covid-19 crisis, i would stress that the union's success in meeting the climate neutrality objective will depend on the adequacy of funding for member states, taking into account different starting points. it is of the utmost importance to ensure the necessary funding for the most vulnerable regions in the eu, both through the just transition fund (jtf), whose budget has been deeply reduced, and through the two additional pillars of the just transition mechanism. i welcome the fact that the modernisation fund is designed to support investments to improve energy efficiency in the ten lower income member states, as well as the efforts of the european investment bank (eib) to devote 50% of its operations to climate action. in this way, i invite the european investment bank to pay particular attention to the sectors and regions most affected by the transition.
before proceeding with the debate, i shall now open the voting on today's motion. we shall now proceed to the votes on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from 6.30 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as that used at the last part-session. the vote on the appointment of julia laffranque to the committee established by article 255 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and on the appointment of frank elderson as a member of the executive board of the european central bank will be taken by secret ballot. the members will then be able to vote in the usual way; however, the card they receive for signature will not indicate the vote cast but only their participation in the vote. all other votes will be by roll-call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, only voting statements of a maximum length of 400 words will be accepted. i therefore declare the votes open. i remind my colleagues that the vote will be open until 19.45 today. the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow at 8.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the continuation of the debate on the report by mr david cormand, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on 'towards a more sustainable single market for businesses and consumers' (2020/2021 (ini) (a9-0209/2020)).
mr president, we all voted for the european green deal, we all want a healthier, cleaner environment and we all want to get to a zero-carbon economy as soon as possible. and that's why it's absolutely necessary to have a clear strategy and rules to help us get to that green economy that we all want. in my view, innovation is the main factor that will help us achieve our goals much faster and better than the constraints imposed on consumers, economic agents, public authorities. we need innovative products that are environmentally friendly from the first phase, from design, to the final phase. and for that, we need to collaborate with economic agents, with researchers, with investors, with consumers. in my view, we need to improve products, innovate, encourage and incentivise the purchase of state-of-the-art, green products, which pollute much less and can be recycled or reused in their entirety. equally important is education, the dissemination of information, both about the ecological emergency we are living in and about how each of us can contribute to a cleaner planet. it is important that these two priorities - innovation and education - are united at the level of the european single market. it is important that the rules and standards for green innovative products and services are uniform so that all european consumers can benefit from them, regardless of their country or region. this report, in my view, is based on certain wrong pillars. we can talk about a second-hand revolution, we can talk about a revolution of the durable product, but that pollutes much more than ten new products, we can talk about an economy where the state or the european union decides the production and consumption patterns. but as we have seen in romania, in my country, in so many years of communism and socialism with five-year plans, this attitude will only bring resistance to change. if we want the union and the european single market to be attractive to investors, we need to work with them, not try to impose as many burdensome conditions as possible.
mr. chairman, for years, consumers have been finding anomalies that need to be corrected. we must strive to create a market where consumers can buy safe and affordable products and services without fear and, above all, make informed decisions. consumers are the focus of many controversies today and it is imperative that they are afforded the protection they need. on the other hand, it is necessary to find a way to allow producers, who operate in a responsible and sustainable way, to take advantage of the market, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which we must relieve and not impose additional burdens on. it is also important to mention the promotion and harmonization of european standards that will ensure the sustainability and quality of all products. this is especially true in today's global economy, where we need to protect business owners. this would achieve a double role for the standard, through consumer protection but also protection for the economic operator. it is certainly necessary to promote the reuse of products and repairs and to try to suppress, of course, as far as possible, practices that shorten the life of products available on the market. it is crucial to ensure consumers' so-called right to repair by making repairs more cost-effective and attractive. one way is to improve access to repair and maintenance information. in this context, i would like to mention the introduction of the single charger - it was an important step forward in reducing electronic waste and preserving the environment. in the times ahead, we must turn to more sustainable systems that will make the future easier for our citizens. the single market has, in fact, made europe attractive for business and life. it must be harnessed to its full potential, but also adapted, of course, to change. but we need to find a balance between economy and life. i think we're on the right track. we're never going to propose something that's perfect, but in any case, we have to find something that's good for the economy, but also for our citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you very much. first of all, let me thank all those who have spoken today in a debate which i believe is very important to the various european institutions. i can say that, in addition to the report we are discussing today, this is also work which we shall be discussing in a few minutes in connection with the consumer agenda which the commission has just adopted. as you know, the commission is committed to taking strong action to combat climate change and to achieving ambitious environmental objectives in a comprehensive approach. the commission has also made clear commitments to mainstream sustainability in the next multiannual financial framework. once the budget negotiations are completed, we will be able to mobilise european funding to support sustainable initiatives. we must organize and support the change in the behaviour of both businesses and consumers. for companies, as you know, the initiative on sustainable governance that the commission will present next year will play an important role, but we will also do our utmost to give consumers a better ability to choose sustainable products, in particular, as your report indicates, through credible and readable information on sustainability, through a right to redress, through action against planned obsolescence or through the introduction of sustainability criteria in public procurement, to name a few examples. we will do so to strengthen the internal market and support employment, taking into account, of course, the particular challenges facing small and medium-sized enterprises. the administrative burden should be avoided. we will also do this by developing measures to ensure the safety of products, including those from third countries. we have started developing an action plan with china to strengthen the security of products sold online, and this will continue. so i thank you again for your long-standing attention to consumer protection, and i would say above all to the strengthening of consumer rights and the implementation of consumer rights. i look forward to continuing our collaboration towards a more sustainable european internal market. as you know, consumer protection is one of the most visible areas for european citizens, since it is now more than 50 years since the european union started this policy in favour of consumer protection and rights.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 24 november 2020 and the final vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2020. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the transition to a sustainable and sustainable economy is undoubtedly important. a sustainable single market strategy must be fair and balanced and ensure that our businesses have a competitive advantage in a global context. unfortunately, this report does not propose liberal and market-based solutions to achieve sustainability, but contains new binding and mandatory requirements that go too far and lead to over-regulation. i am not in favour of putting an increased administrative and financial burden on our producers and businesses during a crisis. in many aspects of this report, we have to ask the question -- what is the problem that we're solving?
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on 'towards a new agenda for consumers beyond 2020' (2020/2874 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states for the benefit of the honourable members.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you again for inviting me to present to you the new consumer agenda published by the commission on 13 november. this agenda includes many suggestions from the european parliament, whether in reports or in other debates in parliament. for example, on issues such as the sustainability of the internal market, which we have just discussed, or product safety, which will also be on your agenda this week. i think it is important that we can continue to work together on these issues. europe is known for its high level of consumer protection. with the new agenda, we want to uphold this european achievement. the agenda will allow us to ensure that european consumers benefit from the single market, also in a crisis period like the current pandemic. the agenda sets out a political vision and longer-term priorities, aiming to build trust so that consumers can be key actors for the green and digital transitions and also be key to drive the economic recovery out of the covid-19 crisis. the agenda proposes 22 concrete actions. this to address both the immediate challenges of the covid-19 pandemic, as well as longer-term priorities. one of our long-term priorities is consumer protection in the green and digital transitions. the approach set out in the new agenda will contribute to the implementation of the circular economy action plan and the digital strategy, including through more sustainable and safer products and services. the new agenda includes actions to improve information on the environmental characteristics of products, such as their life span, environmental impact and repairability. we will better protect consumers against practices such as eco-laundering, premature obsolescence or the sale of unsustainable products. we will also ensure that the need for a strong legal framework on artificial intelligence can be addressed, in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection and fundamental rights online. consumers should be able to shop online with the same security and confidence as they do in the physical world. the digital transition also has an impact on the consumer credit market. in particular, there are new lenders and new ways of assessing consumers' creditworthiness based on their online data. in addition to environmental and digital transitions, the new consumer agenda addresses three other priorities: effective enforcement of legislation and effective redress, consumer awareness raising taking into account the specific needs of different groups and strengthening international cooperation. we must ensure that european citizens can enforce their rights as consumers, regardless of their social or economic situation. empowering consumers in the green and digital transition must be inclusive. a high level of consumer protection cannot be a privilege only available to some, for example those with access to online tools and digital skills. let me conclude with a few words on how we want to implement this new policy vision. given the nature and global dimension of the challenges we aim to address, the agenda seeks to foster consumer policy priorities that could be pursued by the eu and its member states. the agenda also suggests a broad partnership, including consumer organisations, but also businesses and all stakeholders, including the european parliament. thank you again for your attention tonight about consumer rights and consumer protection and i'm now looking forward to hearing your remarks and possible questions or proposals.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your speech and for the clarity with which you have presented the arguments in favour of strong consumer protection at european level. i would like to add, commissioner, that the level of consumer protection in europe is high, and we should not say something else, lest we create misunderstandings. the level of protection is very high, but that doesn't mean that consumers like ourselves haven't had experiences where the protection was not right. therefore, the epp group wants to work on adapting consumer protection in those areas where it is not yet right. let me conclude, first, that it is very often not the right level of protection in areas where we do not have full harmonisation, so your task, from our point of view, is first and foremost to fight for full harmonisation, so that we can offer european consumers wherever they live, wherever they buy, whatever they want to do the unique and common protection that they deserve. unfortunately, here, we face a lot of resistance, and i kindly remind you that we believe that the best tool and the best project where we have successfully implemented this is the passenger rights directive, where every flight passenger arriving at the airport can see their rights and can implement them. therefore, it has taken us by surprise and by deception, that it was not possible in this crisis to offer all citizens who were flying in the corona crisis in the first half of the year the same level of reimbursement. some have been given a voucher, others have been given their money back and this, in the european union, in the 21st century is not what consumers deserve. we discussed that when we were meeting in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. that is one important element. we need full harmonisation in consumer protection to make sure that we can move on to the 21st century all together in europe. the second point i want to make is that we believe that consumer protection can be improved in some areas, but we do not believe that the new concept of vulnerable consumers is a valid concept, because there is no general definition of vulnerability. you can become a consumer in vulnerability if you break your leg, but if you haven't, you are not vulnerable, so we have to adapt this concept with a lot of calm and prudence so as not to create further bureaucracy. one element where we have, in the past, had quite a difficult path with parliament was the consumer credit directive. if there is something to improve, the epp is open and ready to work on it, but please, let us make sure, commissioner, that we do not add further bureaucracy to a directive which is already quite difficult to apply in the interests of consumers, because sometimes they would more easily be getting a credit and that is something that we should not block.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. a big thank you to commissioner reynders for a good presentation. but let me start by going back more than 14 years. i was a newly elected member of the european parliament. amazon was just in its infancy, and facebook had just been created. when we talked about consumer policy, we talked about physical products and how we made them safer. but since then, a lot has happened. today, online marketplaces are competing with traditional physical stores. more and more of our production is being taken over by robots and other technologies. and on top of that, the green transition is dominating a lot of the consumer debate today. the development has been rapid, and therefore it is also time that we develop and adapt our consumer rights from the world of yesterday to the world of tomorrow. that is why i am very pleased that the commission is presenting a draft for a new consumer agenda. a move which not only aims to update but also to close the loopholes in our consumer protection rules. i am very pleased with what has been presented and i really think it is commendable. it is one of the most ambitious things i have seen in my many years as a member of the european parliament, but of course there are also deadlines. there are also things that can be done better, and i will get to that in a moment. but let me start by mentioning two things that i think are very good: i am glad that the commission is working to improve consumer safety on digital platforms. i think there is no doubt that what is illegal offline must also be illegal online. i hope we shall see this not only as a principle but also as a concrete expression in legislation. secondly, i think it is very good that the eu is going to make consumers more active in the green transition, but we have just discussed this and i will not go into it further. like i said, the trees don't grow into the sky. in some areas we should go further than the commission proposes. i do not think, for example, that it is enough for information to stand alone. it must be accompanied by clear rules and clear consumer rights. take for example the idea of a green consumption pledge! yes, it is important that we consumers know about the carbon footprint of companies when we pull products off the shelves, but it cannot stand alone. we must also have a right for consumers, a right to have their products repaired. and then, incidentally, we must also look at how we can ensure that market surveillance is improved. perhaps there is a need to have control of the control that is taking place. i also think it is very important to emphasize that members of the european parliament, for example, can also be much more clearly involved in the whole of consumer policy. the pace of development has been rapid over the last 14 years and will only accelerate in the future. we must therefore also be efficient and flexible in our legislation so that we can ensure green and digital farming with consumers at the centre and not at their expense. so it is not about making more laws for the sake of making laws, but about ensuring through legislation clear climate targets and a level playing field for the benefit of both businesses and consumers. i very much look forward to working with the commission and with the european parliament on this. i am sure that we can then have some new rules which are in the interests of consumers and which are also in the interests of the internal market.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, my group welcomes the new consumer agenda and the many proposals and revisions foreseen in it. as i have little time, let me focus on four of them. first, package travel. i encourage the commission to look to the danish example of their answer to the crisis, where the guarantee fund ensured that consumers were reimbursed within the normal delay, while giving a lifeline to travel companies to continue to have liquid assets and not go under. such temporary guarantee loans seemed to work well for both consumers and businesses alike. but, whatever the final decision is, we cannot have the situation of the last six months, where consumers were used as free bank loans by travel companies. this is not acceptable. second, on general product safety and product liability, the key here is a tweaking of the law, not a compete redrafting of it. much of the legal framework is still working and is working well. we cannot let fear of the future and technological developments lead to new rules that stop or slow down innovation. risk is not in itself negative. all actions involve risk. if we had banned all products with an element of risk in the past, we would not have elevators in buildings, planes in the air or cars on the road. all innovations include some risk, which we should be willing to take. third, on geo—blocking, the deadline for the first review expired on 23 march, and here we are in november. i hope the delay will have given you time to draft the amendment to include copyrighted goods and services, like e-books, videos and music, within its scope. our citizens should be allowed to buy digital goods across borders. it is time to say ‘enough is enough’ to national fragmented markets. lastly, we still have the problem of dual product quality in europe. this must be addressed and included in the guidance from the commission on unfair commercial practices. we should go further to end this practice once and for all in the single market. so, commissioner, we have put a lot on your plate. you can count on the support of my group. we just have to make sure that the proposals are balanced and the single market is not fragmented, but better completed.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, on 13 november the european commission published its new consumer agenda, a strategy for recovery and post-crisis recovery. it is full of good intentions, but you will allow me to greet it with skepticism, because i had seen the same good intentions in the industrial strategy of the european union, before discovering that in fact nothing had changed in substance. it contains two main axes, one ecological, the other digital. i shall concentrate on the digital part, for which the european commission intends to update its legislation. its stated aims are clear: to combat the collection and use of behavioural data, to combat manipulation (false advertising, manipulated reviews, differentiated ads according to profiles), to strengthen the monitoring of online trade to identify defective products, to improve the marking and traceability of products and finally to guide the digital switchover of financial services and thus prevent citizens from being bought by debt. all these objectives can only be approved a priori, but they pose a double problem of substance. the first is that the principle of globalisation is contrary to these noble aims. the european commission's text also acknowledges that production and value chains are increasingly globalised and interconnected, but it does not intend to change this. take china, for example, which is responsible for over 60% of the defective products entering the domestic market today. globalization encourages free trade with china. what will prevent china from providing inferior or even counterfeit products at low prices to the european public on its own e-commerce sites and for them to buy them? these are chinese websites governed by chinese law. what european legislation will change that? the solution advocated by the european commission, namely the development of pseudo action plans with third countries, including china, is a market of dupes. we have already tried this with the united states when it comes to the protection of personal data and we have let that country plunder it by pretending to look the other way. only regulation and challenging of ultra-globalism can bring a lasting solution by setting up, for example, customs barriers, which i find are totally absent from the project. the second problem is that our regulations will hamper the development of european technology. i take the example of artificial intelligence: by processing and analysing large amounts of data, it makes it possible, for example, to predict reactions in the event of a crisis, typically the health crisis we are currently experiencing. by prohibiting ourselves from exploiting this kind of data, we will deprive our companies of valuable advances in this area. our international competitors have no such scruples, they will develop these technologies on their own population and then apply them in other areas, including offensive ones, for example by specifying the most effective way to cause mass panic by attacking the organization of certain networks in a country. we won't have any means of responding. the only solution is to offer our data only to strictly regulated european companies and to close it to third parties. this implies an assumed protectionism in breach of the idea of equal access to the public, the european commission, of course, does not envisage this solution. but we'll have to consider it. these fundamental problems will confront us sooner or later and will require solutions. so, ladies and gentlemen, as i have said many times and will say again, we lack the political will to really carry out the necessary reforms. i urge you all to follow my example in this line of thinking and in this direction.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the european commission has recently introduced a new consumer programme. the european commission believes that this programme will empower european consumers and enable them to play an active role in the green and digital transformation. before i get to the more positive aspects of this programme, i would like to express my regret that this programme does not represent any breakthrough in the fight against dual quality. the fact remains that the unfair commercial practices directive, which was intended to finally ban double quality not only in food but also in other goods, is rendered unusable and effectively legalised by the intransigence of some member states of the european union, especially germany and austria, and by the intervention of the european commission by the supervisory authorities in a number of member states. you, commissioner reynders, said: 'european consumers are at the heart of global change. there are many things that can affect their actions. consumers must be able to make sustainable choices and have the certainty that their rights will be protected in all circumstances. i ask you, commissioner, does this also apply to the dual quality of foodstuffs? if the european commission wants to defend the rights of all consumers, how can it accept the fact that different approaches to the quality of the products sold are applied within the single market area? so is the change now that if consumers say they don't want double standards, it will be added to the list of unfair business practices as we demand? or the european commission is advising consumers to go to other countries to buy their goods, which would mean for the czechs, for example, to attack german shops during a pandemic. is that your goal? just to be clear, i greatly appreciate much of what the new consumer program contains. i believe that in many ways this is a step in the right direction and, for example, the priority of effective enforcement of consumer rights is very important to me. i have only one problem with the european commission's inability to be consistent in its actions and its frequent use of a half-hearted approach, which i regret very much, particularly in the case of consumer protection, and which i consider to be a fundamental mistake. yes, let us strengthen consumer rights, involve more consumer organisations, fight against premature obsolescence of products, unfair online practices, but let us also not forget that we have a debt, a huge debt, to the citizens of the european union from central and eastern europe. you didn't stop the double standards and i didn't stop you, commissioner, please, let's start doing something. that's the thing that's been bothering consumers here.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the european commission has come up with this agenda, because we need to develop the european consumer protection theme, and it is also an economic theme, because consumer spending in our union accounts for up to 54% of european gdp. consumer protection takes on new dimensions in the digital economy. it's no longer just about replacing defective goods, substandard service, or refunds. we're increasingly confronted with sophisticated online fraud, identity theft, and the new phenomenon of so-called cryptocurrencies. these are phenomena that individual countries can no longer cope with on their own. any reform of european consumer protection policy must take account of them. and we need to create effective mechanisms to protect our citizens from them. this topic is also closely linked to the development of ai technologies. we must always bear in mind that the ultimate decision-maker here is the human being. not only in the process of using products and services with elements of artificial intelligence, but also in the overall end-to-end chain with the support of artificial intelligence. a particular topic that i would like to highlight and that deserves more attention is the issue of child protection online. they are particularly exposed to deceptive or aggressive business practices and, often, harassment. i believe that a number of measures need to be taken to protect children, such as: first, to promote media literacy, the development of critical thinking and the development of the analytical skills needed to distinguish between objective facts and subjective opinions. second, initiate the establishment of effective age verification and use assurance systems to ensure that children are protected from digital products, services and content and commercial exploitation. third, to establish an online mechanism to report illegal and inappropriate content on the internet, including a rapid intervention system, and to achieve blocking of access to web content. at the same time, it is necessary to involve internet service providers, including social networks, to play an active role in preventing and removing illegal content. i think we need union principles for safer social networks and an extension of the use of standard privacy settings for children registering on social networks to increase the safety of minors. we also need a europe-wide code of conduct on the sale of video games to minors. i believe that these measures will help to better protect children across the online space and contribute to a safer life for all of us.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, it has been more than ten months since we have been living through difficult times for everyone. the pandemic has made things not work the way we used to: we work online, we shop online, we even attend cultural events online, we consult medical information online. the need to adapt quickly to this way of life has brought to light many of the problems of the online environment. that is why i am pleased to see that the regulation of consumer rights relating to this environment is among the priorities put forward by the commission. it will certainly be one of the most difficult areas to regulate, especially if we consider that the digital market is not limited to the european union. relations between buyers and sellers or producers are already going beyond traditional national or european cooperation, and we will have to enter the field of international trade relations. we will also have to address the issue of those who cannot be consumers because they lack access to this market due to a lack of infrastructure, technical equipment or the knowledge to navigate such a complex environment. another particularly important point will be the swift implementation of european legislation in the member states and the effective support to the supervisory authorities to ensure that consumer protection regulations are applied. every consumer in the european union has the same rights in theory, but we are well aware that there are major differences in both the transposition of legislation and its application and market surveillance. this is why we will need to find specific interoperable digital tools that work across the european single market. we will only be able to ensure the same rights for all european consumers if we find ways of ensuring that all member states have both the knowledge and the technical equipment and the necessary capacity to check and test potentially dangerous products circulating on the european common market. we will have to be open in our approach, innovative, in order to be able to make the best use of new digital technologies, of interoperable databases that can be the key to ensuring the rights of all european consumers, regardless of the region in which they are located or the way in which they buy their products.
in writing. – this topic is of great importance to me; as both a citizens’ and a former career journalist, i am fully aware of the fundamental importance of media freedom and pluralism for our democracies. it is never too much to remind this to our young generations, as their future depends on it. professional independent journalism requires very hard work facing daily difficulties of all sorts from lack of resources to intimidations or pressures, and the covid crisis added more hardships and even abuses from local authorities during the covid-19 crisis. this resolution recognises the irreplaceable role of professional journalists and stresses that it is essential to ensure and maintain their independence from political interference, no matter the times – or the crisis – we live in. the resolution reminds the sacrifices of journalists such as murders of daphne caruana galizia in malta and ján kuciak and his fiancée martina kušnírová in slovakia due to their investigative work to unveil corruption and other crimes. calling our member states to protect a vibrant, independent, pluralist and free media sector is of crucial importance and it is something we should all cherish and fight for. i want to highlight the fundamental role of investigative journalism in acting as a watchdog in a democratic society.
mr president, in this report we have a thorough analysis of the recent european parliament elections, and congratulations to the rapporteur for that. i can only regret that in an otherwise very comprehensive text we spent so much political effort trying to revive an idea that this house voted down – and with good reason – and i am speaking about the transnational lists. parliament is often perceived as a political entity that is distant from the everyday concerns of citizens. every second colleague quoted already that in the last european parliament elections turnout was the highest since 1994 and it was 8 per cent up compared to 2014, so bringing parliament even closer to citizens works already. making citizens vote for people they do not know, who do not know them, do not understand their culture, do not speak their language, will certainly not represent an impetus for further steps in that direction. in addition, elections without a local constituency would not ensure accountability to voters. it would weaken the link between members and their electorate and would also favour large member states and large parties. elections for parliament should be made more european, focusing not on electoral engineering and lists, but on proposing truly european answers to european questions, rather than national priorities. on the other hand, i am very disappointed that the final report did not address vital issues such as electoral thresholds. colleagues already mentioned the high threshold can be an effective barrier for smaller groups such as parties representing national minorities running in single national constituencies. the report would have been an excellent opportunity to point out various examples of good practices in this regard, such as those in place in italy or belgium, where special thresholds apply for parties or regions recognising linguistic or national minorities.
mr president, free journalism is vital. especially in times of crisis such as the current coronavirus pandemic, careful reporting by independent journalists is indispensable. but we all know that no authoritarian regime would ever waste a good crisis. one example. for years, morocco has used every opportunity to undermine honest reporting on the legitimate demands of the hirak protesters in the marginalized rif region. the moroccan government is prosecuting hajar raissouni, omar radi, omar naji and really any journalist who is brave enough to speak out about the hirak. protest leaders like sakharov prize candidate nasser zefzafi is throwing it for 20 years in jail. now morocco is using the corona crisis as a cover to crack down on freedom of expression under the guise of national security. let me be very clear: the best way to ensure national security is not to prosecute journalists, but to protect them. commissioner, in countries where press freedom is under pressure, human rights are always under pressure. fighting impunity for crimes against journalists must mean: we need to hold governments to account. and i expect the european union to do the same.
madam president, 1,419 journalists have been killed worldwide since 1993, according to the unesco observatory. the same data shows that in nine out of ten cases, the killers go unpunished. impunity empowers perpetrators, which in an atmosphere of fear and vulnerability, leads to a loss of courage and motivation for journalists and the meaning of the journalistic call in our communities. journalists in some parts of the world are the last line of defense for democracy. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020. fifty-seven journalists were killed around the world last year according to the united nations. although these brutal statistics are changing and the curve is showing a downward trend, in the first nine months of this year, three women journalists and 39 journalists were killed. this is the lowest death toll in a decade. public debate has certainly contributed to this, putting this issue high on the agenda as an insistence on security mechanisms to protect journalists. but we still have to ask ourselves, what is the cost of the written or spoken word, what are the justice and security systems in countries where such violence is present. ladies and gentlemen, this is a question we all have to ask the commissioner and each of us individually, so please take care that the press has the right to reveal and speak about what some would prefer we keep quiet about.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate again in plenary on a subject of fundamental importance. and i think it is very useful that several of you have recalled the long list of journalists who have been victims of violence and attacks in recent years, in recent months, in recent weeks, including in the european union. protecting journalists is a long-term task that requires clear objectives and coordinated action. i mentioned two instruments that will now guard our efforts: the new eu action plan on human rights and democracy for 2024, which sets out clear guidelines for a coordinated and effective approach, and the upcoming european democracy action plan, of which media pluralism and freedom are one of the pillars. i also want to add that the eu sanctions regime remains a key political priority. as you know, the new regime will not replace existing geographic sanctions regimes, some of which already address human rights violations and abuses, for example in syria, belarus or venezuela. the new global sanctions regime will provide the eu with greater flexibility to target those responsible for serious human rights violations and abuses worldwide, no matter where they occur or who is responsible and, of course, who are the victims, including journalists. i am pleased that good progress has been made in the discussions on the proposals at the technical level in the council, and let me acknowledge the longstanding support of the european parliament for such a regime. everyone involved continues to work towards its adoption in the near future, and hopefully before the end of this year. the european parliament's contribution is crucial if we are to achieve our common objectives. i would also like to add that, as i said earlier, if we are working on this protection of journalists through all international contacts, we must also do this work within the european union. and, i remind you, the first report we published on 30 september on the rule of law in the 27 member states of the union has four chapters. one of these chapters concerns media freedom and pluralism, with particular attention to attacks on journalists in recent months, but also to measures that have sometimes been taken in the member states during the emergency period linked to the health crisis we are experiencing. i would also like to add that as commissioner for justice, i have regular opportunities to remind member states, as well as international partners, of the need to fight impunity when violence, abuse or attacks are committed against journalists. i would therefore like to conclude by thanking you for your commitment to press freedom, and assure you of the commission's determination to continue very active work on this subject in the union and outside the union and to strengthen the protection of journalists, both in the member states and in third countries.
in writing. the press, through its representatives, plays a fundamental role in the functioning of democracies. unfortunately, around the world, journalists face intimidation, violence or abuse, often putting their lives in danger. the safety of journalists is a central concern of the european union, which continues to take all measures to protect and promote freedom of opinion and expression. we all need to understand that by supporting journalists, we are basically protecting the truth. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of journalists and the protection of the media in all member states. because if journalists can't do their jobs freely, then our democracies will cease to be democracies. any attempt to silence critical and independent media must therefore be condemned. freedom of expression and independent journalism are key elements for the good democratic functioning of the eu and its member states, and it is our duty to protect journalists around the world.
in writing. on average, between 50 and 90 people are killed every year around the world reporters, investigative journalists, war correspondents. some die because they're investigating corruption, organized crime, or trying to expose the true face of authoritarian governments. unfortunately, this is also happening in the countries of the european union. jan kuciak was a slovak investigative journalist. he was investigating tax fraud by businessmen with ties to top politicians. in february 2018, he was shot dead along with his fiancée martina kušnírová in their home in velka mača, slovakia. kuciak, 27, was the first journalist to be killed in slovakia since independence. his murder has sparked mass social protests and a political crisis. let's not forget daphne anne caruana galizia, who covered the political events in malta. it pointed to government corruption, allegations of money laundering and links between the maltese online gambling industry and organised crime. she didn't give up despite the threats and the lawsuits. in 2016/17 she disclosed sensitive information and allegations related to a number of maltese politicians and the panama papers scandal. she was murdered near her home. she was 53 years old. according to the un, only 10% of crimes against journalists are prosecuted.
in writing. turkey is among the countries with the highest incarceration rates of journalists and media workers. the crackdown on the media has intensified in recent years, with newspapers being closed and journalists being convicted under anti-terrorism laws for exercising freedom of expression. this is institutional repression because the judiciary is a political tool in erdoğan's long arm. when armenian-born journalist hrant dink questioned the attitude of the security forces, he was killed, while the authorities were allegedly aware of the threats against him but refrained from acting. such crimes are committed by the "grey wolves", erdoğan's other long arm. will you promote a europe-wide ban on the 'grey wolves' or their dependent organisations, as they are dangerous and operate against our values and principles as an eu? but i would also like to point out the issue of 'euronews' in turkish. the suppression of freedom of speech in turkey and the interference of the turkish government, through the state television trt, in the news editing of euronews-turkey are facts. without a mechanism to assess the impartiality of the editorial team, the commitment to a 'european perspective' in the news content of the channel is not guaranteed. so who is the sponsor and producer of the turkish news on euronews-turkey?
in writing. in the past year, the covid-19 pandemic has brought many restrictions, closures and changes to people's daily routines. unfortunately, it is also becoming increasingly clear that the press cannot be quite as free as it used to be, even here in europe. in various countries, attempts have been made to suppress the free press, with or without justification for covid-19 measures. the european parliament is clear that the press has a very important role to play in these troubled times. among other things, there have been cases where the government or government circles see the public media as their own ballot box. it is worth recalling that public service broadcasting is not government radio or government television, but must be accessible to all. the owners of large social media platforms also need to take a more serious look at what is being shared on their platforms. when it comes to a blatantly false and dangerous lie, such as a lie about human health, action must be much faster and more effective to prevent such lies from spreading very easily. the european parliament's attention to press freedom in europe should be taken seriously in estonia as well.
in writing. – without journalism, no democracy. this might sound indisputable but today criminals for 22 murders of journalists have still not been condemned for their acts in europe, according to data from the council of europe. beginning of this month was the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists. such issue never stops to have first-importance place on the political agenda. attacks on journalists constitute a threat on democracy itself. it is essential to defend those who risk their lives at work by upholding the right to inform and by expressing critical views, online and offline. these abilities are vital to a healthy democratic debate. this is crucial especially in the context of so-called infodemics and fake news, which became of always-greater importance in 2020. with the partnership for information and democracy launched in september 2019, malta has committed with 38 other countries to promote access to reliable information from free and independent media. such commitment means that journalists and media workers, in the course of their function, must be protected against all forms of violence, threats and discrimination. i believe that this goes also hand in hand with a european framework for whistle-blowers’ protection, for which new eu-wide rules will kick in in 2021.
we now proceed to the second round of voting today. we shall now proceed to the votes on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from 8.00 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in the previous round. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i therefore declare the second round of voting open and remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you can vote until 9.15 p.m.
ladies and gentlemen, today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. before we begin our plenary session, i would like to address the issue of violence in our society. we have to talk about this for a lot of reasons. we need to talk about it to free the voices of the victims and help them break the silence. we need to talk about it to raise awareness and express our commitment to nonviolence and equality. above all, we need to talk about it to find solutions and end this scourge that plagues our society. this year, the covid-19 crisis has exposed and intensified this violence, especially domestic violence. this has often been done in a subtle way, behind closed doors, with no escape, partly because in many member states shelters and helplines are poorly or insufficiently funded. this is unacceptable. the european parliament will continue to insist that all eu member states ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and we will work with the other institutions to bring forward a directive on combating gender-based violence. as the european parliament, we have set an example by turning one of our buildings into a temporary shelter for vulnerable women affected by covid-19. our public institutions have a decisive role to play and must be close to the citizens, must set a good example and be able to help them. we are all proud of the work that the european parliament has done during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework to secure an additional eur 0.8 billion for the rights and values programme, which provides funding for gender equality, the fight against violence against women and girls. in addition, the commission will develop a methodology for assessing community funding to promote gender equality and to improve the integration of the gender dimension in community programmes. we have a duty as institutions to speak up and raise the debate on violence against women and girls and we need to speak up with the right words, but we also need to empower ourselves collectively by taking an integrated, global approach that focuses on socioeconomic and institutional aspects, gender equality and women's rights. on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, the european parliament is committed to pursuing this objective, to do so for women and girls, but also for all of us.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 10 and 11 december 2020 (2020/2833 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. i now give the floor to commission president ursula von der leyen, whom i thank for her presence in the chamber.
president of the commission. – mr president, i come to parliament today to report on our plans for the next european council on 10 and 11 december 2020, but before i turn to that, please allow me to update you on two issues that will certainly also be topics in the european council. it’s about brexit and about the situation we are facing with respect to the multiannual financial framework and nextgenerationeu. honourable members, these are decisive days for our negotiations with the united kingdom, but frankly i cannot tell you today if in the end there will be a deal. there has been genuine progress on a number of important questions: on law enforcement and judicial cooperation; on social security coordination, and also on goods, on services and transport we now have an outline of a possible final text. in these areas there are still some important issues to agree, but they should be manageable. however, there are still three issues that can make the difference between a deal and no deal. the crucial topics for the european side are of course questions linked to the level playing field, governance and fisheries. with very little time ahead of us, we will do all in our power to reach an agreement. we are ready to be creative. but we are not ready to call into question the integrity of the single market – the main safeguard for european prosperity and wealth. this is why we need to establish robust mechanisms, ensuring that competition is – and remains – free and fair over time. in the discussions about state aid we have still serious issues, for instance when it comes to enforcement. significant difficulties remain on the question how we can secure – now and over time – our common high standards on labour, on social rights, on the environment, climate change and tax transparency – you know all these standards. we want to know what remedies are available in case one side will deviate in the future. because trust is good, but law is better. and crucial in the light of recent experience: a strong governance system is essential to ensure that what has been agreed is actually done. concerning fisheries: no one questions the uk’s sovereignty on its own waters, but we ask for predictability and guarantees for our fishermen and fisherwomen who have been sailing in these waters for decades, if not centuries. honourable members, as i said, the next days are going to be decisive. the european union is well prepared for a no-deal-scenario, but of course we prefer to have an agreement. i fully trust in the skilful steer of our chief negotiator michel barnier, but one thing is clear: whatever the outcome, there has to be – and there will be – a clear difference between being a full member of the union and being just a valued partner. i am fully aware of the challenges the current situation is creating especially for parliament and the ratification process, and this is why i sincerely thank you for your support and understanding. as in the past, we will walk those last miles together. sehr geehrte damen und herren abgeordnete! zur gleichen zeit wartet die union auf grünes licht für unseren nächsten mehrjährigen finanzrahmen und nextgenerationeu. die kommission hat im mai ihr aufbauprogramm nextgenerationeu und den mehrjahreshaushalt vorgelegt. die staats- und regierungschefs der 27 eu—mitgliedstaaten haben im juli vier lange tage und nächte verhandelt und einen kompromiss gefunden. sie, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren abgeordnete, haben dieses paket weiterentwickelt. am ende steht jetzt ein ergebnis, das die vielen politischen anliegen angemessen berücksichtigt. jetzt haben zwei mitgliedstaaten zweifel angemeldet. der beste weg wäre, diese zweifel auszuräumen. im juli haben sich alle 27 staats- und regierungschefs auch auf einen konditionalitätsmechanismus verständigt. es geht hier um verstöße gegen das rechtsstaatsprinzip, die das europäische budget gefährden, und nur um diese. das ist angemessen, das ist verhältnismäßig, und das ist auch notwendig. es ist sehr schwer vorstellbar, dass irgendjemand in europa irgendetwas dagegen haben könnte. meine damen und herren, wer dennoch zweifel hat, für den gibt es einen klaren weg. er kann vor den europäischen gerichtshof ziehen und die neuen regeln auf herz und nieren prüfen lassen. das ist der ort, an dem wir üblicherweise meinungsverschiedenheiten über rechtstexte auslegen, und nicht zu lasten von millionen europäerinnen und europäern, die dringend auf unsere hilfe warten. wir sind ihnen eine rasche antwort schuldig. und zwar denjenigen, die ihre restaurants und geschäfte zu unserem wohl vorübergehend schließen mussten, denjenigen, die in ihrer existenz bedroht sind, den menschen, die um ihre jobs bangen – auch in polen und in ungarn. honourable members, this is especially the case as the pandemic situation remains serious. with nearly 3 000 deaths a day, covid-19 was the number one cause of death in the eu last week. hospitals remain under stress, and in some regions intensive care units are overwhelmed. i know that shop owners, bartenders and waiters in restaurants want an end to restrictions, but we must learn from the summer and not repeat the same mistakes. relaxing restrictions too fast and too much risks there being a third wave after christmas. weeks ago, i said that this christmas will be different. and yes, it will be quieter. this is also a question of solidarity between member states. but there is also good news. the commission has now secured contracts on vaccines with six pharmaceutical companies. the first european citizens might already be vaccinated before the end of december. there is finally light at the end of the tunnel. and yes, as i’ve said, vaccines are important, but what counts are vaccinations. member states must get ready now. we’re talking about millions of syringes, we’re talking about the cold chain, we’re talking about organising vaccination centres, we’re talking about trained personnel that is there – you name it, all this has to be prepared. in short, member states have to prepare the logistics for the deployment of hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines, because this is our ticket out of the pandemic. honourable members, with or without covid, there is another crisis that rumbles on: global warming, the crisis of our planet. and, honourable members, a growing number of countries have pledged carbon neutrality by 2050. good news. i firmly believe we must all put a price on carbon. these words could have been mine, but they’re not. these are the remarks of antónio guterres, secretary-general of the united nations, at the g20 summit last weekend. for the first time in four years, the g20 agreed on clear commitments for the fight against climate change, and europe has been proudly leading the way. by now, more than half of the g20 members have committed to climate or carbon neutrality around 2050. this demonstrates that being courageous pays off, and it shows that we have chosen the right course when we decided to cut back co2 emissions until 2030 by at least 55%. this should also encourage the heads of state and government to confirm this goal at the next european council. et avec cela, nous voulons renforcer la coopération et permettez-moi de parler à la fin de la sécurité des personnes en europe. je suis sûre que je parle au nom de toute l’union quand je dis que l’europe est solidaire des français et des autrichiens. l’europe est unie face aux attaques terroristes au cœur de nos villes et l’europe est prête à agir. le 9 décembre, la commission présentera un nouvel agenda européen pour la lutte contre le terrorisme, nous voulons renforcer la coopération entre les services de sécurité, nous voulons donner aux gardes-frontières la technologie moderne dont ils ont besoin, intensifier nos efforts pour éviter la radicalisation et mieux protéger les lieux publics. but there is only so much we can do when member states do not put into practice what they agree upon. for example, the strong rules against money laundering and terrorist financing, or against the use of firearms. implementation is key and i’m sure the european council will be an opportunity to turn to action quickly. honourable members, from brexit to the fight against the pandemic, from the budget to the fight against terrorists, it is when we manage to join forces that we europeans can achieve the most. it is when we negotiate hard and then stick to the compromise found that we move forward best. this is how we will finally leave the corona world and continue to build our future. lang lebe europa! long live europe! vive l’europe! (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do anything about this. the council's report should remind us of the situation in europe as a whole. there is a lot of fear, a lot of worry in this european union. people look at christmas and don't know how to celebrate christmas. the economic forecasts have improved somewhat, but 2020 remains a historic 7 to 8% drop in our european economy. in our neighbourhood, we have enormous uncertainty with turkey, with brexit. it is therefore not the time for party politics, nor is it the time for national egotism, but it is the time now to work together and to give people on this continent direction, to give hope, to give perspective, to show a strong europe. the first central point is the corona question. i am proud to be a european because we have succeeded in following a common path in vaccination and in the vaccination strategy. i would like to congratulate the commission, and you too, madam president, on the success of this common approach. it was european researchers, who are at the forefront of this, who have made these great advances with european research funding. we will now show with the contracts that have been concluded that there are no poor and rich europeans, no big and small countries, but that all europeans will have access to this vaccine at the same time and can be vaccinated accordingly. we should ensure that the distribution starts at the same time in all the countries of the european union, if possible, in order to make it comprehensible. this development of vaccines also shows us what europeans can achieve if we invest. i'm thinking, for example, of cancer, another big health issue. if we act together, we can achieve a great deal. the second is, of course, the economy: 1.8 trillion euros, corona and mfr are on the table together. it shows that we stand together. it would be a sign of stability if we could get results quickly, and that is why the vetoes of poland and hungary are simply irresponsible. we as the european parliament have remedied the mistake of the july council. at that time, the heads of state or government were not in a position to take such decisions on the rule of law. i want to thank our team. without the european parliament, this mechanism would not exist, and we have achieved a great deal together. i want to continue to argue, i want to discuss with hungary and poland, because for example the argument that europe would dictate how abortion is organized in poland is simply a lie. it's a lie, plain and simple! the european union will not intervene in abortion issues because it is a matter of national competence. so please treat the arguments fairly. secondly, if someone claims that this proposal is not covered by the lisbon treaty, as viktor orbán does, i can only say that i do not see it that way and that you should go to the ecj and have it clarified there. that's how the european union works, but not with a veto. we must therefore send a clear signal that the european parliament will not back down an inch. this mechanism is right, it is necessary, it is overdue, and the sword we will then have is in the hands of the commission, which i now want to encourage to use it, to enforce the rule of law in the european union. ladies and gentlemen, another issue is the neighbourhood around us, which creates insecurity. i would like to say a few words about turkey, because that too will play a role in the european council. the list is now very long: the breach of international law in syria, varosia, now the breach of un resolutions in the gas dispute. we have offered greece to settle this in the hague, but erdoğan refuses. and in libya, the question is whether arms are being supplied, whether turkey is supplying arms there and also breaking international law, un resolutions. and i haven't even talked about what is happening in turkey with the breakdown of the fundamental values, the independence of the judiciary and the media. enough is enough! cyprus and greece need to be assured that their european partners are standing by them, that we are acting together. and after the october council had already discussed turkey, and sanctions had been suspended at that time, we must now make it clear: enough has been said, and now action must follow in the european council. the european union always offers partnership with turkey. we want this together, but if someone is constantly shutting us out of this partnership and constantly provoking us, then there must be consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation we are in is difficult, but i think we have a good chance with the steps that are being taken that we show people in the winter of 2020: it is better when we act together, because then we are stronger.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to begin my speech today, 25 november, by remembering the victims, the women who have been killed by their abusers. our memory and our support for their sons, their daughters, their families and the clear commitment that the institutions will not stop working until we have succeeded in ending the greatest scourge that lives in this world at this time, and that is that women are killed for the mere fact of being women. ladies and gentlemen, the position of this parliament has always been clear. since 2018 we have been advocating the need for a legislative instrument that links the budget with the defense of the rule of law, and for that reason, we will not change a single comma of the agreement we have reached in the work of the tripartite dialogues with the council in this regard. we are being asked to do so by the citizens - 77% of european citizens agree with this instrument of the rule of law - by the trade unions in hungary and poland, by the mayors of warsaw and budapest, and by a large proportion of european citizens. and it's not the time to choose between money and the rule of law. if we are to defend the european project, we need both, and we need them urgently. the european union is not a bazaar. the european union is a community of law. and in this sense, i also ask for courage. i ask the people's party to be brave enough to continue defending the rule of law as it has done so far, but i understand that it is quite contradictory when there are mps in their ranks from the governing parties who are blocking this proposal. social democracy, you know. we will not let the public down. nor does it mean that hungary and poland, which have confidence in the european union, will be able to do so. nor will we accept solutions which harm the beneficiaries of the funds. we are also in the middle of other negotiations which are also of fundamental importance to us. negotiations with the recovery fund are continuing, and we hope they will be concluded before the end of the year. and we also hope for an agreement on our future relationship with the united kingdom. we are on time, but we need to do our job and our responsibility as a european parliament. we cannot give up a reliable and stable system of governance, competition rules that protect our internal market and an agreement that safeguards the interests of our fisheries sector. you see, ladies and gentlemen, there are weeks of work left and we must continue to exercise our responsibility. we have seen for months now competition between member states in managing the covid situation. we now see how much progress is being made in the health union which our political group has called for from the outset. we have also seen how much we need to move forward on that transparent plan for vaccine purchase and distribution, which is the hopeful horizon that we have at the moment. that is how europe is built, and that is why i ask the leaders of the council to get down to work and not waste a single minute. and that's the end of it. they should not waste a single minute on reforming the migration and asylum pact either. we need a binding mechanism for the relocation of immigrants and refugees. fundamental rights must be respected. in recent days my country has been one of those suffering the greatest migratory pressure in the canary islands, but we have been calling for a genuine policy of solidarity for many years now, which would have avoided the tragedies of moria and lampedusa. we are late, but we are still in time, because in the mediterranean not only human life is sinking. the dignity of the european project is also being undermined if we continue to sit on our hands.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, i will start with the subjects which are still under discussion: the draft multiannual budget and the recovery plan, own resources and the rule of law protection mechanism. europe is being held hostage by two countries from a region that has been badly affected by the communist experience, which has spent a few decades behind the iron curtain and from which i come. a region where the pandemic has hit many families hard, where hospitals, entrepreneurs, researchers, farmers, communities and young people are in urgent need of european investment. a region where we still remember very well what the word oppression means, as do the words freedom and democracy. and, in the face of this history, accusing europe of being soviet is really ridiculous, even more so when you behave yourself like a despot and you stand in line to get the first box of vaccines from putin. yes, europe is being held hostage, but there is no fatality or east-west split. there are europeans from east and west, north and south, determined to live in a state of law, respecting freedom. the european budget is protected against fraud, but now we must also protect it against corruption, in a neutral and impartial way. but the polls are clear: for european citizens, some authoritarian politicians would no longer listen to their people. they would have us believe that the abuse is coming from brussels. the problem with our union is not authoritarianism but the difficulty of making clear decisions. and in the face of the pandemic, we've started to show that this is possible. ladies and gentlemen, let us also show that brussels, as they say, is able to take strong decisions to defend our freedom and democracy and let us also continue to protect our interests and values in the negotiations with the united kingdom. we must insist that the points which are essential to us be included in the agreement, but also stress the importance for european democracy that parliament has sufficient time before it decides on an unprecedented partnership agreement. but let's also do it by building with our international partners. let us use all the strength and influence of europe, as you have said, madam president, and prepare for cop26 in glasgow today, working with the united states to fight climate change on a global scale. parliament and the renew group have already sent a strong message on these issues. we support the european green deal and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. the council will also have to demonstrate similar determination and unity on the subject of climate change. i hope you'll give him this message. only by setting realistic but ambitious targets will we succeed in transforming our industries through green and digital technologies and re-launching the european economy for the world of tomorrow.
in writing. – i underline the urgency to find a general agreement in the council regarding the adoption of the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and next generation eu in order to enable member states to access eu’s historic budget of eur 1.8 trillion from 1 january 2021. european taxpayers, our citizens, already expressed their firm support to link eu funds to respect for rule-of-law and it is extremely difficult to understand how anyone can oppose that. rule of law is one of the fundamental values upon which the eu is based on. it guarantees fundamental rights and values, allows the application of eu law, and supports an investment-friendly business environment and predictability. under the rule of law, all public authorities act within the constraints set out by law, in accordance with the values of democracy and fundamental rights, and under the control of independent and impartial courts. accordingly, i urge governments currently opposing the link of eu funds to rule-of-law to listen to the people, enhance public trust, and allow the finalisation and adoption of eu budget, crucial to overcome current socio-economic crisis and provide rapid solutions to millions of europeans counting on our help.
in writing. the blackmail of hungary and poland, which veto the multiannual financial framework and the eu recovery plan, opposing the conditionality of eu funds to the rule of law, is unacceptable. eu citizens are deprived of emergency support in the face of the pandemic crisis because of these dangerously anti-european governments. it has come to the point where the mayors of budapest and warsaw are asking for direct access to european funding for municipalities to avoid harmful isolation. the european parliament has firmly stated its decision not to give in to this blackmail. we will not accept any compromise that endangers the european budget through possible violations of the rule of law. i therefore ask the council to find ways out of the current impasse at the 'last chance' summit on 10-11 december, without compromising on a fundamental point for european unity based on the rule of law and democratic rules. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan. but it would mean that the hungarians and the poles would suffer because of the stubbornness of their own rulers. there is also the option of rescuing the recovery plan, by way of exceptional financial assistance, under articles 122 and 310 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, is an important element of eu-algeria relations. these relations are governed by the association agreement and further reinforced in the partnership priorities. the eu has an interest in a strong and strategic cooperation with algeria and is trying to reinforce the bilateral partnership. in a sustained, confidence-building approach, the eu stands ready to support the reforms that the algerian authorities will want to undertake, keeping in mind that the ultimate objective is to respond to the legitimate expectations of the algerian people. we need more dialogue with algeria, not less. this has been the objective that we have particularly pursued during the recent months. after more than a year without institutional meetings, we have relaunched the cooperation with a series of meetings at expert level within the framework of the association agreement. among these, we also had a very open and frank exchange in the subcommittee on political dialogue, security and human rights on 19 october. this meeting was the opportunity to establish an open dialogue on human rights developments in algeria, including the importance of freedom of expression and media freedom. we also raised some of the individual cases referred to in the debate today. we accelerated our expert meetings to be able to hold a meeting of the eu-algeria association council on 7 december. among other issues, the rule of law and fundamental rights will also figure on the agenda of this council for a dialogue at the political level. we regularly raise the human rights situation and individual cases in our contacts at different levels with the algerian authorities in brussels and in algiers. and we told them that the condemnation in the appeal of khaled drareni on 15 september to two years in prison, was not encouraging. the eu supports journalists in algeria through emergency grants as well as through advocacy work on the situation of algerian journalists. the recent election of algeria as vice-chair of the third committee of the un general assembly was a welcome development. it will provide an additional opportunity for closer cooperation also in the area of human rights. it comes with responsibilities for the promotion and protection of human rights around the world. we are determined to deepen an open dialogue with algeria, based on trust and constructive criticism. and we are closely following domestic developments in this crucial moment. we keep encouraging our algerian partners to maintain an inclusive dialogue with all the representatives of the society.
in writing. the algerian intransigence in the face of the charlie hebdo controversy reflects the deplorable state of fundamental freedoms in that country. the case of yacine mebarki sentenced to ten years in prison for offending islam is even more symptomatic than that of journalist khaled drareni, sanctioned for his coverage of hirak movements. sadly, there are countries around the world where blasphemy is illegal. and where, as in algeria since 2006, "proselytizing" to muslims is punishable by two to five years in prison. this double standard is permanent. the us state department noted in its 2019 report that while christian churches were experiencing a rise in severity, some of the obligations of imams were relaxed. so, as the "islamophobia" trial rages against france, let us remember that we are among the few states in the world where freedom of conscience and religion are not just empty words.
author. mr president, commissioner, as you know, the war in ethiopia is provoking a major humanitarian crisis in the region. more than 40,000 refugees in sudan and thousands of internally displaced persons in a country where more than 15 million people were already dependent on humanitarian aid. it is vital to agree to an immediate ceasefire, demand the protection of civilians and support an inclusive dialogue between all parties. we must put an end to all external interference in the conflict, from eritrea to the nile basin countries. but if we really want to contribute to peace and stability in the country, we have to go further. we must cancel the debt and stop making humanitarian aid conditional on immigration control, because peace and stability can only be achieved with full respect for economic, social, civil and political freedoms. and this goes through ending the poverty in the country and the inequalities that plague ethiopia.
author. mr president, just over a year ago we welcomed the award of the nobel prize to ethiopian prime minister abye ahmed for his work in promoting peace and cooperation and for his role in resolving the cross-border conflict between his country and eritrea. that is why it is with embarrassment that we have seen today the democratic transition initiated in ethiopia being jeopardized by the escalation of the bloody conflict between the federal government and the tigray regional administration. the conflict must be stopped and mediated urgently through democratic dialogue, avoiding the deaths of hundreds of innocent civilians, mass displacements, that is, the violation of human rights and freedom of the press and the emergence of a global humanitarian crisis. the resolution, which has gathered a broad consensus on the negotiations, is a strong appeal to the parties to the conflict to promote the restoration of democratic legality, ensuring the restoration of constitutional normality and peace in ethiopia. it called on the federal and regional governments of the country, as well as all neighbouring countries, to refrain from further military mobilizations or threats and to engage in a sincere, peaceful and inclusive dialogue. it also called on the european union and its member states to make every diplomatic effort with the federal and regional authorities of the neighbouring countries and the multilateral institutions to protect civilians at risk and ensure their access to humanitarian aid, which must be greatly increased. at a time when relations between europe and africa are undergoing a major upswing, the parliamentary dimension reinforces the defence of democratic legitimacy and the protection of the peoples. today, we join our voices and call for the mobilization of all the resources needed by the people of ethiopia. for peace, for territorial integrity, for tolerance, for transparency, for freedom of expression and for the right to a decent life.
author. – mr president, in his acceptance speech as laureate for the nobel peace prize, ethiopian prime minister abiy ahmed said that war is the epitome of hell for all involved. as the youngest leader in an african country, the prime minister managed to make peace with neighbouring eritrea after one of africa’s longest-running conflicts. unfortunately, we witnessed that domestic tensions between the governmental forces and the tplf have brought the weapons back in ethiopia, and that the country is moving towards a true civil war. as the winner of the world’s most renowned peace prize, the prime minister should himself reject the notion that he can resolve ethiopia’s political crisis through force. also, the tplf should immediately refrain from further hostilities and together both parties should find the courage to solve their political divergences by peaceful and democratic means. two months ago the european parliament adopted a report on eu security cooperation with our partners on the african continent, including the horn of africa. current developments in ethiopia, a crucial country in this region, risks to spill over to neighbouring states. the european union should remain supportive for the efforts of its partner countries and the african union to prevent a bigger regional conflict and advocate an inclusive dialogue to reach peace, security and stability. at the same time humanitarian workers should have unrestricted access to all areas affected by the conflict, and european humanitarian entities should offer their continued assistance to ethiopian refugees in the regions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, fears are mounting that numerous civilians who are unable to escape the fighting could be caught in the crossfire in tigray. i, like many in this house, am deeply concerned about the risk of violence against civilians, including potential war crimes in the fighting around mekelle. reports of unimaginable atrocious crimes committed against civilians for no reason other than their ethnicity is heartbreaking and needs to stop. i join the growing calls for mediation to halt the conflict that threatens to destabilise this part of east africa. hundreds, possibly thousands of people have died so far and many more forced to flee their homes. this needs to stop. peace and dialogue must be the victor in this conflict and the international community must do everything it can to ensure this happens. i’m very pleased that the european parliament is loud in calling for this action here this morning. the sooner it happens the better.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the means at our disposal to bring calm to ethiopia are, in short, limited. appeals for reason, the demand for an immediate ceasefire, attempts at mediation, and the request to set up a monitoring system are certainly desirable reactions. however, this is a series of reactions and announcements that are as necessary as they are unoriginal. since we are dealing with a conflict within a state, the first actors to act are the political authorities of that state. the first organised outside power to intervene is the african union, which is designed to provide solutions to this kind of conflict. the union, with its multi-toolbox, can of course play a role, but it cannot force fate. i would like to ask the commissioner to inform his colleague, mrs urpilainen, and the external action service that the committee on development would be interested in a debate on the suspension mechanisms that could be considered in the event of a continuation of the crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ethiopia is a special country for us europeans, because it is the oldest christian country in africa, and also a colony for a time of one of the later member countries of the european union. i think that the relationship with that country should be special in that regard, and i will say it this way, that we need a dialogue with prime minister abiy, we need a dialogue with addis ababa, because our real influence on this situation is only through pressure on the government there. of course, it's important to remember that killing civilians by soldiers is a war crime. we must also say, with a certain pragmatism, that the fight against the autonomists, with their capital in mekelle, cannot lead to the slaughter of women, children and people not involved in this fight. and let's also remember that ethiopia has already lost eritrea, so it's looking particularly at the danger of losing another territory. dialogue is needed, pressure is needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the brutal conflict that has been raging in ethiopia for more than three weeks does not seem to be close to a solution, either diplomatic or military. on the contrary, we are witnessing an escalation of tensions which could have dramatic consequences. the start of the final phase of the operation, announced by prime minister abiy a few hours ago, risks turning into a needless bloodbath, which will hardly lead to the cessation of hostilities. the conflict is taking on the characteristics of an existential clash between the federal authorities and the tigrinya leaders: while the former aim at a definite, decisive and ruthless solution that puts an end to the resistance of the local authorities, the latter have called on the population to fight to the death against a government deemed illegitimate. given the motivations and forces on both sides, there is a real risk of the opening of a war of attrition characterized by very high levels of brutality. there are signs of this, such as the massacre of as many as 600 unarmed civilians in the town of mai-kadra on 9 november, an incident which could amount to a war crime. we are facing a potential humanitarian catastrophe, the future of a country already plagued by unresolved ethnic tensions, and the stability of a region essential to our security. that is why we need to be more involved, including immediate and close dialogue between our special representative for the horn of africa and the three african union counterparts who have just been sent to addis ababa. coordinating international efforts to reach a negotiated settlement of the conflict, guaranteeing the territorial integrity of ethiopia, is more important than ever, and strengthening our common foreign and security policy instruments before others exploit this vacuum.
mr president, i would like to say to prime minister abiy ahmed, if he is watching this or his people are watching this, in a multi-ethnic state, no one should be allowed to have the upper hand. ethiopia cannot be allowed to descend into a yugoslav-type conflict. that is not the soul of your country. mr abiy, you have achieved a lot. you have slashed corruption and you have achieved more democratic openness, but you have no excuse for driving 4 000 people a day across the border to sudan, no excuse for not sitting at the table of the african union and of the united nations and not listening to the eu, for not allowing humanitarian aid into tigray, and for not protecting people enough so that they have to flee addis ababa if the wrong ethnicity happens to be on their id. the longer blood flows, the harder it is for peace to triumph. there is a point in a war where it is easier for people to take revenge than to listen. mr abiy, my colleague, ms zovko, reminded you of what you said last year. let’s step back from this ugly place. the european union is here to help. let’s bring back construction. let’s bring back peace.
madam president, please. over a million- 100,000 citizens have signed the minority safepack initiative, and their voices and expectations need to be heard by the committee. they want to stop the decline in population, the loss of language. some of my colleagues are sensitive to this. of course it is, because there are member states where national minorities are protected and respected, but there are countries where they are not even recognized, where the state does not respect existing minority protection laws. the luxembourg court has clearly stated that the union has the possibility to adopt supporting measures in this matter. the european commission has shown that it can act on the values enshrined in the treaties when it has developed a strategy to protect other minorities. do the same for indigenous national and linguistic minorities through the minority safepack initiative. let us protect our common european heritage. i ask the committee to take a bold legislative step, following the citizens' initiative and parliament's decision, as good governance and consistency require. thank you, sir.
(start of speech was not made at the microphone) ... people have signed for this in the petition. no one disputes the right of eu citizens to gather a number of signatures for a citizens' initiative to support a particular legislative proposal. the discussion - the subject of this discussion - is whether or not the subject of this petition falls within the composition or competence of the european commission. articles two and three of the treaty on european union speak of the individual rights of citizens of the european union. on the other hand, when we talk about collective rights or minority rights, the same treaty of the european union speaks about the fact that this is strictly within the competence of the member states. beyond what the treaty says, i quote from a report by the european union agency for fundamental rights which says, and i quote: "the rights of national minorities are beyond the scope of eu law. the eu has no competence in what are called collective rights. this is the subject of the debate: do we respect the individual rights and freedoms of people in the european union or do we bring up collective rights to be regulated by the european commission - an area where it has no competence whatsoever.
i'm going to be a doctor. mr president, commissioner, the eu's exposure to us extraterritorial sanctions is indeed a major challenge. recently the current us administration activated harsh economic sanctions against russia, iran and cuba in a unilateralist and confrontational turn away from earlier policies of multilateral containment. eu businesses are seriously and possibly even specifically affected by these measures. the extraterritorial reach of sanctions not only affects eu businesses but also calls into question the political independence and, ultimately, the sovereignty of the eu and its member states. i am hopeful that the biden administration will take a more measured and inclusive approach, instead of the confrontational and binary view of trade that has been us policy under president trump. as well as strengthening our own trade defence tools, including the eu's trade enforcement officer, it is imperative that the eu works with allies to modernise the wto so that it is fit for an increasingly digital and post-covid trading world.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the members for this debate. the strength of feeling has been well heard , so i think it’s really timely that we are discussing this issue. the truth is that these trade-related extraterritorial effects of third-country sanctions are against international law and, therefore, we do have to respond, and i hope that we can continue this dialogue as we prepare for our communications next year. we are assessing carefully all the options that are possible to counter the extraterritorial application of these sanctions. i think we all share a common interest in ensuring that the european union’s policies should not be determined by the threat or imposition of third-country sanctions, and that european companies and businesses should not suffer any negative consequences of these sanctions, but we know what is happening in the real world. i want to give you my full assurance on behalf of the commission that we are committed to addressing these issues and we will respond. as i say, i’m very happy to continue this important discussion during and after the commission’s communication, which will be published early in 2021. as this year closes and a new dawn rises, we hope for a better atmosphere next year, not just in relation to trade issues but also, hopefully, in relation to the pandemic, which, most unusually, has a speaking from this podium, so its effects are everywhere. so i want to give you my full guarantee and assurance that we have already discussed this issue in great detail within the commission and we will come forward with our communication early next year.
this item is closed.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the dublin iii regulation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the dublin ii regulation.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european asylum policy is not working. the 2015-2016 migration peak highlighted major failures in the common asylum system. five years later, we have still not succeeded in reforming this common policy, in particular because of a deadlock in the council since 2016. in september 2019, president ursula von der leyen announced a new pact on asylum and migration. it is in this context that i have started work on the dublin iii implementation assessment to assess the strengths and weaknesses of this regulation. dublin is a pillar of european asylum policy. it lays down the criteria for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application. a few words about the method: this report is based on field data, feedback from asylum actors at local, national and european levels. field missions were carried out in germany, the netherlands, romania and france. i met many actors in the reception centres and asylum administrations of the member states. a libe committee hearing with experts, representatives of states and ngos, a study by the european parliament's research service which provided a lot of information on the implementation of the various provisions. we draw the expected general conclusion that the dublin iii regulation is ineffective and suffers from significant implementation gaps at member state level. we have four observations. firstly, dublin places a disproportionate burden on the countries of first entry. they're under a lot of pressure, with too little solidarity. the fire in moria was a symbol of the absence of europe and reforms. one third of the member states receive 90% of asylum seekers: germany, france, greece, italy, spain and the netherlands. secondly, there are many obstacles to the determination of the responsible state: shortcomings in eurodac registration, the biased application of the hierarchy of criteria, the burden of procedures and their complexity for asylum seekers, but also for asylum actors. the procedures thus generate considerable human, financial and material costs. yet only 11% of transfers are actually made. this is unacceptable for the thousands of public officials, for procedures that do not succeed. this is unacceptable, especially for asylum seekers who are held for far too long - months, years - before a decision is taken. third, the path of migrants is an underestimated determinant. in particular, secondary movements are an enemy of the principle of a single asylum application in europe. this phenomenon is increasing rapidly. he's rigging the dublin machine by drastically increasing the number of procedures. fourthly, the dublin failure is first and foremost a human failure. dublin's inefficiency is weighing on migrants, who have already suffered trauma. the best interests of the child are not being properly applied. the same is true of family reunification. access to justice does not meet european standards. in the medium term, we need to reform these rules. the common system must of course be changed, with solidarity, with clarification of procedures. but most importantly, we must act now. we should not expect reform that will not come for a year or two, perhaps more. improve the application of the rules today. there is a great deal of room for progress on the part of the states to ensure more attention to human, material and financial resources for asylum policy. more dialogue is needed between the asylum authorities in the member states. governance between states and with the european union needs to be strengthened. we're not gonna solve all of them by changing the rules. some are flawed, others are poorly applied. we're not in a crisis anymore. a more humane and effective european asylum policy is possible in the short term. we also expect the commission to act now.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank ms keller and the shadow rapporteurs for this constructive report, which constitutes an important contribution to the debate on migration. we share the same assessment of the current important shortcomings in the implementation of the dublin iii regulation. this is an area where the commission has proposed a fresh start, with a new pact on migration and asylum. i believe that the pack, notably the proposals for an asylum and migration management regulation, and for a new crisis and force majeure regulation, will allow to address many of the challenges identified in your report. indeed, the pact rebalances solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibility between the member states. the pact is based on the concept of compulsory solidarity, a solidarity that would be tailored to the needs of the member states faced with a migratory pressure or risk of such pressure, as well as following search and rescue operations. a solidarity that would be effective in all times, including in times of crisis. with our proposals there is no flexibility on the principle that all member states must contribute, only on how member states can contribute. the main forms of solidarity contributions are relocation and return sponsorship, and there is also the possibility to contribute through capacity measures. a correction mechanism will ensure that there will be always a credible level of solidarity in the form of relocation or return sponsorship. but solidarity goes hand-in-hand with responsibility, and the new pact proposes new effective responsibility rules. as suggested in your report, our legislative proposals include targeted changes to make the system more efficient and to determine the member state responsible to deal with an asylum application. this will discourage abuses and prevent unauthorised movements. while the responsibility criterion linked to first entry remains, these new rules would allow to make the other criteria more effective. for example, we propose to widen the definition of family members to include siblings and families formed in transit and to simplify the rules on evidence relating to family reunification. in line with your report, we also propose to prolong the periods of responsibility for member states. for instance, a member state would become responsible if an applicant makes an application within three years following the irregular entry, which is an extension from the current 12 months. similarly, a member state would be responsible to deal with an asylum application if the applicant holds a visa or residence permit that expired less than three years before instead of, respectively, six months and two years currently. finally, it is important to stress that the first entry criterion goes hand—in—hand with a new approach on compulsory solidarity which will ensure that responsibilities are fairly shared amongst member states. in addition, the pact presents several initiatives to make our return policy more credible and sustainable, as suggested in your report, such as the implementation of the frontex mandate on returns, the system of return sponsorship, the forthcoming strategy on voluntary returns and reintegration, and the creation of a european returns coordinator. mr president, ms keller, to reform our asylum and migration policy, we need to be pragmatic and find common ground to move forward, striking precisely a delicate balance between solidarity and responsibility. keeping the middle ground and balance among all the elements of the pact is the best way forward. i would like to thank you again for the implementation of the report. we look forward to engaging with the european parliament on the different legislative proposals presented together with a pact to reach an overall agreement on the comprehensive and sustainable reform of the european migration and asylum policy.
this item is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 15 december 2020 and the final vote on wednesday 16 december 2020.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the return directive and will continue to monitor the implementation of the return directive.
member of the commission. – mr president, return is a key component of a comprehensive, credible and sustainable approach to migration. i first would like to thank you, ms strik, as well as the shadow rapporteurs for this implementation report on the return directive. i’m glad that the pact on migration and asylum presented by the commission last september addresses many of the challenges identified in your reports. the pact takes a human approach, which builds on the principles of integrated policy-making, solidarity and the fair sharing of responsibility. it offers tools to cover all aspects of return, from the moment of first arrival in the eu and issuance of an obligation to return until the readmission and reintegration in the country of origin. the pact reinforces our legal framework, closing the loopholes between asylum and return procedures that are currently affecting the efficiency of our systems. the return directive will continue to be the cornerstone of our common eu framework. we are pleased that the work on that dossier has resumed. in this context, and in reply to your report, i would therefore like to make the following remarks: first, we agree that there is a strong need to improve relations with third countries in order to ensure cooperation for effective and sustainable returns. that is why strengthening our cooperation with third countries on all aspects of migration, in a spirit of trust and mutually beneficial partnership, is a priority of the pact. in the context of these partnerships, we need, firstly, to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of readmission cooperation and to develop new ones for a selected number of third countries. effective cooperation on readmission and migration is developed through active engagement in a sustained dialogue with our partners, as well as mobilising the policies and tools at our disposal for incentivising and rewarding cooperation. second, we agree on the primacy of voluntary returns. this is why we are working on a new strategy on voluntary return and reintegration that we will present next year. reintegration is an important part of the eu’s support to third countries. we need to reinforce the consistency of national approaches with third countries, but also increase the ownership of the process by our partners. this strategy will also reinforce the effectiveness, attractiveness and accessibility of the voluntary return programmes set up in the member states, and from third countries to countries of origin. third, let me assure you that the pact fully respects the fundamental right to an effective remedy of the migrants subject to a return decision. to this end, the recast return directive and the amendments to the proposed asylum procedures regulation further harmonise the right to appeal in order to address the differences between member states. we understand your concerns concerning the possible negative effects that indiscriminate and long entry bans can have on the willingness of irregular migrants to cooperate on return and depart voluntarily. our intention remains to deter irregular reimmigration of those who did not respect eu rules while preserving the possibility of legal access to the eu. we agree that there is a significant discrepancy in the way in which member states determine the risk that the migrant may flee while return procedures are ongoing. that is why we proposed a common list of criteria in the recast return directive to assess the risk of absconding, which is the main ground to place a person subject to a return decision in administrative detention. finally, let me stress that we attach great importance to the use of effective alternatives to detention. we agree that it remains an underexplored area that can bring positive results for both the migrants and the authorities concerned. in our view, the report confirms that there are matters of common interest on which we can work together. i would like to thank you again for your report and we trust that, with this important report having been tabled, we can now advance in earnest to reach an agreement that would improve the return of irregular migrants.
this item is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 15 december 2020 and the final vote on wednesday 16 december 2020.
the following is a brief presentation of the report by dennis radtke and agnes jongerius on a strong social europe for just transitions (2020/2084 (ini)) (a9-0233/2020).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we must make social progress possible for all. with higher minimum wages, so that no one has to choose between hot water and hot food at the end of the month. with a zero-hour contract ban so you can make plans and be sure of your income. and more affordable social housing, so that startups can really start building their future. these are the challenges for the netherlands and for europe. together, together we will first get through the crisis, forgetting no one: that should be the assignment. and we're going to deliver on this! the report will be the starting point for a more social europe next year. we are also laying the foundations for the social action plan which commissioner schmit is due to present in january. it is important that we learn the lessons of the lisbon strategy and of the previous crisis. social progress was thrown overboard then and we cannot afford to do it again. we need the social objectives to be achieved by 2030 at the latest, a new social agenda for europe. at the social summit in porto, all the heads of government and the european commission must sign this, including our own prime minister rutte! together with my german christian-democratic colleague, dennis radtke, and the shadow rapporteurs from left to right, we have produced an ambitious and balanced report. empl had broad support. if we want to make the sustainable and digital transition possible in a fair way, it must be accompanied by social progress. 'leave no one behind' cannot remain a hollow slogan and that is why we must invest more in people. the recovery and resilience plan must have a strong social dimension with so many plans for social progress that are on par with the economic and sustainable goals. we must focus on good jobs if we are to reduce youth unemployment structurally. young people are not waiting for the thousandth uncertain flexible job, they want to build their future. there are too many handy harry's in the temporary employment sector who make their money by making false claims on the backs of workers and society. we need a level playing field between the employment agencies. and we need to protect the temporary workers. the endless chain of subcontracting, whereby everyone shifts responsibility away from himself, must come to an end: those chains need to be cut. we have all seen, after all, how, in the past year, migrant workers have become sick in large numbers in the meat industry, the distribution centres and in agriculture and horticulture, for example. i would say: enough is enough! let us fight the crisis honestly with binding social targets, so that everyone can be sure of higher minimum wages, of secure contracts and of affordable housing.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteur, agnes jongerius, and also the shadow rapporteurs for their extremely constructive and trusting and consensus-based cooperation. the result we obtained last month in the social affairs committee for our report is, i believe, the fruit of this constructive and consensus-based cooperation, because we obtained a large majority for our report. a majority, which i say is encouraging for the vote we are having this week on this very difficult and ambitious report. this report is intended to build a bridge to what - and agnes has pointed this out - we have on the social agenda for next year. on the one hand, there will be the action plan of nicolas schmit for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, and we will have the social summit in porto, as a follow-up to the social summit in gothenburg. these are two very important events. that is the essence of this report, because agnes jongerius and i said from the outset that we as a parliament must send a strong signal to that effect. we cannot simply wait for the commission to propose something, but we as a parliament want to articulate and write down our own demands, and i think there are some courageous things in this: that we stand up and say we want almost analogous to a lisbon strategy a porto strategy, by saying: clear, measurable, ambitious objectives also in social policy. i want to make it clear that setting these objectives does not mean that we will in future demand central competences for the european union in each of these policy areas. but we don't have that in other places either, and yet we set ambitious goals. and if some of my colleagues have said to me in the last few days: 'dennis, how can you set a target of, for example, reducing youth unemployment by 50% by 2030 - we have no competence for that - then i can only say that if we limit ourselves in this house to what is our core competence, then we can do without a lot of things. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat youth unemployment, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step. that is why we are here, that is why we are making policy, and that is why we have included these things in the report. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the proposal is now on the table. we shall be starting work on this very shortly, and we have already made ourselves known. it is also necessary to say that the proposal on the table is not a centralistic proposal for a single wage, but one which really touches the heart of the treaties, namely the question of the social market economy and the question of collective bargaining. we are gathered here in this plenary hall to applaud the everyday heroes of the corona crisis. how silly. i did not participate because my motivation is not to applaud people in the plenary hall, but to make people's working lives better, to contribute to the fact that participation can be organized, that people can live from their work, that we have fair and equitable wages. i believe that the report we have just put forward, which we are putting to the vote, can make an important contribution to making europe more social and to putting the debate on a more social europe at the heart of european politics in the future. i therefore wholeheartedly call for this report to be adopted.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the report this house has just presented so eloquently. the current times are calling for bold and strong social europe and i’m very grateful that parliament has taken the initiative to prepare a very comprehensive, ambitious and concrete resolution. we are facing a crisis of unprecedented scale with massive social consequences. we could preserve jobs and income with our support for a short-time work-schemes culture, yet six million jobs have been lost and we are losing human capital and this impairs our potential for growth in the medium-term. certain groups are hit disproportionately: women and young people, but also self—employed people. many never thought they would one day fall into poverty. now they are queuing up for food aid. inequalities are deepening further. low-skilled and low-paid workers, but also temporary workers, were the first ones laid off. we have millions of children and young people whose life prospects have worsened. against this background, strong and coordinated action at european and national level is needed. the commission has committed to presenting an action plan to implement the european pillar of social rights and its political guidelines, and we will do so early next year. eleven months ago we launched a wide consultation reaching a great number of stakeholders across europe and which delivered thousands of contributions. this shows how the pillar contains key political goals that citizens want to see implemented. with the current crisis, implementation of the social pillar is even more needed. if anything, the pandemic has shown the importance of resilient health and social protection systems. the european pillar of social rights is a key tool to accompany our recovery efforts in the short and medium-term. the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated existing trends. this is why we need to take decisive action to tackle the socioeconomic consequences of this crisis, as well as to face long—term challenges. we need to support people and our workforce through the green and digital transitions. we are simply not sufficiently equipped today for tomorrow’s labour market, economy and society. employment is key. we have to support job creation, taking full advantage of the ongoing transitions and the renewed industrial strategy, ease job transitions based on skilling, re- and up—skilling, and enhance actively labour market policies and help young people enter the labour market. we have to create more convergence between and within member states. europe must be the same promise of equal opportunities and social progress for everyone. this means reassessing the value of work, a concept president von der leyen mentioned in her first speech to this parliament, and ensuring decent working and living conditions. we have to adapt our social welfare states to the digital age. we have to find the right balance between an innovative economy, led by technological process, the key of our european social model, and modern, inclusive and sustainable social protection systems, and we have to invest in our social resilience. this virus painfully underlines the vulnerability of many sectors, like education and healthcare. therefore our action plan should define shared objectives at eu level and put forward concrete actions delivering the priorities of the social pillar, ensuring equal opportunities and access to the labour market for all, supporting for working conditions and strengthening social protection and inclusion. we are giving full consideration to your call, as to that of other stakeholders, for setting strategic, social and employment targets. we share a common understanding that the implementation of the social pillar and the resilience and recovery plans should complement each other. we have to build a future in a sustainable way, in an innovative way, but also in a fair and inclusive way. this is fundamental if we want to put people at the centre. we are also looking at how to improve our monitoring of the implementation of the social pillar, including the social scoreboard, and how countries coordinate implementation of the pillar at national level. the commission’s action plan must pave the way at european level, but we will only reach our common destination if member states, regions and local authorities turn commitment into action. we will only get there if social partners and civil society organisations do their part, and europe must be there to support them. finally, the adoption of the social pillar action plan will be a very important step in view of the social summit which will take place in porto in may 2021. the commission’s social agenda has only gained in importance. we have already come forward with ambitious proposals on youth employment, on skills, on fair minimum wages, and you can count on us to continue to deliver on our child guarantee, on platform workers, on the social economy. your strategic resolution will be crucial to feed into the preparations of our action plan. this action plan will not land in a vacuum. it must give direction to our recovery strategy and it must be plugged into the commission’s overarching 2030 growth strategy for a green and digital transformation.
this item is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday 16 december 2020 and the final vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2020. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. mr president, the european union was first and foremost created as a project of peace and as a means of improving the legal and social status of european citizens. the common social policy contributes to this objective and is a necessity in europe. we must have common european guidelines on the basic issues of the pillar of social rights, such as the right to health care, women's rights, sexual health and unemployment protection, to which all member states must commit themselves. it is important that we continue to work on the common european health policy, on better protection for unemployed people and on improving workers' rights.
the following is a brief presentation of the report by pascal durand on sustainable corporate governance (2020/2137 (ini)) (a9-0240/2020).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, what better transition could we have to talk about sustainable governance and non-financial reporting than the report just mentioned and your speech and that of my colleagues on a more social europe and on social integration? because in these files, which may appear to be technical, we are at the heart of what is eminently political - political in the noble sense of the word: because it concerns our vision, the vision we want to build for our european union. the vision of whether we want, in extra-financial matters, to have our standards imposed on us from outside, by the united states, china or i do not know what other power, or whether we want, on the contrary, to remain masters in a logic of independence and sovereignty. the challenge of this extra-financial reporting, of this new corporate governance, is to remain in control of our economic, environmental and social model. what is our ambition? what is our commitment to actually building a world that is more sustainable, more sustainable, more livable for all people? without going into too much detail - obviously too technical - we must look at the situation as it is. we are in a time when companies - for reasons which are not for us to elaborate here, but which are a reality - are faced with very short-term challenges. they are based on the need to develop short-term profits, to try to compensate for the financialisation of our society. they are forced to face a logic which is a logic which destroys a medium and long-term vision of the enterprise. we need to rebalance: that is the purpose of our standards. it is not about damaging the corporate world, quite the opposite. it is about trying to create real value and value that persists over time, value that does not cause dividends to grow by 1 to 4% over 20 years, while research and investment decline by almost the same proportion. we are obliged to think about this future and to build it together. so we have objectives, objectives that the union has set itself, with the taxonomy, with these environmental standards, these social standards that make it a model and an island on this entire planet. we must now bring this balance between the environment, the social, the human and the economic, which we have always carried and which we must continue to defend, into the 21st century. so, yes, we have goals. mrs von der leyen and this parliament have recalled the objectives of the green deal. well, to get this green deal done, we need all of you. we need investments, we need companies, we need employees, we need stakeholders. that's what we all have to achieve together. and for that, the non-financial reporting must be clear. we have to have one standard, we have 1,500 of them now, because these standards are not set in a legal framework. so i'll say it again, and i'll end on that, because it's really the heart of it: what do we want to build together? if we want a market, if we want to ensure that arbitrariness does not dominate and that it is not simply the law of the strongest, then we must set standards that are extremely clear. we need clear reporting, we need independent audits, we need governance that respects both employees, gender equality, the long term, that takes into account the whole range of human, environmental and, i repeat, social conditions that confront us in the 21st century. this is the ambition we are all striving for in this report, and i hope it will pave the way for the commission in the context of the reform of the directives it is due to present at the beginning of 2021.
member of the commission. – mr president, first the commission thanks the rapporteur, mr durand, and the committee on legal affairs for their work on this important file and for the proposals. the commission shares the objective of fostering long-term corporate behaviour towards the sustainability transition. as announced in its 2021 work programme, the commission intends to propose next year the revision of the non-financial reporting directive and a legislative initiative on sustainable corporate governance. to prepare this initiative, the commission has commissioned studies which show that there is a trend in the last 30 years for listed companies within the eu to focus mainly on short-term benefits of shareholders rather than on the long-term interests of the company. this affects long-term resilience, sustainability and performance. designing time horizons of corporate decision-making that are more long-term and promoting corporate governance that is more conducive to sustainability would contribute to companies’ resilience and performance. we welcome the fact that the report by mr durand targets exactly these matters. the report calls on the commission to ensure that directors’ duties should not focus mainly on the short-term maximisation of shareholder value. these duties must pay sufficient attention to the long-term interests of the company and wider society, as well as those of employees and other relevant stakeholders. companies that integrate stakeholder interests outperform others in the current crisis. as shown by a wide number of studies, such companies have better performance in the long run. the report by mr durand considers that company directors have a duty to address sustainability risks and impacts arising from their operations and supply chains. it also asks that sustainability strategies should include time-bound and science-based targets aligned with the eu’s international commitments. this includes in particular the paris agreement and the convention on biological diversity and on deforestation. the commission will examine the possible impact of such rules as part of the impact assessment of the forthcoming legislative initiative on sustainable corporate governance. furthermore, just as the report rightly pays attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, the commission will also duly consider ways to cater for smes. we are looking into possible regulatory requirements which take into account the size of the company, as well as whether it is involved in a sector with a high sustainability risk. smes could also be supported with adequate tools and funding. with regard to parliament’s suggestions on the non-financial reporting directive, the commission included the revision of these rules as part of its work programme for next year. we agree to the aim to be consistent with other relevant eu legislation, including the taxonomy regulation and the sustainable finance disclosure regulation. we also agree that it will be necessary to bring additional categories of companies under the scope of the legislation, and that reported sustainability information should be subject to audits. we believe it will be necessary to require companies to use mandatory european sustainability-reporting standards. that is why the commission has given a mandate to the european financial reporting advisory group to carry out preparatory work for the development of such standards. next to working on european standards, we will also try to ensure progress towards greater alignment of standards at the global level. the commission also looks forward to the european parliament’s upcoming report by ms wolters on corporate due diligence and accountability. resilient and sustainable supply chains are key for european companies’ long-term competitiveness and viability. due diligence is also essential to mitigate the adverse impacts of european production in third countries, where the biggest bulk of adverse impacts materialise. let me conclude by reiterating that the commission’s priorities are clear: we need to deliver on the sustainability transition and the recovery, which is a very good opportunity for that. it is therefore key to help businesses in the way they operate, towards a transformation to a more sustainable economy. allow me just to quote mark carney, the former governor of the bank of england and now the un special envoy for climate action and finance. he said recently: ‘we have to work for a new basic social contract ensuring fairness across generations.’
i thank commissioner nicolas schmit for his very inspiring speeches. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday 16 december 2020 and the final vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2020. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. today we are witnessing trends in which the achievement of economic objectives by enterprises is gradually linked to objectives that are not traditional for them: the fight against climate change, the overcoming of social problems, sustainable development in general. that's why i think it's important to help businesses make the transition to a sustainable economy. it's time to create a new business culture. by promoting it, we will support the process that should guide businesses on the path to sustainable corporate governance. it brings added value to society, but also to the companies themselves, as companies that have embarked on the path of sustainable corporate governance are more productive and more resilient. in the midst of the covid pandemic and the crisis that has increased the risks for businesses, our efforts to protect european businesses are of paramount importance, without, of course, sacrificing the rights of workers and shareholders. europe-wide action is needed in this direction. however, they should in no case lead to the imposition of excessive burdens on smes. we need to take a balanced approach to changes in company law, taking into account economic as well as social and environmental factors. this will encourage the integration of sustainability policies into corporate decision-making.
the following is the agenda for the joint debate on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for a second reading on the council's position at first reading on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of water intended for human consumption (recast) (06230/3/2020) (c9354/2020) (cod) (rapporteur: christophe hansen) (a9-0241/2020), on the question to be answered orally to the council by mr christophe hansen, ms sara cerdas, mr nicolae ştefănuţăn, mr marco dreoston, mr martin häusling, ms joanna kopcińska, ms malin björk and ms eleonora evin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of eu water legislation (o-000077/2020 b9-0501/20) (2020/2613 ((rsp)) and on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and the kingdom of norway on the participation of norway in the community programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ' (com (2015) 0369);
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for coming, commissioner. it is also a great honour to speak from this seat, because it is now almost a full year since we worked out a compromise with the council. mr eickhout and mrs müller were also present, this was a night shift with the finnish presidency of the council. but it was important that we finally got this modernization of the drinking water directive, which had been on its heels for twenty years. but we also took on board a number of things, such as the first european citizens' initiative, which collected the necessary over a million signatures. for example, we have included a new article 13 on access to water, which is intended to help in particular our most vulnerable groups without a fixed place of residence to have access to water. we have therefore called on the member states to finally make drinking water sources available in public places and public buildings, so as to give these groups of society a chance. but we also increased transparency. we want information about the price of water to be more accessible to consumers, but also about the quality of water, because trust in drinking water will also lead to less plastic, more drinking water, and that benefits us in many ways. we also took into account the challenges, requirements and recommendations of the world health organisation and adjusted various limit values. for example, we have stricter limits on lead. but we have also gone beyond that to finally examine new pollutants, such as endocrine disruptors, in particular bisphenol a, and also microplastics, which were not yet covered by the old directive. and then, of course, in times of climate change, we also talk about the consequences of climate change: drought. so it was irresponsible for us to leave things out. the council would have liked to have done that, for example, when it comes to the loss of the pipes. many of our piping systems in europe are very, very old and have a leakage rate that can be as high as 70% in some member states. so it was very important that we address this problem as well. i mentioned the trust in drinking water. why is it important that people know how high-quality our water is? when people drink tap water, they have to be aware that drinking water, especially bottled water, will require up to a thousand times more energy to transport that water. that means we're also reducing the plastic waste that's generated by bottles. we actually laid the foundation for the green deal here before the green deal was even on the table. i think this is something that we as a parliament have also done our part to help to increase ambition. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this. but today we also have a resolution and a request for an oral answer to the commission on water policy in general. we have just been discussing stricter measures and stricter criteria for drinking water. it is also important that we do not rely too much on cleaning processes and other cleaning methods. we need to protect our water sources better. it was therefore important, and it is important, that the water framework directive be properly implemented by the member states. the problem is that we have the commission's evaluation, we have taken note of it. it is noted that this framework of our european water regulation is actually fit for purpose, but that implementation in the member states is often either underfunded or simply too far removed from reality to have our waters in good ecological, chemical condition by 2027 - that is the goal. we must also note that more than half of our surface waters are still in poor condition. freshwater stocks have declined by 83% since 1970. here's the link to the green deal, and we definitely need to address it. european wetlands are natural carbon sinks, and these too have declined by 50% since 1970. in our resolution we called on the member states and the various sectors involved - agriculture, energy and industry - to take part in this. we have therefore strengthened the polluter pays principle. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have worked constructively with us. we have forged 34 compromises out of 359 amendments, which have been supported by all the political groups. we have, of course, minor differences between colleagues in how we interpret this. but i think there is a great deal of agreement here in parliament, and i would like to thank all the colleagues involved for that.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you so much for having me. it's good to be back. i'm very honored. and it is a particular pleasure to be able to speak to you again in the european parliament, probably for the last time this week. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the subject of water has been a highly controversial and sensitive subject in the european union for over 20 years now. but we certainly agree - no matter where we stand politically and what institution we represent - that clean, healthy water is the most important foundation for a good life and that it must be our common goal that we work to ensure that all people in the european union and, of course, globally, have free access to clean water. the european parliament and the council have adopted two very important acts on water this year, and i would like to recall that. and it also makes clear that we are trying to live up to our responsibility. the commission has also adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of drinking water, including the water reuse regulation in may 2020 and, most recently, the recast of the drinking water directive in december 2020. yes, we are still a long way from our common goal of clean rivers, clean lakes and all that. the council expressly welcomes the commission's report on the adequacy assessment of eu water legislation and the main conclusions contained therein. the water legislation has so far largely served its purpose. but, ladies and gentlemen, there are of course still considerable areas for improvement, and i shall deal with the most important points very briefly: these are the right investments. this is the practical implementation in the member states and the regions, but also at the local level. this is the integration of water into other policies: transport, agriculture - agriculture alone accounts for 33% of water consumption, and a significant burden on our water comes not least from the agricultural sector. it is therefore important that we look at these different sectors and ask each sector what responsibility it has to achieve the goal of cleaner water. and then, of course, there is the chemical pollution, and we are faced with entirely new tests. but it is also about the administrative agreement and not least about digitisation. the commission has put forward important proposals here and i look forward to having a very intensive debate on this in the council. the environment council already had a first discussion on the report on 5 march this year and i would also like to reassure you that all member states are determined to adopt the commission's recommendations in the development of their next river basin management plans and flood risk management plans. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take our word on that. as regards other measures to combat chemical pollution, the recast of the drinking water directive establishes a system of watchlists for the monitoring of emerging substances. and then you know: things have changed dramatically. we didn't have to talk about this 20 years ago. these are called endocrine disruptors, or hormone stress. it's about the drug burden. or a very big issue, not just in rivers and lakes, but especially in the oceans, is microplastics. we are also called upon to respond quickly to these new tests and new pressures. the council also looked forward to the publication of the commission's proposals for updating the lists of chemical pollutants affecting surface and groundwater. we look forward to a very intensive exchange there as well. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to send a clear message to all of you: the council is serious about promoting a sustainable water management policy which respects our common environmental objectives and contributes to the objective of a clean environment set out in the european green deal. and we must all share this responsibility.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission very much appreciates the european parliament’s support and interest in water policies. let me thank you for your work on this file and for the strong support for the important resolution which you will adopt following today’s debate. the european union has every reason to be proud of its water acquis. it has halted water deterioration, brought unprecedented governance to transboundary water management and laid the foundations to deliver on the human right to water. nevertheless, four major crises threaten our waters: the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis, the pollution crisis, the resources crisis, and, on top of that, we now have the covid crisis as well. business as usual is not an option. i can assure this house of the commission’s commitment to supporting member states in their efforts to step up implementation of the water directives. when we received their legislation in a comprehensive fitness check, we found it broadly fit for purpose with some room for improvement. at this stage, we see no need to revise the water framework directive beyond updating the lists of surface and groundwater pollutants to align them with science. the year 2027 is the final deadline to achieve good status for surface and groundwaters. the next river basin management plans, covering the 2021—2027 period, will be critical in this respect. the commission is working closely with the member states through the common implementation strategy, peer—to—peer assistance, the life programme and various research projects. you ask for effective compliance. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission will continue to act with determination to enforce the directives. we have announced a set of eu pilots based on the country—specific gaps identified in the fitness check and in the second river basin management plans, and we will not hesitate to use the infringement procedure, should this prove necessary. under the green deal, we have presented a revision of the aarhus mechanism to improve access to justice. we need enforcement to work better at national level too. policy coherence is key. we cannot fight pollution with one hand and do harm with the other. this brings me to the importance of the green deal and the integrated and coordinated solutions it offers for crises that are complex and interlinked. water is a recurring theme in the green deal initiatives. the circular economy action plan features water efficiency and reuse. the biodiversity strategy includes the restoration of rivers and wetlands. the farm to fork strategy covers nutrients, pesticides and eco—schemes, and forthcoming initiatives like the climate adaptation strategy and the zero pollution action plan reserve a special place for water. i’d like, therefore, to ask the honourable members to make sure that this coordinated approach is maintained here in parliament as well when processing the different elements of the green deal. you have repeatedly called for more harmonised criteria on pollution thresholds, more action on pollutants of emerging concern and better information. we therefore very much welcome the formal adoption of the recast of the drinking water directive this week. this revamped piece of eu water law on which we managed to find an agreement in trilogues almost exactly one year ago was a precursor of the european green deal. now it is making a concrete contribution to climate change, the circular economy, zero pollution for a toxic—free environment, and thus to biodiversity as well. next year, the commission will present the zero pollution action plan, the first integrated eu framework to holistically tackle and inform policymakers and the general public on pollution of air, water and soil. we are already at work on many of its components. we are updating the legislation on environmental quality standards for both surface and groundwaters and revising both the industrial emissions directive and the urban waste water treatment directive in continuous coordination with the scientific community and stakeholders. our aim is to become collectively better equipped in tackling pollution at source and its key pathways. in doing so, we will factor in the lessons learned from the covid—19 crisis to make better use of water surveillance with a view to becoming better prepared and more resilient. to finish, a word on financing. member states’ efforts to draft the third river basin management plans coincide with the imminent adoption of the reinforced multiannual financial framework and the next generation eu instrument. the oecd estimates the european union’s needs for water supply and sanitation at around eur 289 billion for the next 10 years. we have to become fairer and better apply the laws so that the burden to pay is put on all water users and those who pollute it at its source. to conclude, it will be important to be generous with our rivers. if we restore them to health, they are sure to return the favour.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the right to safe water and sanitation is a human right. still 1 million people in europe have no access to water and 8 million have no sanitation today. this is cause for grave concern and must be a wake-up call for all decision-makers across europe. we as politicians have a responsibility to ensure that all people in europe have access to safe and healthy water to drink, and we must also make sure that the eu’s water legislation contains sufficient environmental standards. later today, we will finally adopt the final agreement on the drinking water directive after many years of revision. it is a welcome modernisation of this important legislation. we are improving access to water for all, in particular for vulnerable groups in our society, and the new rules also mean that we will use better parameters for assessing the quality of drinking water, with tougher thresholds for a number of chemicals as well as the watch-list for pollutants such as microplastics and pharmaceuticals. we are ensuring that tap water across europe is safe to drink and taking a welcome step towards realising the human right to water in europe. eu water legislation needs to be foolproof and protect the health of people and the environment. the water framework directive is especially important in this regard and i welcome the fact that we will vote on this resolution later this week. it is very worrying that member states are not adhering to the framework directive and are not implementing the rules the way they should. unless there is a big improvement here, the union will not reach its the objectives under the framework directive by the deadline of 2027. half of the water bodies in eu have still not attained good status, and good chemical status has been achieved only for about a third of the surface waters. the solution to this is not to dilute the directive, of course. europe should not lower its environmental ambitions, especially in the light of the green deal and the important role that clean water bodies with healthy ecosystems play for nature, our society and the climate. what we need here is better solutions for improving this implementation.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a saying, "good things come to those who wait". unfortunately, since the conclusion of the trilogue due to the corona crisis, we have taken longer to adopt the new drinking water directive. in fact, there is much to be said for her. the commission's proposal was a response to the first successful citizens' initiative. the directive is thus a pawn in european citizen participation. the directive will not only improve consumer information in the future. the updating of health-related limit values, the creation of a watch list for emerging pollutants, the ambitious rules for old lead pipes and the harmonised regulation of drinking water contact materials will also improve the protection of consumer health. all this builds confidence in the high quality of europe's drinking water. by implementing the risk-based approach, we will be able to tackle pollution at source in the future. here parliament was able to establish that prevention must come before containment. this is a major step forward in the protection of our waters and our natural drinking water resources. i am particularly concerned about the many small municipal water suppliers and cooperatives who have to work with the directive in practice. i am therefore glad that in the negotiations with the council and the commission we were able to resolve many of the problems of detail in order to ensure the practicability of the day-to-day business of the water suppliers. i would like to take this opportunity to thank rapporteur christophe hansen and our shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. today is a really good day for consumers in europe and a good day for the environment. the new eu drinking water directive will bring about crucial improvements in clean, healthy and better drinking water. we owe it to the citizens who signed the european citizens' initiative 'right to water' 1.8 million times. and it was this citizen initiative that drove us all to hunt. the eu commission has therefore presented a new drinking water directive. that is why the european parliament has strengthened the proposals. the council of ministers has therefore finally agreed to at least some of the proposals. it is simply a correct and important sign that in the future hormone-altering substances will be controlled and restricted and that bisphenol a, which is also suspected of causing serious harm, especially in children, is now given a european limit value. just like regulating drug residues and microplastics. that we are now on an easier path to identify new dangerous substances and regulate them throughout europe through a watch list. we have succeeded in continuing a success story, because the old eu drinking water directive has already strengthened confidence in drinking water as a good food throughout europe. but now we are going one step further, because on the initiative of the european parliament, public drinking water dispensers are now being set up all over europe. and instead of buying plastic bottles from somewhere and buying water in environmentally harmful packaging, people can fill their own bottles, and so some of the harmful noise with a lot of added sugar may be avoided. and the european parliament, by the way, has been working very hard on this - and my colleague, heidi hautala, who is running this - to ensure that thousands of plastic bottles have been removed from parliament itself and replaced by drinking water dispensers. it took years of work in the bureau of this parliament, but now it is time: in the european parliament you can already experience once corona is over again what we want everywhere on the streets. now, i have one final note: we have another element of european water law, the eu water framework directive. in fact, it should be implemented since 2015 that all water systems are in good natural state. i ask michael roth, for the presidency of the council of the european union: when will you make this a reality on our rivers and waters? i look forward to an answer today, mr roth.
the directive is a real guide to further commercialisation of water, and your slogan on universal access has no impact on the people. the basis of the european union's and governments' strategy is not only the purchase of state-owned enterprises by private individuals, but also the operation of state or municipal water companies on a private-economic basis, regardless of whether or not private individuals participate in them. let 's be clear: the commission's proposal is to recover the costs of water services together with the social consequences of the recovery, as you say; in two words: 'water is a commodity and the people pay for the damaged'. this is evidenced by the two thousand water supply interruptions a week to working class households in athens alone amidst a pandemic. we demand: no further privatisation of eydap and eyath, no increase in tariffs, no cutting of water supply to the people's households. only through a socialised economy where land, water resources, networks, infrastructure are social property and not commodities, can adequate and cheap water supply and environmental protection be achieved.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, scientific evidence shows that water, also because of climate change, is becoming increasingly scarce, putting human well-being, biodiversity and ecosystems at risk. to counter this trend, it is first necessary to implement policies at european level to increase efficient use of water while ensuring access to safe drinking water for all. the drinking water directive, which we are finally adopting today thanks also to the action taken by european citizens, has this twofold objective: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. this is an important step forward, but as the green deal highlights, we need to go further, to put in place a global strategy that focuses not only on the efficient use of water resources, but also on the objective of water quality and therefore zero pollution for water, but also for air and soil. attention to the water resource, which is the source of life, is fundamental. on the one hand, we need to achieve good ecological status of european water bodies and full implementation of the water framework directive to preserve and restore biodiversity in lakes, rivers, wetlands and estuaries and prevent and limit flood damage. on the other hand, the new measures will have to address the negative effects of urban runoff and new or particularly harmful sources of pollution, such as microplastics and pharmaceutical residues. the revision of the other important directive on water resources, the urban waste water directive, will also be a fundamental step towards defining the parameters of new pollutants and strengthening the measures for circularity and nutrient recovery, in line with what has already been done with the regulation on water reuse. water is a precious, essential commodity, a pillar of human well-being, biodiversity and our economy. climate change will present us with ever-increasing challenges that we will need to be able to anticipate, as we are doing in europe today.
madam president, commissioner, because of climate change, water is increasingly scarce for people, plants and animals. in recent summers we've seen rivers dry up more and more and land become arid, barren, arid. water is disappearing from the soils of oltenia and dobrogea, regions of my country. in several european countries we bring water by tank every summer so that people have the strict necessities. there is no european green infrastructure without a european blue natural infrastructure. the european commission is very clear, we are not yet where we want to be with the water directive. we have too many exceptions and too little investment, too much pollution and too little accountability. yes, hydropower can be green, but it's not when it endangers people and nature. europe's rivers are choked by micro-hydroelectric plants that produce little energy. because of them, white people are being destroyed in the name of getting so-called "green energy". let's be careful that the inflation of micro-hydroelectric plants, of river construction in protected areas, doesn't cost more than the electricity they produce. this means that authorities do not have the dual role of verifying, managing and collecting revenues from activities that deteriorate the chemical status of water. i really want my country to be a leader in the fight against climate change, to see the european green deal as a great opportunity, as it is. but then, in watersheds, we need to see more than a funding source. water is life itself. a truth that is obvious in nature, but seems to be forgotten by humans.
mr president, after a year of many uncertainties and fears, the european parliament's vote on the transitional regulation is exactly the breath of fresh air the farmer needed. because he now knows that by 2023, when it's implemented in the new cap reform, it will receive its subsidies, continue its investments and allow it to prepare for the green revolution in agriculture. this regulation is also revolutionary, bringing innovations such as the doubling of premiums for the installation of the young farmer, from 50 to 100 thousand euros, or the supplementation of the budget for agriculture with money from the recovery and resilience fund, aid available as of 1 january 2021 and financed 100% from european money. in addition, the extension of the essential transitional national aid to certain states, including romania, was approved. i therefore thank my colleagues who have given hope back to our farmers by their work on these dossiers.
mr president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, elsie katainen, and the entire negotiating team of the european parliament on the intensified work on the regulation on the transitional rules of the common agricultural policy. despite the emergency situation caused by covid, i congratulate you for showing steadfastness and defending the interests of european farmers in the framework of the trials held. we're giving the green light for today's vote in the plenary so that the transitional rules will take effect on january 1, 2021. this ensures in practice predictability in the operation and continuity of payments to farmers until the entry into force of the new cap regulations. i am pleased that, with our joint efforts, we have been able to maintain transitional national aid during the transition period and to continue support for disadvantaged areas with natural constraints. these instruments are extremely important for countries like bulgaria, as they support the most vulnerable groups of farmers. a very important development in recent months has been the additional €8 billion for rural development under the recovery plan. i am pleased that we have been able to protect these funds under the transitional regulation and that they will be available to farmers in 2021 and 2022 to overcome the negative impact that the pandemic has had on their operations.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! when the commission of president von der leyen was set up over a year ago, when i was also a candidate for commissioner, we had one great uncertainty: we did not know what to do with the multiannual financial framework, what to do with the budget for the common agricultural policy - which was presented in a very limited version - we did not know what to do with the reform of the common agricultural policy, we did not know what to do with the transition period. and then there was the crisis, which affected the whole eu economy and hit agriculture hard. in this crisis, our farmers have provided us with food security, and we have to thank them for that. it's a great, great achievement that the food supply hasn't been interrupted. the farmers have given us food security. we as politicians, as the political and legislative institutions of the european union, must ensure economic security for our farmers and we are a few steps further along the way. and i wanted to say thank you very much, because what we are finalizing today - the transitional regulation - is part of a broader package of actions that we are taking together. the fact that we can now give our farmers this clarity on the transition period is the result of very good cooperation with the committee on agriculture. i just wanted to say thank you. i thanked the rapporteur, mrs katainen, but i also thank the coordinators with whom i have met many times during our work together: mr dorfmann, mr de castro, mrs müller, mr häusling, mr david, mr kuzmiuk, mr flanagan. this constant and constructive cooperation has helped. today we have a much better budget, €22 billion more than was planned two years ago. today we have clarity on the future multiannual financial framework. today we know that there is a reconstruction plan, part of which has already been transferred to the rural development fund. but i'm also deeply convinced that there will be a greater synergy between the politicians. and rural areas are not only expenditure under the common agricultural policy, but also increased expenditure under the reconstruction fund for various measures relating to agriculture, for the reconstruction of the agricultural processing industry for example, but also the cohesion fund, which should be devoted more to rural areas as well. we're a few steps ahead on all these issues, and i just wanted to thank you again for that. we are giving farmers much more certainty about their future and i firmly believe that what is currently under way, namely the tripartite negotiations and the final shape of the reform of the common agricultural policy, is also a process on the right track. i thank the european parliament once again for this very constructive cooperation in all these areas and for the fact that we can today, after this first year of the commission's work, give our farmers more of this good hope for the future in this very difficult period. i thank the president-in-office, mrs von der leyen, and myself for the kind words you have spoken to the commission in this debate. i believe we are taking a very important step.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. – the legal certainty for our farmers is essential and the support for farmers and agri-food producers, through direct payments, market measures and rural development, needs to continue without interruption during the smooth transition to the new cap reform. on the same time, i regret that we did not achieve the full external convergence of direct payments for our farmers and that is why the continuation of transitional national aid is essential as will allow member states to compensate partially the differences in payments. this year, the current coronavirus pandemic hardly hit our economies and our farmers and during summer, countries from the eastern europe have experienced a severe drought that had destroyed important agricultural harvest. the farmers and rural economies have to recover after the crisis and the funds from the european recovery instruments needs to be available immediately for our farmers through their integration into rural development programmes for the next two years. moreover, the exceptional rural development measure adopted in the context of coronavirus crisis has allowed member states to support the agricultural producers and as the current crisis continues, i welcome the extension of this exceptional crisis measure for additional six months.
madam president, mr high representative, five of the six eastern partnership countries have more or less frozen conflicts and russian federation troops on their own territory. the inefficiency of international negotiation forms gave the separatists time to consolidate their illegal statehood, and the russian federation time to strengthen its military presence on the borders of the european union and nato. looking at the map of the region, we see that the russian federation has created through frozen conflicts an arc of offensive military resources around the black sea. we dream of strategic autonomy, but we tolerate russian aggression on our borders. the eastern partnership will not bear fruit unless we do three things: 1. through diplomatic action, to acquire the legitimate right to be part of all negotiation formats of frozen conflicts; 2. military strengthening of the eastern flank by deploying european union troops to the eastern border and 3. a solid partnership with nato to regain the military balance in the black sea. these things will ensure stability in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. the situation in belarus continues to be dramatic. despite the efforts of the european union and other political actors involved, president alexander lukashenko continues the crackdown on protesters, and there is fear among the population that, in desperation, the belarusian dictator will allow russia to become actively involved. the situation remains extremely tense in nagorno-karabakh, where the azerbaijani regime is accused of violating the ceasefire and humanitarian efforts are impeded. the eu will therefore have to reconsider its approach in the region, to stop allowing governments involved in open conflict to violate the principles and shared values of this partnership. we also need to keep our promise, and therefore the eu needs to be more actively involved in finding solutions for long-term peace, stability and security.
mr president, vocational training is unfortunately often seen as a second-rate option for young people who opt for it on the basis of poor school performance. and it doesn't have to be that way. training, if properly undertaken, such as dual training, can become a desirable option for employment. this is why it is necessary to make it more attractive, to introduce innovative teaching methods and to improve school equipment. it is also very important to gradually shape society's perception of the benefits of vocational training. secondly, it is crucial to find ways in which training can adapt quickly and flexibly to changes in the labour market, whether sudden, such as during the current pandemic, or arising from technological or societal developments. further, i believe that such training should really be for everyone. however, to do this, we need not only to declare the removal of barriers to education, but also to think about better access to digital tools, strengthening digital skills, debarriering the environment and improving the overall public perception of the vocational opportunities of vulnerable people, whether they are people with disabilities or people from disadvantaged backgrounds. finally, i would like to mention one aspect that i find lacking in the recommendations, which concerns the acquisition of skills outside formal education structures. for example, many people gain invaluable skills in caregiving that are not formally recognized. the new vocational education and training system should therefore respond flexibly to such situations and link also informally acquired skills with their formal recognition.
mr president, it is good that we are talking about vocational training tonight and that we are getting back the doctor-craftsman we used to know. for too long vocational education has had a bad image because - and i am one of them - parents wanted their children to go to school, to be academically trained and to get a job in an office, and then there was no training of young people in a real profession, at least a real profession with the hands and with the mind, to strengthen our economy. the image of craftsmen was that they had to work hard all the time in all weathers and were actually underpaid. i think that this has led to a shortage of skilled workers and that our economy is suffering as a result, because the economy in western europe cannot continue without migrant workers. i believe that we should campaign to make vocational training attractive again to young people. and that we should also start paying them more, which will improve the image. i propose that we re-introduce the master-and-companion system, which is what the guilds used to do, whereby young people learn from old and old people learn from young, and whereby we actually have the society we want again.
member of the commission. herr präsident, i would like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their ideas and contribution to the effective promotion of vocational training. i also welcome the adoption by your parliament of a resolution promoting this form of training. we all agree that, especially after this crisis, vocational training will become even more important. it will have to be open to new technologies, such as digitisation. it must keep pace with the evolution of our economy, since the evolution of our economy will see the emergence of new professions, but also of new skills needs. and i think that what the commission is trying to promote is the flexibility inherent in vocational training. i think that's one of the important points. the second point i would like to emphasize is the extension of this form of training, the extension to many professions. there is no longer - and there should no longer be - this opposition between academic training and vocational training. we need open systems, where we can move from one to the other. i think this is a very important aspect of the value of vocational training. you also stressed the attractiveness of vocational training, and wages are indeed one of the elements of this attractiveness. this is why it is important to have a framework for minimum wages, because if young people feel that they cannot earn a living by following vocational training courses, the attractiveness will not be assured. yes, the youth guarantee must be an instrument to guide, to orient young people towards vocational training, and that is its purpose. i believe that in europe we are faced with many young people who do not have a degree, who are not trained and who are likely to be the losers of the future economic evolution, the famous neets. i believe that vocational training can be an absolutely valuable way of giving these young people a second chance. and finally, on erasmus+ and the figure of 8% that has been noted for young people in vocational training who should have the chance to have a professional mobility: 8% is not enough. i believe that there are still too many barriers preventing young people in vocational training from accessing this professional mobility. i am committed here to working to remove these barriers to over 8% and to ensure that every young person in vocational training has the same rights, exactly the same rights, as those who are in university and can benefit from this mobility.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate has shown me that the institutions are also united on this central issue. i would also like to reassure you - also in view of the central competences in education policy which are in the hands of the member states or the regions - that we take the recommendations very, very seriously and that we are particularly aware of the european dimension of vocational training. we have tried to illustrate this by giving some very concrete examples, and i should like to thank you for that too. what do i take away from this debate? firstly, vocational training needs to be given more value. the central importance of the craft sector, which is an indispensable pillar of vocational training in many member states, has also been mentioned, irrespective of the form in which dual training is organized. a second message i'm bringing with me is inclusiveness and equity. the dual training must really be open to all, and it must also help to give people a second and a third chance, and to enable those who have failed or who have considerable difficulties to make their way as free members of our european societies. yes, and i also want to acknowledge that the european union is already making a considerable contribution, for example through the european social fund, to improving training and qualifications, especially for the disadvantaged. so it is always a question of adequate financial and organizational support. another message i take away from today's talk is that we also see new developments as opportunities and that we also take people's fears of change. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. of course, the members who have pointed out that it is not enough to simply hand a laptop or an ipad to a young person, a trainee, are right. that won't be enough. and the very last thing i want to specifically promote is the principle of learning from each other and with each other, without any prejudice. there are excellent examples in the european union which show that it is possible and that what we have now agreed in the recommendation can also be implemented everywhere. best practice is a great tool. i would like to thank you once again for this debate, which has once again underlined the importance of vocational training and the qualification of young people here in the european union.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the president of the commission the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday, 16 december 2020, the final vote on thursday, 17 december 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
we know that the impact of the pandemic on vocational education and training (vet) has been massive. in vet, digital teaching is even more difficult than in traditional education. in this context, vocational education and training is crucial to the maintenance of traditional european manufacturing sectors, which have long suffered from a shortage of skilled labour. vet deserves our full support and this oral question with the empl resolution is therefore very appropriate. last friday, the trialogue agreement on the erasmus programme after 2021 was concluded. it is excellent news for young people in the eu, students, vocational education and training students, teachers and professionals. the mobility of learners and workers in vocational education and training will continue to be massively supported in the eu. up to a fifth of the erasmus programme budget of eur 26 billion may be devoted to this. erasmus will also systematically support cooperation between centres of excellence in vocational education and training. the feedback i get from our national agency shows that european money invested in vet is among the most effectively invested in terms of concrete impacts. we must maintain and continue to promote this.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the expiry of the derogation for slaughterhouses provided for in regulation (eu) 2017/185 by norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000076/2020 b9-0030/20) (2020/2886(rsp)). i would like to remind all members of the rules - no spontaneous word messages, no blue cards, no switching from the liaison offices - which unfortunately have to be applied in the light of the corona situation.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am pleased to present to the commission the questionnaire submitted by the committee on agriculture and rural development on the end of the derogation for slaughterhouses provided for in regulation (eu) 2017/185. first of all, let me point out that there are certain slaughterhouses in the eu which are allowed to slaughter and process animals without complying with certain hygiene requirements. however, this concerns only a limited quantity of animals in the poultry and rabbit meat sector to market local and fresh meat to the final consumer or to retailers supplying directly to the final consumer. in order to meet the high consumer demand for these local products and to ensure better remuneration of local producers, short marketing cycles have been developed. i would point out that these practices go hand in hand with the commission's farm-to-fork strategy. the strategy calls on member states to move towards more sustainable production and consumption. in addition, short processing and production chains are required in response to growing societal demand and the preference for local production. i would also like to refer to this in order to explain to you the current complex legal framework which applies, among other things, to these slaughterhouses. the hygiene regulation lays down specific hygiene requirements for food of animal origin. by way of derogation from those rules, the commission provided that an exemption should apply to the direct supply of small quantities of poultry and rabbit meat slaughtered on the farm to the final consumer or to local retail establishments directly supplying the final consumer. however, this exemption will no longer be possible as from 1 january 2021, as the scheme will no longer apply from that date, so that the companies concerned will no longer be able to carry out this activity. this is a serious problem for certain member states, in particular but not exclusively the czech republic, finland, france, hungary and poland. these countries have already asked the commission to extend the derogation. the commission regrets, however, that it has confirmed the end date of the derogation. it stressed that the only way to continue this practice was to amend the hygiene regulation, which would require an ordinary legislative procedure. there is an urgent need to clarify which procedure should be introduced from 1 january 2021 in order to allow producers to continue their work. the committee on agriculture and rural development therefore asks the commission the following four questions. first, how does the commission intend to allow slaughterhouses operating under this derogation to process their products when the derogation ceases to apply on 1 january 2021? secondly, when does the commission intend to take action on this matter and what approach does it consider appropriate? thirdly, what new legal framework will the commission create to ensure a smooth transition for producers? fourthly and lastly, in view of the urgency of the question: when does the commission intend to present an amendment to regulation (ec) no 853/2004 which will allow producers to continue to supply the local markets directly with processed poultry and rabbit meat? we thank you in advance for answering the questions.
member of the commission. – mr president, the eu’s 2004 rules on the hygienic production of food aim to ensure a high level of food safety for consumers while remaining proportionate for producers. they provide the framework for all food produced for the eu market. when they were adopted, the co—legislators took account of small producers, notably, including the possibility to adapt hygiene rules for small local establishments and excluding certain on-farm practices from the scope of eu food hygiene requirements. in particular, the rules expressly exclude fresh meat from poultry and lagomorphs produced and slaughtered on—farm for direct supply to the final consumer or local retail establishments, as you just described. let me clarify. this will not change on 1 january 2021. farmers can continue to produce and sell this type of fresh meat without having to comply with eu hygiene rules, due to their comparatively low risk. however, the situation is different for meat preparations like raw sausages and meat products like pates manufactured from this fresh meat. while small producers could temporarily benefit from a similar derogation to that for fresh meat, it was subject to a transition period of nearly 16 years, which ends this year. this was foreseen to allow sufficient time for producers to adapt smoothly to the eu’s hygiene rules. last year, the european parliament and the council repealed the commission’s empowerment to lay down transitional measures, meaning a new transitional arrangement is no longer legally possible. this means that, from 2021 onwards, meat preparations and meat products from poultry and lagomorphs slaughtered on—farm must respect the eu’s food hygiene legislation. contacts with member states show that only a very limited number are concerned about the impact of ending the transitional measure for meat preparations and meat products. member states may of course use the possibilities provided for in the legislation to adapt national rules to eu requirements.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the question put on behalf of the committee on agriculture is a matter of concern to many slaughterhouses which, until now, have enjoyed a derogation allowing them to market products directly as a continuation of livestock farming. in these times of economic crisis, it is essential to defend this business model, which is synonymous with jobs and economic wealth. the sustainability of this derogation therefore represents a real challenge for some of our rural areas, which are at risk of being severely penalised, even though they are already in a very difficult situation. but beyond these economic considerations, these modes of production also find a particular resonance in the era of the green deal and the farm-to-table strategy, which call for us to encourage local circuits, also responding to a growing societal demand. that is why we are waiting for a response from the commission which is in the right direction, because the agricultural world is in great need of it.
the s&d group therefore welcomes the commission's proposal to amend the cap to include a new cap for the production of milk and milk products. that is why many of us found it incomprehensible that the commission did not extend the derogation for poultry and rabbit farmers so that they could sell their animals slaughtered on the farm in local markets and shops. i noted what the commissioner said a few minutes ago, but despite the insistence of seven member states - including romania - a procedure for reviewing the regulation has not even been initiated. there is a clear contradiction between the promised support to the small producer and the decisions taken in reality, especially since we are talking about a producer who was hit hard this year by the covid-19 measures that caused him losses he could not afford. i therefore ask the commission to put in place an emergency procedure to redress this injustice.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would remind the commission that we are working towards a coherent policy for the food chain. as part of the green deal, the commission has for the first time put forward a holistic approach to a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system in the farm-to-fork strategy. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in force are in line with the principles of the union interest as set out in article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is thus detrimental to many small businesses whose practices are already making important contributions to these objectives. in addition, the commission plans to allow a maximum of six animals to be slaughtered in a mobile slaughterhouse at the farm, and only in the presence of a veterinarian. why should there be more restrictive rules than in conventional slaughter in the slaughterhouse? the consistency and proportionality of the measures under the hygiene regulation with the objectives of the farm-to-fork strategy are mandatory. regional direct marketers, who have invested a lot of money and also slaughter without stress, are forced to stop here by arbitrariness. i would like to know if there is a case where these slaughters have caused a health hazard to consumers. that is why i am calling for the immediate extension of the transitional regulation. in the long term, we need a fair and practical regulatory framework.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not for many farms, direct marketing is the last chance to keep their farm running. for many of our consumers, the personal relationship with the farms from which they buy their food is taking on a new meaning. in the green deal, we try to minimize transportation routes. in the farm-to-fork strategy, we are trying to strengthen regional value chains and regional food supply. i cannot understand why this derogation should now be allowed to lapse, why these very companies which do exactly that - market regionally, short transport distances, no animal transport, no animal suffering - and meet the needs of our consumers should now be put in difficulty. that's not a policy that's consistent with what we do here. the commission is asking you to transpose this exception into regulated legislation and make it a permanent exception, because as we know, the problems are in slaughterhouses, in the big slaughterhouses at home, but not in the small farmers' direct marketers. there are no such problems in general. let our farmers continue to enjoy this livelihood.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. abroad? i'm sure you didn't. last week, eyes on animals released gruesome images of dutch calves being beheaded alive in slaughterhouses in libya and lebanon. what about europe? we also see in our own slaughterhouses how pigs suffer severely from co2 anaesthesia, how chickens are slaughtered unanesthetized by weak anaesthesia and how animals are mistreated. what about the farm? that makes sense. it would at least save the animals long journeys to the slaughterhouses. but only with mandatory camera surveillance, in the regular slaughterhouses and on the farm, so that we can all monitor and keep an eye on the welfare of the animals at all times. president. - the next item is the report (doc. the only real animal-friendly slaughter is no slaughter. that is why i will continue to advocate for a transition to plant-based diets. i hope the european commission will embrace this. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank you for your interventions and your comments. the commission supports proportionate rules that guarantee the safety of food placed on the eu market. this protects consumers and enables producers on every scale to build a reputation based on quality and safety. this is all the more important given the rise in support for local producers, and this has been underlined during the recent covid—19 lockdown. as i have already mentioned, production of small quantities of fresh meat from poultry and lagomorphs for local sale is not at risk. for meat products and meat preparations, however, after almost 16 years the time has come for local producers also to comply with eu food hygiene rules. this does not mean that they have to stop their activities. i’m convinced that with the flexibility introduced by the co—legislators in the 2004 regulations, the remaining requests for adoption can be addressed. the commission will certainly look at that.
the debate is closed.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the sitting will therefore be closed at 9.15 p.m. today and will resume at 8.30 a.m. tomorrow with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear presidents, "there is nothing more beautiful than to distribute happiness to people". these are words of ludwig van beethoven, made real by his music, by his art. for him, music was the soil where the spirit lives, thinks, invents, dreams and to play it without passion was unforgivable. his music and his passion symbolize the ideals of europe. the ideals of solidarity, peace, freedom and our project for a better world. on the occasion of the 250th anniversary of beethoven's birth, i'd like to share with you a moment of inspiration. the 'hymn to joy' from beethoven's ninth symphony has been adopted as the official anthem of the european union and is played in parliament at the opening of each of our constituent sessions and on solemn occasions. it's kind of our calling card. it will be performed today by the oxalys ensemble of brussels, with arrangements by composer jago moons. enough of the words, here's the hymn to joy for all: united in diversity (the assembly stands to listen to the recording of the hymn to joy by the oxalys ensemble)
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 10 and 11 december 2020 (2020/2862 ((rsp)) - the mff, the rule of law conditionality and own resources (2020/2923 ((rsp))); - the recommendation of jan olbrycht, margarida marques, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027 (09970/2020 - c9-0409/2020 - 2018/0166 (app)) (a9-0260/2020); - the report by mr esteban gonzález pons, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission on budgetary discipline, on budgetary cooperation and on sound financial management, and on new own resources, including a roadmap towards the introduction of new own resources (com (2018) 0323 - c8-0189/2018 - 2018/2070 (aci)) (a9-0261/2020), - the recommendation for second reading by eider gardiazabal rubial, petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgets, committee on budgetary control, on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a general system of conditionality for the protection of the union's budget (09980/1/2020 - c9-0407/2020 - 2018/0136 ((cod)).
president of the european council. – mr president, last week’s european council was a memorable one. we sealed the deal on two crucial agreements: the european budget and the recovery fund, and the new climate goal for 2030. we worked around the clock. the negotiations were intense, but we took our responsibility. we overcame the obstacles and came together for the good of europe. in this process all the institutions, including your assembly, played important roles and helped shape the final outcome. these agreements represent major steps forward. we have the resources – eur 1.8 trillion – we have solidified the rule of law with new and effective legislation, and we have agreed to step up our climate goals for 2030. let me briefly summarise these decisions. you all know the impasse we faced in recent weeks. our eur 1.8 trillion agreement came with conditionality for the protection of our budget. there was a collective decision by all 27 leaders taken last july, but two member states could not approve the package. we found a way to unblock the situation, and here i want to pay tribute to chancellor merkel and her team for their tireless efforts. the adoption of the regulation and the conditionality mechanism is now under way. our second major decision was not only a win for europe, it was also, and it is, a win for our planet. we agreed to reduce our carbon emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and we reaffirmed our goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. this demonstrates our credibility as the global leader in climate action. it was a difficult negotiation. some member states needed more safeguards for their businesses and workers, and some member states have asked to address the possible imbalances of the modernisation fund. for our economies, going green doesn’t mean going broke. quite the opposite. our climate action will spark economic growth and create jobs and speed up the transformation of our economies and give us a competitive edge. but greater ambition requires greater investment, and this is why we will work to develop common and global standards for green finance. this agreement is the start of a process. the implementation will be agreed later this year. dear members of parliament, when covid struck we were taken off guard. it hammered our economies and disrupted our societies, but today europe is rising to the challenge of covid. we are recovering and we are getting stronger in four key areas. first, on vaccines. the global community has developed vaccines in record time. the eu has played a leading role in this venture and this global success could also be a european success story. second, the eu has taken the irreversible decision to collectively borrow, invest and reform – a clear sign of unity and confidence. third, we have solidly entered our prosperity and our social transformation into our climate ambition. but prosperity alone is not enough. we must focus more than ever on the individual and the collective well—being of our citizens. fourth, our long-term goals. covid may have dominated 2020, but it will not monopolise our priorities and our vision for the future. our vision for europe’s place in the world remains crystal clear: less dependence; more influence; a stronger europe that better contributes to a fairer world. – monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les parlementaires, nous sommes mobilisés pour affronter les défis devant nous, et spécialement ceux qui marqueront probablement l’année 2021 qui s’ouvre à nous. le premier objectif que nous partageons toutes et tous: vaincre le covid-19. faire de cette année 2021 l’année où nous prenons le contrôle sur le virus et où nous pouvons réellement relancer un processus de relance et de transformation économique. l’année, aussi, où nous réussissons à progresser s’agissant de la place de l’europe dans le monde. pour le covid, bien sûr, il ne sera pas simple de poursuivre les coopérations afin de déployer les vaccins quand ils seront disponibles et de poursuivre les efforts sur les tests et sur le tracing. réussir la transformation économique, c’est aussi faire en sorte – ce fut un des points du débat dans le cadre du sommet de la zone euro – que l’on puisse, en 2021, continuer à progresser pour l’union bancaire et pour l’union des marchés des capitaux. nous avons ainsi salué le travail qui avait été accompli récemment par les ministres des finances. nous voulons encourager à poursuivre les efforts en 2021 afin de progresser en lien avec ces deux objectifs, qui sont extrêmement importants à nos yeux, pour soutenir le rôle international de l’euro, mais aussi pour faire en sorte que l’on consolide, que l’on solidifie le développement économique dans la zone euro, sur base des deux piliers: le pilier climatique et le pilier digital. et, enfin, un objectif de long terme, difficile, qui nécessite de la ténacité et des engagements pour bâtir, jour après jour, davantage d’unité et de solidarité sur le plan européen: cette ambition d’exprimer une position plus forte sur le plan international. c’est le sens du débat qui a été entrepris lors du dernier conseil européen au mois d’octobre afin de définir notre stratégie à court, moyen et long termes en lien avec la méditerranée orientale. c’est le sens aussi du débat que nous avons eu la semaine passée et de la décision qui a été prise de prendre des sanctions à l’égard de la turquie, mais aussi de maintenir une capacité d’agenda plus positif dès lors que la turquie ferait le choix de cesser ses rhétoriques hostiles et ses actions unilatérales à l’égard de l’union européenne ou d’états membres de l’union européenne. c’est le sens aussi du débat qui a été entrepris entre les états membres au sujet de la relation, que nous voulons plus forte, avec les états-unis, un grand et important allié pour l’union européenne. c’était donc important, me semble-t-il, de commencer le travail afin d’être en mesure d’établir une offre sur des points de partenariat possibles avec ce grand pays: certainement la bataille pour faire en sorte que l’on puisse vaincre le covid, certainement l’engagement pour plus de coopération internationale et de soutien au multilatéralisme, certainement aussi la question du commerce international et du développement économique qui y est lié, mais aussi les questions de sécurité et les questions géopolitiques. vous le voyez, le dernier conseil européen de cette année-ci – en principe en tout cas – est un moment important, parce qu’il traduit l’ambition de faire un pas en avant pour progresser sur ces sujets qui nous tiennent à cœur. je voudrais ici vous remercier, vous, monsieur le président, mais également les membres de votre assemblée, pour le travail intense et difficile qui a été mené, spécialement dans le cadre du trilogue, sous la responsabilité et le leadership de la présidence rotative allemande. je suis totalement convaincu que les points qui ont été engrangés ces derniers jours sont des points qui sont importants pour les 450 millions de citoyens européens. il y a encore beaucoup de pain sur la planche, beaucoup de défis devant nous. nous formons le vœu que les prochains jours puissent nous amener à avoir plus de clarté également sur un autre grand sujet: la relation future avec la grande-bretagne. le mandat exprimé par le conseil européen est clair, et c’est dans ce cadre-là que nos négociateurs mènent ce travail avec patience, sérieux et ténacité. merci, en tout cas, pour la coopération tout au long de l’année 2020. vous pouvez compter sur moi personnellement, mais également sur le conseil européen, tout au long de l’année prochaine pour continuer à travailler avec le parlement européen au service du projet européen.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by paying tribute to valéry giscard d'estaing. with his death, we have lost a president, a patriot and a founding father of europe. born in coblence, he fought for the liberation of paris, was a builder of peace and friendship, and throughout his life he represented europe. he was at once the artist, the architect and the craftsman of our european democracy. and it was here, in this house, that he reminded us in 2002 that europe must always bring to the world and its citizens the three fundamental contributions of reason, humanism and freedom. these three words - reason, humanism and freedom - are at the heart of so many of the historic decisions we have taken in this year quite unlike any other. with tomorrow's vote on next generation eu, you are writing history. it is worth just pausing for a moment and looking at the big picture here. i say that, because next generation eu can lead to the most ambitious overhaul of the european economy in decades. it will drive our green and jobs recovery, it will be investing in everything from renewables to renovations, to restoring our nature, it will speed up our digital decade by funding faster internet, safer infrastructure and newer technologies, it will make our economies more resilient, driving forward reforms, and, crucially, it will provide massive and quick investment where it is needed and to those who need it. it will give citizens, workers and businesses real support and real hope after the pain of the pandemic and the lockdowns. well, this is europe getting back on its feet and moving forward together and i want to thank this house for working with us to make this a reality. honourable members, i also count on your support to finalise negotiations on sectoral programmes and the recovery and resilience facility as soon as possible. i know you will be just as ambitious and determined as you were when you were securing crucial extra funds for research, health and external action, when you ensured a clear roadmap for the introduction of new own resources, when you enshrined ambition on climate and biodiversity spending, and when you protected the general conditionality framework. it is against this background that i am pleased that the council has finally endorsed the general conditionality mechanism which you agreed with them. the conditionality mechanism has not been reopened. this was a red line for me and i know that this was also a red line for you. it is ground-breaking that, for the first time, the union is equipping itself with a mechanism to protect the budget against breaches of the rule of law, not just individual breaches that have already occurred, but also, and more importantly, systemic or recurrent shortcomings that could directly threaten the budget and the eu's financial interests in the future. the council conclusions ultimately do not change anything about the conditionality mechanism, neither in the law nor in its application. let me address some of the understandable concerns that these conclusions have raised in this house. in essence, as i understand it, there is a fear that the application of the regulation will be delayed and that justice delayed might be justice denied. this will not happen. the regulation will apply from 1 january 2021 onwards and any breach that occurs from that day onwards will be covered. i can assure you that the commission will always act in full autonomy, full respect of the law and full objectivity. we will start the necessary work of monitoring immediately. when concerns arise, discussions with member states will also begin without undue delay. we will adopt guidelines on the regulation, as we were planning in any event, and these guidelines do not of course change the law. they just set out how we will make our role in implementing it. it is only natural that, if there is a court case on the underlying law, we take the european court of justice judgment into account in finalising the guidelines. crucially, any case occurring after 1 january 2021 will be addressed; no case will be lost. finally, i am sure that parliament will stand with the commission in defending the regulation if it comes to a court case and ask for an expedited procedure. i started by talking about how europe is moving forward with reason, humanity and freedom, and nowhere is this clearer than when it comes to the future of our planet. the decision by leaders to back the commission's proposal for a 2030 emission reduction target of at least 55% was based on science and on reason. it was based on protecting humanity and on ensuring freedom for future generations. with this argument and this agreement we set ourselves on the path towards climate neutrality by 2050 and we show true leadership. the good news is that we are far from being alone. just last week, we saw 70 world leaders stand up at the un climate ambition summit and another 60 of europe's biggest companies stand behind the 2030 target. building on this momentum, i count on the support of this house to swiftly conclude negotiations on the european climate law. this will be the first ever law that will bind a continent to become climate neutral. but let me be clear. setting the target is the easy part in this difficult endeavor. delivering on it must start now. it will take a major collective and systemic effort, but it is worth it. our union has taken bigger steps forward this year than it probably did in the decade before and we did this in spite, and in some cases even because, of a fierce global pandemic. but any recovery starts with overcoming this virus and no one should think that we are out of the woods yet. not when more than 3 000 europeans die of covid19 every single day or when infections and hospitalizations are still going up in some member states. but there is finally some good news. we have agency and we have hope. this is the message i passed on to the leaders at the european council. the commission has negotiated the broadest portfolio of vaccine candidates and finally, within a week, the first vaccine will be authorised so that vaccinations can start immediately and more will follow in the new year. in total we have bought more than enough doses for everyone in europe and we will be able to support our neighbours and our partners around the world through covax so that no one is left behind. but to get to the end of the pandemic we will need up to 70% of the population to be vaccinated. this is a huge task, a big task. so let's start as soon as possible with the vaccination together, as 27, with the start on the same day. as we've gone in unity through this pandemic, let's start the eradication of this horrible virus together and united. allow me to end with a brief update on the unfinished business of this year. this is our future partnership with the united kingdom. as i speak, our teams are working to try to reach an agreement. they are working day and night, sometimes against all odds, and i want to pay tribute to all of them and i want to thank, in particular, our chief negotiator, michel barnier, for his dedication and resilience. as things stand, i cannot tell you whether there will be a deal or not, but i can tell you that there is a path to an agreement now. the path may be very narrow, but it is there and it is therefore our responsibility to continue trying. the good news is that we have found a way forward on most issues, but this is now a case of us being so close and yet being so far away from each other because two issues are still outstanding. you know them: the level playing field and the fisheries. first, on the level playing field, our aim is simply to ensure fair competition on our own market. it's very simple. and this is why we need to establish robust mechanisms. the architecture we are working on rests on two pillars, state aid and standards. on state aid, we have made progress based on common principles, guarantees of domestic enforcement and the possibility to autonomously remedy the situation where needed. on standards, we have agreed a strong mechanism of nonregression. that's a big step forward. this is to ensure that our common high labour, social and environmental standards will not be undercut. and of course difficulties still remain on the question of how to really future-proof fair competition, but i'm also glad to report that issues linked to governance are by now largely being resolved. on fisheries, the discussion is still very difficult. we do not question the uk's sovereignty over its own waters, but we ask for predictability and stability for our fishermen and our fisherwomen. in all honesty, it sometimes feels that we will not be able to resolve this issue, but we must continue to try to find a solution. it is the only responsible and right course of action. the next few days are going to be decisive. i know i've said this before and i know deadlines have been missed time and again. the clock puts us all in a very difficult situation, not least this parliament, and its right to exercise democratic scrutiny and ratification. that is why i want to sincerely thank you for your support and your understanding. i know that, if we do get there, i can count on you to ensure a good outcome. as in the past, we must all walk these last miles in the same shoes. thank you so much and long live europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the president of the council. president. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european council, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i have just received a letter from the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the european council, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the european council, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the european council, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the european council, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the european council, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the european council, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the european council, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, to the president of the commission, mr delors, when the budget negotiations began in 2018 with a proposal from the european commission, the world, europe, was very different. we are currently experiencing one of the worst health crises in europe, with hundreds of thousands of deaths, millions of people infected and sick, and we still don't know where this is going. no one knows. but the citizens of a united europe know that we have learned from the crises of recent years. this time we will come out of this crisis together and in solidarity. we're not leaving anyone behind. this was the focus of the german presidency of the council of the european union, and i would like to take this opportunity today - also on behalf of the chancellor and on behalf of my colleagues in the government - to thank you all. i know that the institutional fabric of the european union is very complex and that there is always a certain competition between the council and parliament. but we need trust, and i had the impression that there was and still is a close bond of trust between the european parliament and the council, because we were all equally aware of our responsibilities. quarrel was necessary in the matter. we have tried to build bridges, to make compromises with regard to the multiannual financial framework, but there is also a need for attitude. and you all know that there is a big dispute that has divided europe for years, and that is the question of the rule of law. i say this very clearly, your clear position is important because we cannot simply put this conflict aside, but we must resolve it constructively in order to come back to a common understanding of what holds us together in europe, because we are not just a single market and not just a monetary community, but above all a community of values and of law. their clear position also encouraged us to continue along this path and to reach a compromise in the end. and president charles michel pointed out the difficulties of this negotiation, which was eventually supported by 27 member states. and this is not taken for granted, but it is necessary! i am defending this compromise because, on the one hand, it does not change a single word of what we have negotiated with you, and on the other hand, it also offers the chance of peace. the european court of justice will send a signal as to whether what we have negotiated is in conformity with the treaty, and perhaps there will also be an opportunity for those who are constantly talking about the lack of conformity and saying that individual institutions want to be intrusive here, that too much is being done to national cultures, national identities, national traditions, perhaps there will be an opportunity - through a decision of the european court of justice - for us to come together again and for us to come to a common understanding of who we are and for values to no longer divide us. that is why it was important for us to agree on another instrument in the council, also in close cooperation with the european commission, which has presented a report on the rule of law for the first time, namely a rule of law dialogue, a rule of law check, to which all the member states of the european union must submit themselves equally. we made a promise: together and in solidarity to get out of this crisis. we're not leaving anyone behind, and we've promised that the money will get to where it's needed most as soon as possible: to the people who are sick; to the people who are in need of help; to the people who are in need of help. in the regions most affected by the pandemic; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. and we can, i hope, at least keep our word. the money will be available very quickly from next year. and that's important that we mitigate the economic and social consequences of this pandemic as best we can, with a large €750 billion recovery program. but it is not reconstruction, mr president! it's building a new future, because we're investing in climate change, because we're investing in digitization. because we encourage people, because we want to strengthen social cohesion. this is also reflected in the budget, in the multiannual financial framework. and we have made a point of having a substantive approach with mr van overtveldt and the negotiating team, to whom i would like to thank very much because it was always about the subject. there is something in the eu budget, in the multiannual financial framework, that probably does not exist in any national budget of the european union - and i say this as the representative of the council - namely that we are committing 30% of the budget, of the multiannual financial framework, to climate protection. that we make gender equality a guiding principle of this multiannual financial framework. that we make sure that women and men are equally affected by the expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have achieved something here, so that europe can be put on a new foundation. and i think that in these difficult times, when democracy is under pressure around the world and when authoritarianism is growing, it's an infinitely important sign that we make it clear: liberal democracies can crash! we can protect people from terrorism, from health risks, from the injustices of the world, from other dangers. and here europe has set standards, especially in the field of climate protection, and this has only been possible because the three institutions have worked together in a spirit of trust and dispute. europe is made of courage. we all have shown that courage. i thank you very much for this and i hope that you will continue to place the same confidence in us as you did in the portuguese presidency, because we still have a lot of work to do. i wish you every success in your work to make europe better, more sovereign, more united and stronger.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, eur 1.8 trillion, a lot of money is now on our table and the european parliament as the budget authority of the european union has a huge responsibility. we all know it’s not about figures, it’s about content. what does this proposal now mean? eur 1.8 trillion means first of all — solidarity. europe is in a deep recession, in a health crisis, and with this approach, we show that together we can overcome this. nowhere else in the world are 27 countries combining their strengths and their forces to overcome the crisis. even the rich countries understood that they can recover only if we do it together. eur 1.8 trillion means a clear commitment to the young generation. no second lost generation. this money creates a future; this creates new products, new services, and new markets. jobs jobs jobs. eur 1.8 trillion means protecting our environment, creating a digital europe. we are the front-runner in implementing the paris agreement. yes, but now we are providing the necessary means, the necessary money. yes we lost the first wave of the digital revolution, but we are committed to winning the second one, about industrial data. eur 1.8 trillion means certainty for the final beneficiaries of the eu money in the mff, the mayors in rural areas, the farmers that can count on us in a globalised world, the researchers — yes go for innovation — we now have the money for you and for the students in erasmus. please look how beautiful europe is. eur 1.8 trillion means more money for a strong europe, on a european level. the big deficit of the outcome in july and the council conclusions on the mff was that this was dominated by national egoism and we added again the european added value, and it was about erasmus, when it was about research, when it was about frontex, and about the health money. in the middle of the corona crisis the council had cut the expenditures in the fight for a health union dramatically and we, as parliament, we healed this. eur 1.8 trillion means for us also, fairness towards the young generation, because if you borrow money, you have to tell people the truth about how to pay it back, and that’s why the decision on own resources is so fundamental — to be honest. this eur 1.8 trillion is then finally also linked to an historic achievement. to link for the first time money to the basic principles we believe in: the rule of law mechanism. it was a red line for us in the european parliament, that we will not allow the trilogue outcome to be changed and this red line is now respected. for me and for my group, this is a game changer. in the last 20, 30 years we saw the process of strengthening the rule of law in the european union, especially with the enlargement process and then we saw a process of weakening the rule of law in today’s european union. this mechanism is now again a strong base for defending this rule of law. the last days gave us proof that the plan b, to link the money to the rule of law, really works, because the covid 25 consideration was then a powerful tool to create a readiness to find a conclusion on the council side. we now need an independent commission that is ready to use the new tool from the first day on and i thank ursula, the commission president, for the clear commitment in this regard. this mechanism is not against the country. this mechanism is in favour of europe. i also want to underline that with this new mechanism, we now have a fact-based and an independent assessment. not let me say a party political one. in the future, the european parliament will no longer play a role in this process and it’s up to the commission, and then finally up to the courts to decide on these things. i think that is important. if we want to have credibility for the process we need a fact-based assessment and independent activity from the commission. so, madam commission president, if you use the new tool independently, i think that is the best service you can do to defend the european way of life in tomorrow’s world. this agreement is a compromise and charles michel was referring to this. it’s not about winners and losers in today’s european union. i am happy that we have the agreement now on the table, but i also respect other considerations, other views on the subject on the table and they have to be accepted. ‘europe’ is that we all can live with an outcome. again the message is that the red lines from the european parliament were respected, but all countries are on board and that is good. i finally want to thank, first of all, ursula von der leyen, for the innovative idea of the next generation eu fund based on the lisbon treaty, for the plan b consideration — eu commitment to defend the rule of law. i want to thank the german presidency especially angela merkel, in my group colleagues called her the mother of compromises, i think that is a great title for her, i thank her for this. i thank our nego team, all colleagues who contributed to this big outcome, to this great success. the european parliament showed that we are the parliament of the citizens. we defend their interests, that they can count on their parliament and the european people’s party may tomorrow support all related dossiers. let’s now start to implement it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a very special year. no one could have imagined the situation that all european citizens have had to go through. the covid pandemic has caught us off guard and forced us to reinvent ourselves, to be able to keep working and to deal with this crisis in a smarter way, and that smarter way is to be united. i would like to believe that the public has been informed of the work and efforts made by the european union to be useful in their lives and to solve problems. it has been a year of intense, and sometimes difficult, work because of the distance and confinement. now all that effort is paying off. and i would like to thank the german presidency for its efforts to close the most important issues. it's been a frantic few weeks of closing deals and ending trilogues. with shared parenting, many of the members have worked for hours and hours with the german presidency, with the commission, to achieve what we are going to be able to determine together today. this parliament has always been open to cooperation and to working, also intensively, and to fulfilling what was our responsibility. and we will do the same if there is an agreement, finally, on future relations with the united kingdom. as i said, a frenzied year which we are prepared to undertake as long as we can fulfil our obligation for the good of europe and for the good of the citizens. i would therefore like to call for the role of parliament. over the past few months, the main political groups have been united in pushing the commission and the council forward, and we have achieved unprecedented, historic achievements. for example, a union budget for the next seven years, which for the first time we have managed to increase by more than eur 16 billion compared with the initial proposal by the council. we have achieved a legislative mechanism linking the budget to the rule of law. that makes us stronger as europeans, because it makes our values stronger. we have taken another important step: the european union issued its first bond in october, putting more than eur 17 billion in social bonds into circulation. and there will be more debt issuance to finance the european recovery fund. this is a major step forward in the economic strength of the union. we learned a lot from the 2008 crisis: that austerity cannot be the answer, that we cannot leave aside those who need us most. it's not about cutting, it's about investing. because we are investing in the future, in a more sustainable future, that takes into account the need to protect the planet. we are glad that the council has agreed to a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, but we need more ambition if we are to achieve neutrality, and i remind you that this parliament has agreed to a 60% reduction in emissions. but we are also laying the foundations for a europe that is committed to people, with social investments, with a democratic digital strategy that reduces inequalities and does not increase them. and so is online education, which should be equal for all and for all. we are certainly aware of the difficulties that many families have gone through during this period of confinement when they could not cope with the situation that online education entailed because they did not have computers, because they did not have the internet to be able to make sure that their children had equal access to education. this is also europe, and we must also move forward on this. and we've achieved all of this without having to compromise our values. i have said it many times: we cannot be forced to choose between economic recovery and values and the rule of law, because then we will be missing the essence of what the european union really is. you can't compromise on the core values. president von der leyen has said that, and she deserves our confidence, madam president. the commission will be the guarantor of the treaties and will not miss a single case of breach of the rule of law that occurs after 1 january. we must be proud, ladies and gentlemen, of the work we have done in this parliament. a year ago, mrs von der leyen and her european commission took office, and we could not imagine what was going to happen. it's been a roller coaster ride, and we come to the end of 2020 with sadness and with concern because many families will not be able to come together at these holidays and others, moreover, will be remembering those who have lost. we must be aware of the many workers who also face these holidays with the uncertainty of their jobs; of the many entrepreneurs, self-employed, small businesses, who are uncertain at this moment of what will happen from now on. we know that caution is necessary, but we can be optimistic about 2021. we have a vaccination strategy that will facilitate democratic, equal and fair access for all people living in the european union and opens up a horizon of hope and recovery in the coming months. all this is true, but we must also flee from complacency, we must continue. we cannot just speed up the pace when a crisis hits and then have to improvise. in these months we have seen that our union has shortcomings: now we know it, let us keep working. the recovery and resilience mechanism is yet to be approved. the socialists and democrats have been calling for a financial transaction tax for years, and there are possibilities: we have ideas, we just need the political will to be able to carry them out. because the fundamental question is why are we here, if not to change people's lives and to stand by those who need it most. we have seen that the single market works and we have taken great care of it. all this is very well, but three decades ago jacques delors warned that there can be no single market without the counterweight of a social europe. that is why we now have six months ahead of us which we cannot afford to lose with portugal's leadership of the council presidency. it is a great opportunity to give impetus to this social reform, the social europe, the europe of rights. and i also hope that we will finally be able to conclude the negotiations and start the conference on the future of europe precisely in order to listen, to listen to the citizens and to be able to continue to transform this europe on which we want to work.
on behalf of the group renew mr president, i would like to thank 2020 was a year apart, and it's going to be hard to remember anything other than the pandemic. it has put a strain on our health care systems, our social, political and economic systems. and we must say and acknowledge this: at the beginning of the year, the crisis showed the weaknesses of the european system and the european project, especially with the lack of coordination in the face of the first wave. we still remember the chaotic closure of the borders. but this year has also shown the capacity to bounce back and has given real prospects for deepening our union. the coordination work for vaccine research and procurement is one example, as is the recovery plan which has just strengthened the multiannual budget. we will rebuild, but also transform around truly european priorities, such as digital and the green deal. we have not only worked to respond to the crisis, but with these packages of measures we are also taking decisions which will have a lasting impact on the european project. i am thinking in particular of the new own resources and the conditionality linked to the rule of law. this shows that under the pressure of difficult realities we can make progress in europe. but before adopting these measures, i want to tell you, madam president, that both myself and my group listened carefully to your words and i welcome your statement that law prevails over political declaration, because the european commission must fully respect the treaties. indeed, its primary function is to do just that and apply the text as decided by colegislators as soon as it enters into force and without any further constraint. this is extremely important for my group. we are very happy that we have this rule of law mechanism, it should be enforced at the beginning of the year, and in full, as the text provides. i would also like to point out that most of these measures were born here in this house and that they were able to see the light of day because we were able to build a solid majority to carry them through to the end. i would like to thank my colleagues. we have proved that parliament can be united when it comes to reinforcing the european union. this is something that we have to keep in mind, because the work is not finished yet far from it. over and above the many legislative dossiers that are in the pipeline, we must make europe more responsive. its decisions must be faster and clearer, and to do that we should use the opportunity of the conference on the future of europe which we have been pushing for since the beginning of this mandate. this crisis has shown us the structural problem caused by the question of unanimity in the council, which blocks a lot of important decisions concerning the european union. this is not about not giving each member state the possibility to be part of a decision. but if the objective of some member states is only to block decisions without any strong arguments, then this is not the way to develop europe. so let's not be afraid to debate this and find the right solution. above all, let us never forget that europe is most effective when it is united, determined and puts its citizens at the heart of its decisions and ambitions. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. we voted for the multiannual financial framework in the hope that eu funds, amounting to €1,074.3 billion for the period 2021-2027, will reach as quickly as possible where they are most needed: to those most affected by the pandemic crisis. the core of the european budgetary effort must be to limit the proportions of the economic and social disaster unleashed this year and to support member states to revive their growth. it is very important that the european parliament is involved, together with the council, in monitoring the way the €750 billion of recovery funds, of which €390 billion is grants, are managed, which will complement the budget over the next seven years. in view of the debt to be incurred by the european commission for the recovery fund, the eu's own resources become essential in order to avoid burdensome increases in contributions to the union budget for the member states in the effort to repay. this roadmap is therefore necessary for the introduction of new sources of direct eu revenue, such as the digital tax and the financial transaction tax. i also support the substantial increase that the european parliamentary forum is now deciding on for the budgets of the eu's flagship programmes in health, research and education.
