madam president, the problem in australia is not the fires themselves, but the fact that they have long been part of the australian landscape. the bush, the forests, and the unique species of australia are adapted to it. the problem is the large-scale burning of the forest, made possible by two extremely hot and dry years. the average summer temperature was four degrees above normal. it's like saying, "welcome to the future". in the near future, this scenario will be commonplace, with fires recurring, increasing in size, intensity and frequency. if we don't start to reduce carbon emissions effectively and maximize the ability of nature to adapt to changing conditions, australia will be a terrible example of an economic model that is incompatible with life on our planet. the correction must be a global initiative consistently translated into national policies. let us not be under the illusion that this does not concern us, that australia is too remote and exotic. this smallest continent, unfortunately, will not be alone in this.
madam president, we are indeed facing an unprecedented and perhaps the most devastating and widespread fire, but it is not the first time. we had the same crisis -- or maybe a little bit smaller -- of the amazon rainforest, before we had the huge fires in siberia. i think it's a kind of, really, like an apocalyptic preview of what's coming, and that's why we have to act. it's good that we have the green deal, but we have to get the other great powers on our side - the americans, the chinese, the russians, the brazilians and finally australia. it's a democratic country, we're negotiating trade with them. we have to get our diplomacy on our side of all allies, and especially all democratic states, but also others, because we only contribute eight to ten percent of greenhouse emissions. and those that don't, we have to use a diplomatic mission of pressure, or they'll get in the way. so i say, it's good that the european commission is negotiating and offering help, but we're going to help biodiversity and then we have to put pressure on australia to change their attitude on the whole issue.
madam president, i think it is good that in the context of the discussion on organised crime or the fight against organised crime we are also discussing the specific cases that have occurred in sweden and denmark. i think it is perfectly understandable that the danish government has taken this measure, and thus temporarily introduced or reintroduced internal border controls within the schengen area. at least it's good to calm the situation. but in the long term, of course, that does not matter much, and we, especially here in the european parliament, as responsible people, politicians and members of parliament, must maintain a positive schengen narrative and at the same time support the european commission, including in those areas that mr šefčovič mentioned, in terms of intensifying the fight, both by using europol and by giving more funding, and at the same time strengthening cooperation between the member states and between their investigative bodies. but at the same time, we have to understand what governments like the government in denmark are doing, and not use that to our political battle between factions.
madam president, the croatian presidency will have an important role to play in moving forward with the negotiations on the long-term european budget. the uk leaving leaves us with a revenue gap that needs to be reflected in the reduction of expenditure. i do not consider it fortunate that some member states instead want to compensate for the revenue shortfall with new european taxes and higher contributions from the member states. what we need is to do better with what we have. slovakia, which i represent, is a net recipient of european money. but our voter understands very well that less european revenue means less european expenditure. what he doesn't understand, however, is why the european funds spend years in the same key when they are often accompanied by inefficiency. i therefore call on the council to define more clearly the objectives of its policies in the negotiations and to critically assess the effectiveness of the programmes that achieve them.
madam president, a strong europe in a world of vision: i think that is a really good motto for your presidency, because europe has its strengths and must learn to use them in the most effective way. they must learn to harness their economic power. it really has to learn to use its own attractiveness, which is documenting the interest of the candidate countries in joining the european union, but it also has to learn to speak up, with one voice or with one voice. i think that of your challenges, like setting ceilings for budgets for individual policies, this challenge is probably one of the strongest and we have to ensure, and you have to ensure in particular, that the interests of those who want to pay less because they are net payers, the interests of the european parliament, which wants to increase the budget, and at the same time the interests of those who depend on the cohesion funds, that is, countries like croatia or my country slovakia, are aligned.
in writing. the post-brexit adjustment of relations between the european union and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland will have an impact on the rights of almost three million europeans living in britain and more than a million britons in the eu. more than 70,000 slovak citizens are working, doing business, studying or simply living in the british isles, and many of them remain uncertain about their fate in the post-brexit period. many slovaks, but also poles, have already returned home from britain. we must therefore seek to ensure that the highest possible level of fundamental civil rights is maintained after london leaves the eu, in particular as regards the free movement of persons, which in practice means the possibility to continue living, working, doing business or studying, whether on the islands or on the continent. i believe that the british authorities in particular could have been more accommodating in the process of mandatory registration of eu citizens, especially in terms of transparency and clear rules. but we are not 100% on the side of our member states either, and we must try to provide our citizens with good information and to allow british citizens to have their registration process with us as unbureaucratic as possible.
madam president, our effort must really be to calm the situation and help to reduce the tensions that have been escalating by the unilateral, i would say selective and perhaps unreasonable killing of iranian general suleimani, about whom we can think what we want, but it certainly did not contribute to calming the situation, but on the contrary, as the subsequent developments that followed this unilateral act show. we have to be able to say critical words to the united states, they are our ally in nato, but we have to behave as partners, as credible, to maintain our credibility also towards other countries. now, what is really at stake is that we put all our efforts, all our capabilities and all our good relations both with the americans, but also to some extent good relations within the possibilities with iran, to preserve the nuclear deal, because its threat would also threaten us, and any further escalation of tension in this area, possibly military conflict, would certainly cause an additional influx of migrants and people who have been displaced, and human rights violations.
madam president, first of all i would like to complain to the leadership of the parliament that they have forbidden us to have flags in the plenary, with the bizarre explanation that they are banners. this is really outrageous. as regards iran, it must be objectively acknowledged that the nuclear deal with which iran has agreed is a good result of european diplomacy, but it must also be said that all the evil that is happening in the middle east is due to the aggressive policy of the united states of america, which is already openly ignoring international law and is carrying out terrorist attacks against selected officials of other foreign states. i ask the european union to condemn this american terrorist attack, as it condemns all other terrorist attacks in other countries, and to stay as far away as possible from these dangerous, bloody adventures of the united states.
madam president, please. first of all, i want to congratulate the reporters on these reports. the european union and hungary also support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, and a negotiated solution to the conflict in eastern ukraine, so that peace and security can be established in the country as soon as possible. i welcome the fact that the normandy four meeting has re-launched the process of settling the conflict, resulting in a new exchange of prisoners on 29 december. i hope we can soon put an end to this conflict that has been going on for years. in an attempt to ease the internal tension in the country, which is the result of the nationalist policies of the previous government and legislation restricting the fundamental rights of minorities, i see president zelensky making an attempt, because in his new year's speech he encouraged ukrainian citizens to unite despite their differences, which can be considered a positive sign, and i hope that the legislation will reflect this. the european union must play an active role in promoting peace beyond its borders, but it must take more effective action to uphold human and minority rights and democratic principles, which are also key tools for stability.
madam president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for excellently balanced reports, and let me make a couple of remarks on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). i want to welcome the rapporteur’s horizontal approach. it’s important to strengthen the eu’s tools and institutions if we are to defend multilateralism, respect for international law and europe’s strategic interests around the world. in particular, we must uphold our commitment to the european union’s neighbourhood. the neighbourhood is the testing grounds for the common foreign and security policy. most tangibly, europe – not russia, not turkey, not china – must succeed in the western balkans. here, i want to underline the ep’s role in the resolution of political crises in the neighbourhood, but the ep alone will not succeed. we need to join forces, mr high representative, with the commission, with the member states, in order to bring tangible and concrete results and to put the european perspective on the ground in the western balkans. only concrete results will convince those who doubt europe’s international role, and we must achieve it this year.
madam president, i very much welcome this discussion, and i also welcome the resolution for which i hope we can gather the widest possible support in this house. it is important: we need a strong start for this conference, and we don’t need it just in this house – we need it especially beyond the confines of this house. indeed, the conference should bring results for improving our institutions, and also our decision making. but, more importantly, i hope that the conference carries something more, and that is the emotion: the emotion which we saw in the run up to the last european elections, when voters’ participation increased in unprecedented numbers across the eu member states. and we need to carry this emotion; we need to carry the increased trust of our citizens in europe’s future, and we need to do it through their participation in this conference. this is essential, and i just want to respond very quickly to the remarks from the far—right corner of this house. this is going to be a conference on europe’s future. article 19 is very clear. i believe we should engage all of those in the eu candidate countries who are ready to work with us, who are ready to join us. this is the opportunity to make this a conference on europe’s future; to make this a conference on a stronger europe in the world.
madam president, the european project which was born after the second world war, of which we are the heirs and which we have the responsibility to continue to promote, began to move forward because previously the liberal democracies had won over the totalitarian regimes in that horrible war. the european project was built on the defeat of nazism and fascism. it is impossible to understand the european project apart from the values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights that those regimes systematically violated. spain, on the other hand, has not built its democracy on the defeat of francoism. the dictator died in bed and his cultural legacy is still very much alive today. too much life. the spanish transition did not have much to do with the break that countries like germany or italy did in the 1940s or portugal did in the 1970s, which are now established democracies and which did break with their previous totalitarian regimes. and understanding this is essential to understanding the deep roots of the authoritarian drift in which the spanish state is now embarked. today spanish nationalism considers that in order to defend spain's unity it is justified to trample on fundamental rights. and the judicial dome is a very good example of that. it is a nationalism that is largely the heir of francoist nationalism, which is the kind of nationalism against which the european union has been built.
madam president, the gentleman who has preceded me in the use of the word is being prosecuted in spain by the judges for stealing, stealing public money. and yet it can be expressed freely in this parliament. do you think spain is an authoritarian country if a person who has stolen - and is being prosecuted by the judges for stealing - speaks freely in this parliament? more freedom, it is impossible. this year we're celebrating the 75th anniversary of a lot of things. among other things, from the end of world war ii. but world war ii did not end in 1945. world war ii ended when the berlin wall fell, when the red army withdrew from the countries of eastern europe, when we defeated, at the same time, fascism, nationalism, and, yes, communism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has not done a very good job on the subject of memory in this parliament. in september, against the wishes of my group, it was decided to put to the vote a resolution which was eventually perceived by our citizens, beyond the text, not as a condemnation of totalitarianism but as an equation between nazism and the extremely varied historical experience, also in europe, of socialist-communist thought and policy. although the mediations made the text confusing but essentially harmless in terms of consequences, many felt offended nonetheless. i apologise to them, because this institution has failed to give a message of a shared memory. i would say that we must start with what has really united the european parliament on these issues, with clarity. on 25 october 2018, we clearly called on the member states to ban neo-fascist and neo-nazi organizations, still proud of the dictatorship and our past. it's time to do it, and i want to tell my colleague panza from the league that "bella ciao" is the song of the resistance, not only in italy. our europe was born of the resistance and sacrifice that he denigrated in this house today.
i will say this in english because you might listen to me. you spoke so fast that the interpreters could not follow you, so i’m very sorry. next time, a little bit slower, please. thank you anyway.
madam president, russia's attempts to rewrite history are really nothing new and unfortunately a very common part of putin's propaganda: not only in relation to the ribbentrop-molotov pact, but also, for example, to 1968. however, we cannot, as the european union and as the european parliament, pass this attempt by putin by in silence. we must once again clearly repeat the historical fact that the cynical cooperation of two totalitarian regimes has led to immense horrors, suffering not only in poland but also in other occupied countries. we cannot remain silent out of respect for the victims and we must stand in solidarity with poland and other countries, because this is our common history. the european integration project is a historic response to the cynicism and suffering of power, of which this pact is the symbol. if we allow putin's propaganda to question this critical point in our shared history today, it will be the beginning of the end of our project.
madam president, in a few days, on january 27th, we will be commemorating the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz concentration camp. a camp where the nazis killed millions of innocent people, and that was only because many believed or at least did nothing against the devil, adolf hitler, especially his ideas of a superior race. there is no superior race. there is no such thing as a lesser man. millions of people have died just because they were roma or jews. if hitler had won the war, i wouldn't be here today because i'm a roma. it is a disgrace to this parliament that even in this room there are holocaust deniers. dear fascists, the holocaust has happened. do not make up stories or twist the tragic events of world war ii. during world war ii, people died because many were silent. we can't be quiet today. today we cannot be silent when fascists twist the past and preach hatred. we cannot be silent, we cannot accept any hatred for being different. because hatred is the road to hell.
madam president, the 20th century has seen the rise of both nazi and communist regimes, which have resulted in mass murder, genocide, deportations and huge loss of life. they should be enough of a warning for future generations, but they're not. in my own country, too, neo-fascists have exchanged their human uniforms for suits and moved into the parliament - and here into the european parliament. a politician who openly promotes communism, a criminal ideology, is the head of the parliamentary committee for relations with the european union. i'm ashamed of it. but at the same time, i want this to be a wake-up call for all of us. so we need to start addressing the real causes of support for extremists, which are corruption, poor media literacy, poor history education, and last but not least, our tolerance for politicians who have doubts about the holocaust and spread the delusions and hatred that underlie the epidemic of extremism.
mr president, the rule of law implies the primacy of law over political power in a state. it is one of the fundamental pillars of the functioning of our democracies and of the community of values that the european union represents. governors and governed are bound to observe it. just yesterday, the advocate general of the european court of justice added another log to the log of the rule of law in hungary. it states that the hungarian law on ngo funding would be contrary to the principle of free movement of capital, contrary to respect for privacy and contrary to freedom of association. this procession of echternach in reverse, one step forward, two steps back, is simply not acceptable. the defence of the rule of law can have only one direction in all member states, irrespective of the political colour of the ruling party. this is the conviction and message that a true christian democrat should carry and defend with all his might.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the union has clear rules and a clear division of labour between the institutions. you on the left are going to kick this thing up now. the draft resolution, initiated by the left-liberals, contradicts the treaties in two respects. one is that the ep wants to be formally present at the council meeting. the resolution, which was kept secret from members by both the council and the ep's legal services, says that it is contrary to eu law. the second is that the article 7 procedure would be extended to cover areas not covered by the sargentini report. so this would not stop at any legal process. i ask you, on what basis do you want to educate hungary about the rule of law? i regret that the commission is assisting in this. please don't mix law and politics. always seek information from an unbiased source. if they were to launch a rule of law investigation that applied equally to everyone, we'd be partners in that. i ask the croatian presidency to conclude this procedure as soon as possible. thank you, sir.
mr president, ten years ago viktor orbán came to power in hungary with an overwhelming electoral majority, and since then the situation has not only worsened but has become chronic. the question of hungary is being referred back to the european parliament again and again. at that time, as chairman of the libe committee, i was the first delegation to study the impact of its measures on freedom of expression, academic freedom and the protection of minorities. but now there is also the offensive lack of solidarity with the other member states on migration, asylum and refuge, and allegations of corruption in the management of european funds. and all by invoking the majority. and we must remember that it was never true that democracy is simply the rule of the majority. and no electoral victory can disassociate it from european values and principles. democracy is not simply the rule of the majority, but the protection of minorities and the observance of the rules of the game, the rule of law. we therefore tell the commission that it has the full support of the european parliament, not only to push forward the procedure initiated by this european parliament, but also to link access to european funds to full compliance with the rule of law and the protection of democracy and fundamental rights.
mr president, the european union has no future if it does not recognise the sovereign right of each state to pursue an autonomous policy in areas which are not under the exclusive competence of the union. no responsible statesman will compromise national security to please brussels. this union is a club with certain rules. just as there are those who look to circumvent these rules, there are those who impose their own interpretations. let us not forget that when it comes to finance and human rights, many member states have circumvented european rules, some on more than one occasion, but none have been stigmatised or punished in the way that hungary and poland are being sanctioned. the question is why.
mr. chairman, i'm sorry to hear that. all of us who have been in the european parliament for many years can follow the long-running downfall of the hungarian government led by viktor orban. the hungarian prime minister has always answered directly in this temple of democracy and denied the accusations. there is no risk of a serious breach of european values in hungary, and i therefore do not support the resolution which is being tabled, which is full of arbitrary assessments. the facts disprove the resolution. the ceu is still functioning but without privileges, the media space is more pluralistic than in other member states, and hungary is ranked in the top half of the union by the justice scoreboard. but there are countries in the union where journalists are being killed, european funds are being corruptly siphoned off, money is being laundered for terrorists and political opposition leaders are being illegally imprisoned. but the central european institutions are not shaken. this is a double standard and does not contribute to the strength of the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to come back to certain issues raised during this debate. on a positive note, let me recall that the hungarian government has decided not to push through the controversial reform establishing a separate administrative courts system. however, new legislation was adopted in december introducing structural changes to the functioning of the justice system. in particular, it relates to the appointment of judges to the supreme court, introduces new possibilities for the public administration to challenge final judgments before the constitutional court, and reorganises the courts hearing administrative cases. we are analysing this new legislation. at this stage, i would only regret that such reform has been carried out at a fast pace without consulting the venice commission and without public consultation. i note that the new legislation does not intend to address the existing concerns about the increasing challenges that the independent national judicial council faces in balancing the powers of the administrative authority managing the judiciary. these challenges have led the council to adopt the country—specific recommendations on judicial independence already mentioned by vice—president jourová. the fact that the president of this administrative authority resigned in november to become a member of the constitutional court does not resolve the structural concerns related to the possibility of arbitrary decisions in the management of the judicial system. another issue that the commission is analysing relates to the judgement of the supreme court of 19 september, declaring unlawful an order by a district court judge requesting a preliminary ruling of the european court of justice. the implications of this judgment, including for possible disciplinary proceedings, call for a careful assessment because the very functioning of the eu legal system requires that national courts have unimpeded access to the european court of justice. i’ve heard a lot of comments about roma discrimination. the european union’s racial equality directive prohibits discrimination on grounds of race and ethnicity in education. the commission has initiated an infringement procedure against hungary regarding segregation of roma peoples in mainstream education and is closely monitoring the steps being undertaken by hungary to remedy this situation. the commission has zero tolerance towards fraud with the eu budget and expects the same level of commitment from member states, which are mainly responsible for the management of some three quarters of the budget. the commission conducts audits when there are reasons to do so and can take the necessary measures to protect the eu budget. the european anti-fraud office plays a key role in this regard, and you know the commission has proposed a regulation on the protection of the eu budget in case of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in a member state. it is a tool to protect the eu budget and ensure sound financial management. the reasoning is simple. in order to control the use of eu funds and to protect the eu’s financial interests against corruption and fraud, each member state needs an independent justice system, effective investigation and prosecution services, and an effective functioning of public authorities implementing the union budget. if these functions are endangered by a generalised rule of law deficiency in a way which affects, or risks affecting, the union’s financial interests, the union would be empowered to suspend, reduce or restrict access to eu funding in a proportional manner. the proposal is currently being examined by parliament and the council of the european union and, if adopted, could make an important contribution to the protection of the eu budget. i have heard also, mr president, calls for a new rule of law mechanism. i can assure you that the commission is working on a comprehensive european rule of law mechanism as a matter of priority. it will cover all member states and provide a synthesis of significant developments related to the various competences of the rule of law, including for example, systemic problems with a process for enacting laws, lack of effective judicial protection by independent and impartial courts, the capacity to fight corruption, and issues in relation to media pluralism. this will allow us to identify and prevent, early on, rule of law—related issues. to conclude, i regret that i cannot report improvements of the situation in hungary since the tabling of the european parliament’s original proposal. i hope that the debate today will help the hungarian authorities to further reflect on the concerns expressed. the commission stands ready to engage with the hungarian authorities on resolving issues.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me assure the honourable members once again that the presidency and the council, as a whole, attach great importance to upholding the rule of law and the protection of the fundamental rights. it is the joint responsibility of the eu institutions and the member states to respect, protect and promote our common values. the presidency will pay particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate. as the rapporteur noted, the finnish presidency regularly informed the european parliament about the article 7 procedure regarding hungary. let me reiterate our intention to continue with this practice. the presidency will also report to the council about its contact with the european parliament on its recent proposal.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 january 2020. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the rule of law in the european union is being tested. in malta, the prime minister resigned because of corruption scandals, and the romanian government fell for the same reasons. a journalist was killed in slovakia, and the czech prime minister is accused of misusing european funds. in spain and france, they're beating up protesters. poland also has problems with ensuring the independence of the judiciary, hungary's complaints have been dragging on for a long time, slovenia is also in this risk group, as the government of the republic of slovenia refuses to enforce the judgments of the constitutional court. the way in which we are dealing with the rule of law problems at eu level is unacceptable. in the european parliament in particular, it is clear that the proceedings are politically motivated, as they are always initiated by the opposing political option. the hallmark of democracy is that we respect different opinions. but the basic charges must be clear. i am in favour of monitoring the rule of law in a systematic way and with the same criteria, taking into account historical developments and the right of the state to maintain its sovereignty within the framework of common principles.
in writing. there is a clear reason why i am only taking a written position on the debate on the rule of law in hungary: i wanted to point out that the procedure initiated under article 7 is slow and cumbersome, and that the new parliamentary debate does not bring anything new, but only provides a new stage for illiberal anti-europe. as a result, i take it that the final parliament resolution - in line with my objection - contains a substantive criticism of the ineffectiveness of the article 7 procedure. however, it is still important to point out that the european parliament adopted a resolution a year and a half ago by a two-thirds majority, which stated that there was a risk of serious and systemic damage to eu values in hungary. the eu institutions have since been throwing the matter out like hot potatoes. few were more determined and militant than i was when it came to arguing for the rule of law report adopted by the european parliament and which i voted in favour of. there was no place in the country where i had not gone to confront the loudmouths with the truth of the statements in the parliamentary document. i was not even shocked when a mannequin of me was hung up on a tree in a threatening manner. my position has not changed, i would still vote for the report documenting the crimes of the orbán government. instead of a new debate in kirakat, however, it is necessary to continue the process in substance and draw conclusions against the orbán government.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the ongoing hearings under article 7 (1) teu concerning poland (2020/2510 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as already expressed today in the previous debate, we cannot stress enough the importance of the issue being discussed here, and the essential place of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in our societies. the eu strategic agenda for 2019-2024 recalls that the rule of law is a key guarantee that our common values are well protected and complied with. as to article 7(1), the procedure regarding poland which was triggered by the commission: three hearings took place in june, september and december 2018 and at the general affairs council. subsequently, the council was kept regularly informed about the developments in poland. in the course of 2019, relevant updates on the state of play were provided and discussed at the general affairs council in february, april, july, september and december. the croatian presidency will ensure that the general affairs council remains seized of this highly important matter. at the same time, we hope that the ongoing dialogue at a political level between the commission and poland will bear fruit. today, we will take careful note of the intervention from the commission, as well as of the outcomes of your debate.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for having included in the agenda the state of play as regards the rule of law in poland. it is essential that all eu institutions contribute within their respective roles to upholding the rule of law in the eu. i am aware that parliament has followed the situation in poland very closely and that you have been regularly updated by the commission. last december, commissioner reynders had the opportunity to debrief the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). today, the commission’s intervention will focus on the most recent developments. let me start with developments in the court of justice of the european union. on 5 november 2019, the court of justice, in full support of the commission’s position, ruled that by lowering the retirement age of ordinary court judges and by granting the minister of justice discretionary power to prolong their active service after reaching the new retirement age, poland had introduced unjustified discrimination based on gender and breached the principle of judicial independence and irremovability of judges under article 19(1) of the treaty on the european union. on 19 november 2019, the court of justice issued a preliminary ruling concerning the independence of the newly created disciplinary chamber of the supreme court. the court of justice held that it was for the polish supreme court to assess whether the new disciplinary chamber was independent and provided a number of precise elements to be taken into account. on 5 december, the polish supreme court, based on the criteria set out by the court of justice of the european union, ruled that the disciplinary chamber of the supreme court did not meet the requirements of eu law on judicial independence and was not, therefore, a court within the meaning of eu law or of national law. we have observed a number of reactions from the polish authorities criticising the supreme court ruling. in this regard, i would emphasise that respecting judgments that apply a preliminary ruling from the court of justice is of key importance for the uniform application of eu law. as regards disciplinary proceedings, the commission decided on 10 october 2019 to refer poland to the court of justice in relation to the new disciplinary regime. in particular, the commission considered that the new disciplinary regime did not provide the necessary guarantees to protect judges from political control of their judicial decisions. the situation continues to be very serious. despite the preliminary ruling of the court of justice and the judgment of the supreme court, ordinary court judges who seek to implement these rulings are subject to disciplinary proceedings and the disciplinary chamber continues to operate in full. these developments create a risk of irreparable damage for judges, who may become subject to a final decision taken by a disciplinary chamber which has been found not to be independent. the continued operation of the disciplinary chamber, combined with the launching of new disciplinary proceedings, increases the chilling effect on the polish judiciary. polish judges who consider sending preliminary references to the court of justice are particularly affected. for these reasons, yesterday the commission decided to make a request for interim measures in the context of ongoing infringement proceedings for the court of justice to suspend the functioning of the disciplinary chamber of the supreme court. these measures are urgent and needed in this specific case. the commission stands ready to continue the dialogue with poland on the rule of law situation with a view to finding constructive ways forward to resolve the issues at hand. another important recent development relates to a draft new law governing the functioning of the judiciary and currently being discussed in the polish parliament. the draft legislation touches upon matters such as the independence of the judiciary, further raising the commission’s concerns in this area. for this reason, on 19 december, i sent a letter to the polish president, the presidents of the sejm and the senate, and to the polish prime minister on this draft legislation. the aim of the letter was to recall that the commission wants to work with the polish authorities to strengthen the rule of law by preventing problems and by working towards resolving them when they arise. in the letter, i encouraged the polish authorities to consult the council of europe’s venice commission on this draft legislation and called on all state bodies not to take forward the proceedings on the new draft legislation before carrying out all the necessary consultations with all stakeholders. i underlined that any legislative development must comply with the requirements underpinning the eu legal order and should not lead to a further deterioration of the rule of law situation in poland. the commission welcomes the fact that the president of the senate has requested an opinion from the venice commission, which visited poland on 9-10 january and is due to provide an opinion on the draft law. the commission stands ready to engage in a constructive dialogue and is in regular contact with the polish authorities with a view to finding constructive ways forward to resolve the issues at hand.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, poland’s place is at the very heart of the european union. poland is the beating heart of europe. poland joining the european union meant that we could start to move past five decades of historical division and suppression. it meant hope for poland and hope for europe. polish citizens are european citizens, just as polish judges are european judges. being a member state of the european union is about both rights and responsibilities. it is both give and take. we share history, and we must share a future, and it is because of that shared future that we cannot be silent when the rule of law is under threat in poland or anywhere. we cannot be silent when an electoral majority is used as an excuse to justify the unjustifiable. we cannot be silent when polish justice is put under threat, and we will not be silent. the term ‘rule of law’ is not a phrase bandied about that means nothing. it means freedom; it means equality; it means rights. ultimately, it means europe. without the protection of the rule of law, our treaties risk becoming nice words printed on expensive paper, and without a truly independent judiciary, there cannot be rule of law. before this is spun as a partisan manoeuvre, let me be absolutely clear: standing up for the independence of judges to perform their function without fear or favour is not an attack on the polish state, or far less on the polish people. it is about protecting the european way and about protecting the people of poland. finally, let me salute the courage of the polish judges who are with us here today. (applause) we will not let you down. we will not let poland down. we will not let europe down. (sustained applause)
we have heard the dramatic testimony of polish judges and magistrates, flesh and blood, on the verge of tears, denouncing the abuses, intimidation and harassment they suffer as a result of their judicial function, which requires independence, as enshrined in european law. in just two years we have seen a run-off of at least three legislative initiatives by the same overwhelming majority in the sejm, the polish parliament. i would stress that no democracy is simply the rule of the majority, and even less so when that majority is based on an electoral prize of a majority which does not correspond to the pluralism of polish society. poland is a big country. it is the largest in terms of territory and population since the 2004 enlargement. its first constitution, of 1791, predates even the first french constitution of the revolutionary period, and yet the concern of this european parliament for the rule of law in poland is justified and comes up again and again in our discussion. the court of justice has made this clear: judgments which clearly show that the judicial bureau and the disciplinary chamber which replaces the supreme court are incompatible with articles 19 and 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is also binding since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, also for poland. so the message is clear. we must say to the judges and magistrates and the lawyers and judges from all over europe who demonstrated this weekend, this sunday, in poland: 'you are not alone, you are not alone'. the european parliament supports the independence of the judiciary, fundamental rights and democracy. the european parliament calls on the commission to make access to european funds conditional on strict respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i guess you can be pretty sure that something pretty serious is happening when judges are taking to the streets to protest. and, indeed, it is serious: we have an eu member state government – one of the biggest eu member states governments – conducting a ruthless intimidation campaign against judges who are simply trying to protect their independence from political control. and more than 40 of them – and some of them here – have been targeted by disciplinary proceedings and smear campaigns orchestrated also with the help of the ministry of justice. let’s be absolutely clear on this: this kind of repression of independent judges is without precedent in the history of the european union. and if this new legislation is passed, it could even happen that judges could be fired for interacting with or implementing the european court of justice rulings, which constitutes quite a blatant and clear challenge to the idea of the european union as a community of law and common values. unfortunately, in the article 7 proceedings so far, the council has been acting in a fairly opaque and timid fashion, unlike the commission, which has thankfully acted with this request for an interim measure. but national governments can no longer duck their responsibility when it comes to protecting european values: as has been said, polish judges are european judges, and the situation in poland is a european problem. without judicial independence, there is no european union. (applause)
mr president, protecting biodiversity means protecting the conditions for life. it's the biggest challenge we face, because we are all very much dependent on biodiversity for our very existence. we're clearly not doing enough to conserve biodiversity. our actions are the cause of the biodiversity crisis. the sixth mass extinction is caused by us, by taking, changing and destroying too much. a strict protection of natural ecosystems and wildlife populations is a prerequisite for conservation. we need to set aside a large enough area where we won't be logging, hunting, fishing or building infrastructure. we need to set aside areas where nature has a place, and we need to set aside a lot more than we have done so far. i'm glad that the resolution on biodiversity protection takes this into account for old-growth forests and rainforests, but frankly, we're kind of happy to design rules for the world, but we forget about homework. we have great forests in europe, but we are poor conservationists. the extinction of species and the collapse of biodiversity cannot be reversed. we must treat this matter with the utmost seriousness. it's a life.
mr. chairman, our life on this planet is in danger. the threat is not just climate change, but also the decline of biodiversity. and this threat is not just the recent amazon forest fires or the fires in australia or the recent fires in siberia, but also the massive loss of bees and other insects that our generation normally encountered when we were out in nature and were part of our lives. but we only have one planet, and we have to start acting now, but we have to act sensibly, and we have to stop deforestation, we have to stop using dangerous pesticides, nicotinoids, and we have to expand protected areas. and that's why it's right that we debate this and pass this resolution tomorrow. we need to call on member states to do more, while at the same time allocating sufficient money and making these commitments legally binding. we must therefore allocate money for this from the budget as well as from other horizontal programmes of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its annual report the european parliament once again congratulates emily o'reilly and the entire office of the european ombudsman on the excellent work they have done. european citizens have found in the ombudsman a valuable ally, who has been fighting for years to ensure the quality of the union's administration, the transparency of its decisions, and the accessibility and quality of services to the population. i would therefore like to express my sincere good wishes to emily o'reilly for her new mandate, a strong message of encouragement to carry forward with determination her important initiatives on all the improvements of the council's decision-making mechanisms and to always stand firm against any instance of maladministration, as she did in the case of the appointment of selmayr as secretary-general of the commission. i am proud to say that over the years i have worked with the ombudsman to stop the shameful practice of unpaid traineeships within the eu institutions. now we have to make an extra effort: we must fight to ban unpaid traineeships and internships in all the member states of the union.
mr president, i would like to conclude this debate by saying that i support this report and i am happy to support one particular article, which may seem to my colleagues to be irrelevant, to be formal, but the experience of the czech republic shows that it is very important. and that is article 47, which sets out the conditions for the performance of the ombudsman's duties. impartiality, professionalism, independence from political office, but also moral competence. some may consider this a mere formality, but we have just witnessed a great public debate in the czech republic, where the president of the republic has proposed a new candidate for ombudsman, a prominent professor of criminal law, who, however, turned out to have collaborated with the communist prosecutors in the 1970s, who sent some political prisoners to death in the czech republic, such as dr. milada horáková. and the great social debate has unfortunately relativized the moral culpability of this candidate. finally, she resigned, and i am glad that we in europe have a clear line that the ombudsman must not only be competent but also morally competent. it's very important.
mr president, i use this speaking time to add my voice to the appreciation of the very meaning of the institution of ombudsman, or ombudsperson, as some say, and particularly to congratulate you for your recent re-election by the plenary of this european parliament. you have five years to go. it’s an appreciation of your work enhancing greater transparency and access to documents, although the regulation has yet to be updated. the work has been blocked by the council, despite the efforts by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), which i chair. there is also much work to do in order to make sure that conflicts of interest are no longer there, that revolving doors are out of the scene, that your inquiry on certain practices of certain industries, in particular, pharmaceutical industries, are compliant with the un convention on persons with disabilities, and, finally, that the code of good administration is upgraded into a real european regulation.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first, i would like to thank the honourable members for their statements and comments. i think that mr terheş has just started what was, as i have seen it, universal high praise for the great work done by ms o’reilly, which we in the commission fully share. to ms toom, i just would like to tell and to reassure her that if it comes to infringements and eu pilot procedures, i’m very much looking forward to our discussion in the committee on petitions (peti), for which i just got an invitation, where we can go into more depth and discuss how we can improve our cooperation in this field as well. i also would like to inform the honourable members of this house that on tuesday, the commission appointed a new secretary-general fully following the procedure and, i believe, selecting a highly competent and exemplary professional and good european, ms juhansone, who i’m sure will be an excellent secretary-general. i would also like to add that the commission clearly and constantly strives to ensure a very high level of good administration and we are going to work with you in that regard to make sure that the rights which are enshrined in article 41 of the eu charter of fundamental rights will be fully respected and enjoyed by our citizens. therefore, citizens, companies and associations with whom we have interaction can fully expect that they will get an open, accessible and properly managed administration from our side in the european commission. i would like to also stress the fact that our daily exchanges with the ombudsman help us to do it better every day, and that we jointly want to provide citizens with very high administrative standards, which are based on the principles of non-discrimination, courtesy, impartiality and consistency – a few of the points you also highlighted in your interventions. your resolution and the report of the committee on petitions on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman stress areas where our institutions do well and where they can improve and i would just really like to promise you that in the coming weeks, the commission will examine your resolution and will reply, as in the past, to all the issues which you raised and which concern the commission. i would also like to use this opportunity to thank ms kirton-darling and mr corbett, who i see there as well, and all the uk colleagues and friends for their dedication, for their hard work. i just want to thank you and i want to tell you that we will miss you.
mrs griffin, you wish to speak on the rules of procedure.
maroš thank you for everything that you did in terms of the green new deal and energy poverty, and i would just like to say that we would like a definition of energy poverty from you and your colleagues in this mandate. but seriously, thank you so much for everything that you did for vulnerable citizens.
madam president, that was way beyond the rules of procedure, but after such a little farewell mood has been spreading, i did not interrupt you.
european ombudsman. – mr president, it’s very inspiring to listen to the support and the ideas that come from parliament at this time. i look forward very much to further discussions with you over the coming months and years. could i begin with ms kirton-darling: it’s not often that an irish person expresses sadness at seeing british people leave, but in this case i do want to say how sad we are, and also want to thank you for your wonderful cooperation and support with my office, and with the ombudsman institution generally over the last number of years. i have to say, i was particularly impressed over the last few months, in particular in the last year, when things must have been so stressful for all of you. the diligence and the integrity with which you continue to do your work and take an interest in things here, and even in this small office, when there were so many bigger things clamouring for your attention. i wish you all of the very best and we will miss you, and thank you. could i say, just taking up some of the points that were made. thank you mr terheş for your comments, for your work and for your praise for my work and the work of the colleagues. ms toom, thank you for taking note of issues that arose in relation to the election procedure, the rules of procedure. it won’t be my problem in five years’ time, but there is an important conversation to be had in relation to the election of the european ombudsman. in relation to the case involving the former secretary, the appointment of the former secretary-general of the commission: yes, the outgoing commission, the last commission, did reject the recommendation. but as vice-president šefčovič has just noted, this time it was different, and the appointment of the new secretary-general has been pretty much in line with the recommendations that we made in our investigation. mr złotowski: the trilogues – yes, we have investigated that in the past, it’s unfinished business, and we shall be going back to see what is happening there. mr georgoulis: yes, citizens’ participation is absolutely vital, and particularly for the legitimacy of the eu, and that underpins so much of the work that we do. i agree with mr furore, the right of access 1049/2001 is an old regulation, but even short of revising it, there is still an awful lot we can do to have more recommendations accepted, more documents made accessible to the people whom we serve. council transparency – yes, our big piece, work in progress, but i can see progress and i note in particular that from an issue that was somewhat marginal and somewhat within the brussels and strasbourg bubble, it is now becoming more mainstream. ms evi, thank you for all your great support. transparency again: the ecb, all of these agencies and institutions – we need to open them up to greater public scrutiny into greater accountability. the comments in relation to disability, to assisted technology; we certainly take them on board, and we take those particular issues a particularly seriously. i was very pleased to see just last week, the eeas advertising for paid traineeships, and that arises out of the joint work of my office and with many people from the parliament, led by mr benifei. so, many ideas there. thank you again for your support and for once again re-electing me and trusting me with this very important office.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the cooperation between mrs o'reilly and the committee on petitions over the last few years has been good. you might ask: is everything all right in the european union? i'm not sure. but you might also ask: have we together been able to improve? then i would say yes. which means we should pick up where we left off. there's a lot to do. let's get on with it. i 'm telling you . the committee on petitions will expressly support you in the matters that lie ahead of us - it has been mentioned - whether it is more transparency, the right to vote and other matters. we'll make things right together. i would like to emphasize once again that i am also extremely sorry that our colleague, mrs kirton-darling, has to leave the committee, the parliament. as epp coordinator, i have seen some s&d coordinators. i would like to see more of your kind, and i am very sorry that you have to leave parliament because of what i consider to be a wrong decision in your own country. but we'll keep you weighed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i hope we can vote on the report tomorrow. the report really deserves to have a huge majority, also so that we have better political support to continue working.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 january 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. while we are discussing the european ombudsman's 2018 activity report today, there are a few things worth noting to ensure that citizens can benefit from this important function in the future. emily oreilly should be congratulated for her excellent work and constructive efforts to improve the quality of the eu administration and the accessibility and quality of its services to citizens. for these reasons, the european ombudsman's efforts to improve citizen participation in eu policy-making should be supported. each new ombudsman should also continue to monitor the use of the european citizens' initiative (eci) instrument, including the implementation of the revised eci regulation. it is also worth encouraging the european ombudsman to continue to cooperate with national ombudsmen through the networks of european ombudsmen. it also stressed the need to develop forms of cooperation between the various national ombudsmen that would help citizens to fight effectively for their rights. it is precisely such actions that should be given priority in the european parliament's recommendations to the ombudsman.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the reform of the general principles of committee procedure (2019/2974 ((rsp)). once again, i would like to remind you that you can apply for the opportunity to speak spontaneously and to use the 'blue card' both in the usual way and by using the electronic system. instructions for use are available at the entrance to the chamber.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss the comitology framework with you. the treaty of lisbon introduced the differentiation between delegated and implementing acts and, on this basis, the co—legislator adopted the comitology regulation. it lays down the mechanisms for control by member states over the commission’s exercise of implementing powers. the regulation also provides for the right of parliament and the council to be fully informed of the draft implementing acts submitted by the commission to the committees of member states. it also provides for a scrutiny right to address situations in which the commission may have exceeded its implementing powers. i think that it’s fair to say that the regulation is fulfilling its purpose. why? because, in 2018, the committees provided opinions on 1 633 draft implementing acts. there was no negative opinion and there were 32 so—called ‘no opinion’ cases in 2018. this ‘no opinion’ means that there is no qualified majority in favour or against draft implementing acts in the committee because of either the contrasting positions of the member states or abstentions. in specific cases, the appeal committee must be consulted in such no—opinion scenarios. in 2018, this was the case for 12 draft implementing acts in the areas of health and consumer policy. in all of these 12 cases, the appeal committee also delivered a no, or lack of, opinion. it is precisely this very limited number of cases that have led to discussions, mainly because they have so far occurred in the politically sensitive areas of the authorisation of genetically modified food and feed and, to a lesser extent, in relation to the approval of active substances for plant protection products. when the appeal committee also delivers no opinion, the commission may adopt the implementing act proposed. indeed, the logic of the comitology regulation is only blocked from adopting an act if there is opinion in the committee against it. this has been a guiding principle in comitology from the very beginning and ensures efficient implementation. as regards the 12 implementing acts in the areas of health and consumer policy, the respective substantive legal framework, not the comitology regulation, actually obliges the commission to take the decision based on the procedural requirements and solid evidence gathered. in these cases of a lack of qualified majority in the committee, the commission has therefore been legally bound to take, at times, very unpopular decisions. the juncker commission therefore decided to propose, as a priority, to change these rules and put forward targeted amendments on the functioning of the appeal committee, with the objective of allowing for greater accountability on the part of the member states in the decision—making process. the proposed amendments were the following: first, to calculate the qualified majority out of member states which are present or represented and which do not abstain – and that means not all of the member states; second, to provide for the possibility for a second referral to the appeal committee at ministerial level to address the problematic issues a second time; and, third, to make individual member states’ representatives’ votes at appeal committee level public – this is what we discussed a few minutes ago – and to provide for the possibility to refer the matter to the council for a non-binding opinion and overall political guidance. where do we stand with this proposal? overall, there was practically no progress over the last close to three years. on the council side, there has been no support whatsoever for this proposal. on the parliament side, the lead committee on legal affairs has not yet presented a draft report and only some opinion—giving committees supported the proposal. i therefore welcome today’s debate because it gives us the opportunity to collectively take stock of the situation. we have, however, to be realistic and frank. unless there is a bold move that would help unblock this file, it is unlikely that progress will be made any time soon. the new commission will factor this and your views today into ultimately deciding on how to proceed in the framework of the assessment of all pending proposals, ahead of the adoption of the commission 2020 work programme. in any case, the commission intends to continue to use all existing means to encourage member states to take on their responsibility in the comitology process and to come to the solutions with member states that find the widest possible support in the committee. let me also refer to some concrete steps we are taking to improve the transparency of comitology, which i believe are also very important for this house. i will soon launch a new, modernised comitology register. the new public register will not only provide access to all draft implementing acts, but will also allow more user—friendly access to information on committees and their meetings. i will also work jointly with you and the council to make sure that the non—binding delineation criteria between delegating and implementing acts that we agreed on last year will actually facilitate negotiations and bring benefits. the commission is fully committed to respecting the criteria when preparing legislative proposals and during legislative negotiations. in parallel, we must also jointly advance negotiations on the outstanding alignment of acts that still make reference to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. we were very successful here in agreeing on the first package last year, but work needs to continue on the remaining parts of the package. i’m looking forward to hearing your views on this file because i believe it would help us in finalising the work on the commission work programme for this year.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the vice—president of the commission for his words. i would like to say that at the end of the last mandate, surprisingly, we had some progress, especially in the area of realignment in the comitology area. however, we did not get this specific dossier through. the committee on legal affairs (juri) is just in the process of starting to consider this. however, the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), the committee on international trade (inta), the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi), and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) have provided opinions on the proposed regulation. these opinions underline the importance of keeping the comitology framework as it stands, since it’s working properly, but they also agree that the transparency aspect should be further enhanced. the juri committee is basically focusing on this request from the other committees, especially in the area of political transparency and accountability. in a number of high-profile cases, however, according to the present procedure, in the absence of a clear position from the member state, the political responsibility for taking a final decision falls upon the commission, which without clear political backing from the member state, is an undesirable situation. this is what the reform presented in 2007 was intended to remedy in full agreement with the general aim of the proposal. we have to face the fact, however, that taking into account the kind of resistance that most member states show against it in the council, the future of this reform is at least highly unpredictable and non-favourable. i particularly regret that the part of the proposal provoking this controversy among member states also affects the rest of the suggestions, which are otherwise valuable and forward—looking in themselves. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – mr szájer, do you not agree that if member states, and indeed the parliament, have conferred the power on the commission to take a decision when the member states cannot agree – remember to implement legislation that we have adopted but council is unable to agree one way or another – that it is not unreasonable that the commission should take its responsibilities and take a decision. and after all, the commission is an executive that is responsible to this parliament. it’s accountable to us. so it should take the decision and not actually try to divest itself of political responsibility through this proposal.
blue-card answer. – mr corbett, i’m not against that solution. i could very well back that. we understand at the moment that it has not moved in council for several years. this is the situation. we can push it forward, we can be enthusiastic supporters of this idea, but i would like to go with the line that vice-president šefčovič has proposed: to be creative and find some way, especially in the area where we can enhance transparency and accountability. on this point, basically all the committees who gave their opinions agree.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr šefčovič, we are among ourselves, so perhaps we can speak frankly to each other, so we will do so. you know very well that the commission has given this text because it is caught between the hammer of the council and the envelope of the big companies who say: if you do not take a decision, we will sue the commission and the european union. you are therefore obliged to decide where the council is showing appalling cowardice. we are still talking - and you have said it and we all know it here - about the health of 500 million european consumers. we are talking about chemicals, about gmos, and i say this in front of parliament, of which i am a member, we are now obliged to take objections. as you said, there are not very many yet, but there are more and more, because we are in an increasingly complex society. we are asked to decide urgently in a binary way: yes or no. this is no longer acceptable, it is no longer possible. mr šefčovič, i came to hear you first and foremost to find out whether the commission was going to continue to make this issue a priority, because it is a priority for democracy and for the citizens. we're not going to go into the details of how we can do that today, but i think that giving a bonus to those who don't vote is perhaps increasing the cowardice, but that's another debate. in any case, i was pleased to hear you say that this was a matter which remained on the commission's agenda for the coming year. i hope that parliament can help you to move forward. let me end by paying tribute to the work of my colleague richard corbett, with whom we drew up an opinion in the committee on constitutional affairs in the last term, to all the work that richard has been able to do in this parliament, and to say, in turn, how sorry i am to see members like him leaving us because of the lies of those who are there.
for the verts/ale group mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. this morning in this chamber we discussed the conference on the future of europe and we agreed that the future of europe must be more democratic, more responsive to the voice of its citizens. the comitology procedure is perhaps the most criticised european legislative procedure for its lack of democracy and transparency. unfortunately, however, its shortcomings and the abuse of this mechanism by member states are particularly evident in decision-making, especially on sensitive issues that have a direct impact on our food, the quality of the environment, human and animal health and welfare. as the responsible rapporteur for the green group's committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to urge the new commission to continue the objective set by your predecessors of reforming the committee procedure as soon as possible, ensuring transparency in decision-making, limiting the possibility for member states to avoid responsibility by abstaining from decision-making.
mr president, commissioner, i, like my colleagues, support the reform of comitology. i believe that, in the case of the commission's power to adopt implementing acts, it is very unfortunate that a considerable part of those acts have been left without the opinions of the individual member states. it has already been described here that a number of important matters modified food, pesticides, etc. are decided in these implementing acts. on the other hand, we're in a state of this sort of creeping debate that's been going on for years. we have debated this subject several times in the last parliamentary term and it would probably be worthwhile for the commission to take up this subject, which is more technical and less important because its importance is not appreciated, and to try to push this proposal forward in the council with new impetus or to obtain a clear opinion on whether certain edited material is acceptable to the council. we agree that the current situation is not satisfactory, but we feel that there is simply no will to somehow complete the process. i mean, please, it's up to you, do your best.
mr president, i think comitology is one of the amazing things about the european union that no one understands, and we all talk about... (interjection from the floor: ‘i do!’)– he does, but the public doesn’t! –(laughter)and we talk about an eu close to the people, and that’s where we are missing out a lot. we also talk about transparency and accountability and this is something that this procedure is utterly lacking. pesticides have been one of the hallmarks of the problems related to comitology. people don’t know how the governments voted, and what it ends up with is the general blame – brussels decided, it’s a brussels diktat – but at the end of the day, it’s the civil servants of the very member states, of the very governments, who are there, taking the decisions, without public scrutiny. i think this is something where we really need to change. i’m very happy to see that the commission proposal is still on the table, but what we need now is really to start to get some movement in this house, but also with a renewed initiative from the commission, so i hope that it’s going to end up on the work plan, but above all, from the council, and maybe citizens need to step up their pressure.
madam president, nigeria is a truly huge country in africa with enormous human and mineral potential, and it could soon become a major power on the african continent with which we, as the european union, must have very good relations. but in reality, nigeria as a whole is the victim of massive terrorist attacks, or its people. mostly, unfortunately, the real christians. because 80 percent of the victims are christians. but the victims of terrorism are not only christians, but of course muslims and other nationalities, and it has to be said that it is a socio-economic conflict, for example, a conflict between shepherds and farmers between those who want to drive others out of the territory so that they can graze their own cattle. we, as the european union, must help them in every way. on humanitarian aid, of course, we must also engage with the nigerian government and do more to force the country to do its job in respecting human rights and religious freedom.
in writing. i'm not a fan of britain leaving the european union. the fact that we have to vote today on the uk's withdrawal agreement is a disappointment to me. but i believe that this is not the end of our relationship. we still have a lot in common. it is important today to intensify work on both sides to ensure that the agreement is enforced and implemented in practice. i am convinced that the people of britain had no objective information in the referendum in which they decided to leave. but the vote in the european parliament was not about leaving, it was not about whether i wanted britain to leave. it was about an agreement on whether britain would leave on january 31 in an orderly and proper manner.
in writing. the activation of the european civil protection mechanism was the first response of the eu institutions to help member states combat the spread of the new coronavirus from china. through this mechanism, the eu can provide assistance to eu citizens in need anywhere in the world. for example, two planes have already been provided for the repatriation of eu citizens from the wu-chan region. this is just the beginning, as the outbreak of the dangerous coronavirus will undoubtedly increase the number of requests for assistance from member states. coordination, material assistance and, in particular, appropriate communication and exchange of information must continue at the highest quality, as these are the eu's added value. the situation cannot be underestimated, but at the same time we must do everything to avoid a panic that could damage our economy and society perhaps more than the virus itself, once the coronavirus spreads to europe. protecting people's health must come first, and all the eu institutions' efforts must be subordinated to it. our competent authorities must work with the world health organization, as well as china, the us, israel, russia and others, to accelerate the development of a vaccine, but cooperation must also be encouraged in the production and distribution of appropriate antivirals and in the repatriation of citizens. with effective cooperation and adherence to the procedures set, we could be able to protect our population from much worse health and social consequences.
madam president, yes, this is a very serious matter. it is a real and ongoing threat to the rights of hundreds of millions of people on this planet. the people, the indigenous people, who actually own their own land, have their own land, and they're often deceived by all these big companies that are trying to profit off of their land, to mine for all kinds of minerals, and to poison that land. so, really, it's not just climate change and not just poverty, but also such serious things as threatening their health through soil poisoning. but also, of course, the threat to women's rights. but also the persecution itself and the killing of activists who fight for their rights. we, as the european union, must therefore stand up and do everything we can to ensure that the rights of these indigenous peoples all over the world are also included in our international cooperation agreements with other third countries. we have to try to make it the standard. we're talking about the rule of law, the rule of law, human rights. so we have to prove it in this area.
madam president, these days we remember the victims who lost their lives during the second world war and whose lives were reduced to ashes. millions of people paid with their lives for the nazi ideology that divided people into supermen and subhumans. the ashes of jews, roma, slavs, and other europeans were mixed in the ovens of the concentration camps. all of them paid with their lives for peace in europe. it is unacceptable that we are currently silent as fascists take off their uniforms, put on their jackets, put a cross on their jackets and now sit in democratic institutions, even in this parliament. nazism and fascism have nothing to do with freedom and democracy. it's a crime. it's the seed of absolute hell, it has nothing to do with god, it's the work of the devil. we must fight against intolerance, against nazism and fascism, because we owe it to those who died in the second world war. i call on the european commission, the european council, the european parliament and all democratic institutions, including those in the member states of the european union, to immediately stop all those who spread hatred and promote nazism and fascism.
for the ecr group. madam president, one thing is indisputable about the european commission's programme, and that is that it wants to get closer to the people. but in some cases, i feel like it's unnecessary populism. such is the case, for example, with the european minimum wage project. this is a project that will keep us busy for at least two years, but it will not bring real added value, because 22 out of 28 or 27 european countries already have a minimum wage institution. and of course, those expectations of the citizens are high, especially with regard to the new member states. people expect to start getting paid a lot more overnight. so there is a natural disappointment, and that disappointment is then the water for the mill for the various nationalists who want to undermine the wonderful project of the european union. but what i appreciate about the programme is that it has got digitisation, it has got adaptation to demographic change and especially the so-called child-guarantee, because i think children in the european union need to have access to quality services. the new commission promised not to hesitate to enforce european legislation vigorously. i just want to point out that slovaks and other citizens in austria have been waiting for this approach for more than a year, which has started indexing family allowances, and therefore they are receiving less for their children, which is completely unfair.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. mr vice-president of the european commission, you have presented a very ambitious programme with very ambitious figures. if we achieve them, it will be very good and we will be an example to the whole world. however, everything must be done to ensure that this transformation is as equitable as possible. so that, as we move towards a greener economy, we also bear in mind the social implications of this transformation. you have offered instruments such as the just transition fund, which will certainly be a good instrument, but it will need to be used in a way that really benefits the regions that need it most. and that means that if countries are going to put forward projects for these regions, they need to be helped to really get into countries like slovakia, poland, romania or bulgaria, that is, countries that are perhaps most affected by this transformation, because their energy mix is made up of gas, it's made up of nuclear, and at the same time they still rely on heavy industry, on mining industry, and especially on energy-intensive industry. so let us do everything together, with our own strength and with the member states, to make this transformation as bearable as possible for people.
for the ecr group. madam president, in recent years we have seen a slight improvement in the way fiscal rules are being implemented. most member states have managed to reduce their debt relative to gdp since the european debt crisis in 2012. some politicians are calling for more flexibility in fiscal rules, presumably referring in particular to higher deficits and debts. they prefer a short-term horizon, with the prospect of re-election in the next elections, rather than the long-term horizon necessary for planning sound public finances and the future of the people. i believe that what we need is not more exceptions to allow the rules to be circumvented, but a stronger framework for them, for their governance and their enforcement. the budgetary rules are in place for an important reason, namely to reduce the fiscal blackmail of the member states and to prepare for future crises through low debt.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you all the members of the parliament very much for their interventions. i think this is just the beginning of a debate that will have in the next five or six months. if i want to find common views in this discussion, i understand that at least on three general things there is agreement. first, that this rule should be reviewed. second, that we should change the fact that they are too procyclical. and third, that we should try to make them less complex. this is a limited base, but it is a base of bridging differences. we have to avoid the idea of the fact that we have two different ideological positions – pro—stability against pro—growth – paralysing all the chance that we have to review our rules in the right direction. i think that the parliament can give a strong contribution to bridge these ideological differences. there are strong differences that i perfectly understand, but if we are working on reducing complexity, fighting against procyclicality and changing these rules, i think we will work in the right direction. my last point is this: is all this exercise connected to the main defining objective that the new commission with the parliament decided, which is the green transition? my answer is definitely ‘yes’, because it’s very difficult to understand how we will be able to lead this transition without having a strong commitment from the point of view of public investment. this is the reason why i think there is a connection between our targets on the green transition and the review of our economic governance. so thank you again, and i think this is a first step in a discussion that we will continue with the parliament, with the committees in the next weeks and months.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – the european commission initiative to review the eu’s economic governance makes sense but by not going far enough, risks being futile. especially with regards to the eurozone. a major goal in eurozone guidance is that of achieving upward socioeconomic convergence between different communities and regions. the complexity of rules defining such guidance has hindered efforts to achieve the goal. which is why they should be simplified. commission proposals on this issue are worthwhile and should be followed up on. but i’m afraid they will not get us far. stalemate on economic governance results from the incapacity of the eurozone to balance measures which dictate austerity to regions that systemically record structural financial deficits – with measures which have remained soft on regions that show an equally systemic propensity to accumulate surpluses. a monetary zone that functions properly needs to achieve such balance. clearly current rules in the eurozone are not achieving it. it is a basic reason why economic and social development in the eurozone lags. we are experiencing all the constraints of a common monetary area but hardly most of the flexibilities it could provide. meanwhile, the pain is being borne by those who are least able to afford it.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on assessment of the revised enlargement methodology proposal of the european commission (2020/2554(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the european parliament for adding this very important issue to the agenda of the plenary immediately after the adoption of the commission proposal on the revised enlargement methodology. this is a good opportunity here to present our idea, how to enhance the accession process and how to give a credible eu perspective for the western balkans. let me emphasise that for our geopolitical commission, the full engagement with our neighbours is a top priority. europe needs to have a strong united voice in the world and it needs to play its geopolitical role to the fore, especially when it comes to its neighbourhood. this is especially valid where we must engage strongly in pursuit of peace, stability and prosperity. this is in our own interest. it is also a question of credibility. the priority of this commission is to accelerate progress in the western balkans, keeping a credible perspective for future accession. therefore, we are working on three tracks. the first of these is the communication on the revised enlargement methodology, which i will outline for you in more detail shortly. the second track is opening discussion negotiations with north macedonia and albania, before the western balkans summit in zagreb. ahead of the zagreb summit, we will complete the picture with the third track by presenting a major economic and investment development plan for the region. the objective will be to speed up the building of a solid and resilient economy and bring these countries faster and closer to our own standards. when it comes to the first track, the revised enlargement methodology is based on four main principles, four principles that should work both for the accession countries and also for our own member states. first, the process has to be more credible. countries need to deliver on the reforms they promised, and the eu needs to deliver when they do so. to help credibility, you will see an ever-stronger focus on the fundamental freedoms and reforms, as this is the core for real transformation. this means the rule of law, but also functioning of democratic institutions, public administration reform and economic criteria. the second principle is about putting the political nature of the process front and centre. we intend to ensure top-level engagement with the candidate countries through regular eu-western balkans summits and ministerial meetings. we want to involve member states more strongly and give them better opportunities to monitor and review the process, to support and keep track of the fundamental reforms needed. the third principle addresses the need to make the whole process more dynamic, with a stronger focus on core sectors. clustering chapters by policy fields will allow for more thorough political discussions on thematic areas. it will also allow us to identify opportunities for early alignment and involvement in eu policies, such as our digital agenda or our trans-european networks in transport and energy. i also want to highlight that when important reforms have been implemented already before the opening, then the timeframe between opening the cluster and closing individual chapters should be limited, preferably within a year, fully dependent on the progress of the reforms. this is an important political offer from our side to the whole region. if they deliver, we will also be ready to deliver. the cluster on fundamentals, rule of law, economic criteria and public administration reform will of course take a central role. it will be the first chapter to be opened and it will be the last to be closed. and sufficient progress will be needed in these areas before other clusters can be closed. the fourth principle is about making the process more predictable for both sides. this will mean ensuring that candidate countries have greater clarity on the conditions they need to meet and what is the positive impact when there is progress, and what are the negative consequences in case of non-delivery. we need clear and tangible incentives to encourage reforms. if countries move on agreed reform priorities sufficiently, citizens should see the benefits of accelerated integration and phasing into eu policies, markets and programmes, combined with increased funding and investments. at the same time, member states need to be confident that there is reversibility and corrective measures will be taken where reforms go off track. this will be done through more decisive measures, sanctioning and serious or prolonged stagnation or backsliding. finally, i have to reiterate that while we are strengthening and improving the process, the goal remains the same: accession and full eu membership. in parallel to this, as the second strand, the commission stands by the recommendations to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania, and we hope that these can be opened before the western balkans summit in zagreb. both countries have delivered on what they were asked. during my recent visit to skopje and tirana i underlined the importance of reforms and called for their implementation to continue. both countries have engaged in further reform efforts. at the same time, to be a credible partner, the eu needs to deliver on its promises as well. the commission will give detailed information on the progress made by these two countries still in february, in order to prepare the ground for the council for the decision. we are convinced that any further postponement would entail a strong risk, undermining the stability of the entire region. we would also risk further manipulation by third country actors and others offering false alternative narratives. finally, on the third track, these substantially transformative reforms that the western balkan countries need to carry out can be best supported by solid and accelerated economic growth and developing functioning market economies. therefore, as input to the zagreb summit, the commission would propose a new economic-based policy approach as the cornerstone of a forward-looking agenda for the region. our objective is to intensify our presence in the western balkans, to increase investment and to help to close the economic development gap between us. we have to look at what concrete measures we can take to bring forward investments in the western balkans, to enhance access to the eu single market, create jobs and entrepreneur opportunities, improve the business and the investment climate and stop the brain drain from the region. as you can see, this is an ambitious agenda for the region. we will need the very strong political support of this house to deliver it. we collectively have to regain trust and credibility. this means we have to treat our western balkans partners more and more as future member states, which is our commonly agreed destiny. this is for the benefit of the european union as a whole.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, officer, i have to go. i welcome the commission's proposal for a procedure which is likely to bring the enlargement of the western balkans out of the deadlock. it can serve as a bridge between those member states which support the opening of accession negotiations and those which are sceptical about enlargement. the new enlargement methodology is effective, results-oriented and sufficiently flexible to benefit montenegro and serbia respectively and to accelerate the negotiations with this key enlargement country in the western balkans. i commend commissioner várhelyi for coming up with a well-founded solution in a very short time, just in time to resolve the deadlock at the eu summit in march and to open accession negotiations with western macedonia and albania before the eu-western balkans summit in zagreb. both countries have delivered, and now it is time for the union to deliver on its promises, so as not to lose its credibility. any action by the commission to promote successful enlargement is essential, as the future of the western balkan countries, the security of our continent and the credibility of the eu are at stake.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate commissioner várhelyi on the document presented and the efforts invested. the new methodologies were set only three months after the european council meeting at which two western balkans countries were denied the possibility of starting negotiations. this demonstrates how european union institutions can still respond at times of crisis. it goes without saying that the primacy of democracy and the rule of law should be placed at the very centre of the enlargement process by opening first and closing last chapters related to the judiciary, corruption and organised crime, as well as respect for human rights and media freedom. i agree that the new approach introduces some better elements. above all, it allows negotiating countries to use european union programmes before accession, such as the trans-european transport network (ten-t) or the european green deal. in essence, the new approach does not differ much in substance from the existing negotiation framework, which became more complex with every new enlargement. it’s also welcome that negotiating countries can already decide for themselves whether they want to negotiate according to the new methodology or not. for example, montenegro has been negotiating for eight years, and only one chapter remains to be opened. member states are invited to participate more systematically in the accession process then has previously been the case. that’s why i hope this document will convince more sceptical members to open negotiations with north macedonia and albania, hopefully at the march council meeting. it’s clear that the decision to postpone the opening of negotiations directly called into question reform processes in these countries, which have been required for years. that was directly denying support for those who implemented them. the new methodology offers a sustainable model, in that it is now up to member states to deliver on their promises and thus to restore credibility to the enlargement process as such.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, this time i want to start from the end of my speech, mr commissioner, from the failure of last october’s council. in my opinion, we cannot afford another failure in march. i am in agreement with you when you say that we have to learn our lesson and not promise something that we cannot deliver. but today, we have to see how we can go forward together and deliver on the european aspirations of the people of the western balkans, and i hope this time we will not see any last—minute surprises. it is too early to come to a general conclusion on how the new methodology will work, but in order to enhance the effectiveness of the accession process, it should provide dynamism rather than complicating the enlargement process and this must mean a stronger focus on fundamental reforms, the organisation of the chapters in thematic clusters and clear conditionality. i am very much in favour of this new process, but i do not want to see this new idea turn into a new condition that will again leave the region in the backyard of the eu for a long time. this is what we have tried to propose in our political group. we recently adopted the renew europe policy paper on the western balkans, which is based on our values and understanding of enlargement. we want the citizens and the societies of the candidate countries to be more closely associated with and benefit from the accession process. we want to integrate our partners there at an earlier stage in key policies, like the green deal, digital policies and connectivity, and to give them the chance to reform and benefit long before actual accession. the european perspective is a strong driving force for the reforms of the region. realising that our group has always pursued a clear and consistent enlargement policy, we believe that reforms related to the eu should go hand in hand with the enlargement process. we need to reform the european union not because of the western balkan countries, but because of the european union itself.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his presentation. as the standing rapporteur for serbia and as the delegation chair for montenegro, i really welcome the revised methodology on enlargement. i also welcome it as the first step: as the first step in a journey, a journey towards making enlargement a successful european political priority. our partners in the western balkans must regain trust in their european perspective, and engaged communication is the key to this trust. i am therefore very happy that already last week, on a joint visit, we demonstrated this trust in belgrade, when representatives of this parliament and you yourself, commissioner, visited our serbian partners. now it is time to bring the council and the member states on board. we must be united when it comes to enlargement, and the first key step is to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania by march this year. only then can we really engage on the fundamentals. being united in enlargement means that we can succeed.
madam president, yes, macedonia has also changed its name to suit the european union, but it still has not been invited to the negotiations because the french president, with the support of denmark and the netherlands, has blocked the process of opening these negotiations. i think that was a very bad signal, and that is why i welcome the initiative of the european commission, which will certainly restore at least part of our credibility as a global player, which is trying to satisfy at least its countries that are applying for membership and allow them to do so, provided they meet all the prescribed criteria, of course. this new methodology will also make the process more dynamic, more transparent, more transparent, i.e. the states will always know where they stand, what they have to do and will no longer be surprised by unpleasant surprises, as was the case in the autumn when these negotiations were due to start but did not. i think there is also a guarantee for the member states that ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i support the parliament's resolution on automated decision-making in relation to consumer protection and the free movement of goods and services. council directive 85/374 has been protecting consumers against damage caused by defective products for 35 years and it is very important to redefine the terms such as damage, product, fault, defect of the product in the light of new automated processes. it should be borne in mind that when making online purchases, the consumer does not communicate directly with the service provider. liability for damage is closely linked to damage and, in particular, to the burden of proof, which should be objectively borne by the supplier and should always include the burden of proof. the updating of these concepts must, in fact, be given proper, professionally qualified attention and not be subject to any lobbying pressure. this is essential to protect the consumer as the weaker party. however, it is also necessary to deal with the new definition of the terms 'claim', 'right of withdrawal' and 'refund of postage'. it must always be clear to the consumer which body he can also bring his consumer rights before in any legal dispute.
for the ecr group. mr president, what small businesses need is less red tape, a simple tax system, good enforcement of the law and protection of competition. the adoption of many positive measures is thus in the hands of the member states. but for businesses to succeed across borders, they also need a functioning european market without unnecessary barriers. one of these barriers is access to finance, which is still problematic outside the member state concerned. in this respect, the clearer rules for the european capital market will be a positive step. a measure of this type will benefit both small businesses and the european consumers they are intended to serve, as the two groups are economically in the same boat.
mr president, yes, the implementation of the so-called green pact, or the transformation to a greener and more digital economy, will be a great burden for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy, but on the other hand are also very vulnerable to the crises that may occur in the near future. but what do smes need? they need, above all, law enforcement, a good tax system and protection of competition. they need a good legislative framework, and it is therefore good that the european commission is coming up with this initiative. and consequently, they need a stable legislative environment, because smes do not have the capacity to absorb quickly any new changes that come along. it is therefore good that the european commission has adopted the rule of one legislative measure adopted, the other rejected, or, in other words, struck out. because this, this bureaucracy, is perhaps the biggest burden on small and medium-sized businesses. they also need access to finance, and there are different funds, and we have to tailor those funds to their needs.
mr president, i understand the concerns of all colleagues who say that it is not good if we invest again in projects that include fossil fuels. on the other hand, it must be said that this fourth list is an improvement on the third list. indeed, the third list contained more than 40% of gas projects, more than 40% more, and it should also be said that the fourth list contains therefore less than 40% and also contains much more electrical interconnectors and smart electricity grids. i know it's not, it's far from this fourth list to be perfect, but it's a good way to start meeting those goals that we set for ourselves in our green deal. it must be said, however, that if we approve this fourth list, we must insist that the commission submit a revision of the regulation on transeuropean energy networks, which sets out the criteria for selecting these programmes and for selecting projects for the future. i am also in favour of moving forward and of the fifth list including, in particular, those projects which focus on the use of renewable resources and, of course, electrical interconnectors and, of course, all intelligent networks. it's the only way to deliver on what we promised in our, in our green deal.
mr president, commissioner, i would be so happy if we would have time to wait until the new 5th list comes out and it’s going to be all green and better, but we should listen to the science. we all say that we listen to the science and not to the people on the street, so let’s listen to the science. let’s actually realise that we don’t really have that time. we don’t have time to wait for the 5th list. we actually have to use every euro we have for the transition. we cannot afford a stranded investment that we’re going to face in a number of those projects on the 4th list. of course, the situation is not black and white. what we see is an increased number (of course it’s the 3rd list) of good projects. so what should we do? yes, i believe we should reject this list, and it’s up to your commission to immediately then come up with a new version of the 4th list: a version that would be climate-proof and green deal-proof. and i hope this is something that you can make for the europeans and for the planet.
mr president, in order to ensure a fair transformation of our economy to a greener and more digital one, we must do everything we can to make sure that this transformation is truly fair for all. this means that the most vulnerable groups of the population will not pay it and that it will not be paid twice. this means that they will not receive any aid from the european union and at the same time energy prices will increase. we have to take care of all this. at the same time, the instruments presented by the european commission are a step in the right direction. and that includes the just transition fund, for example. here again, we have to make sure that the money from this fund goes where we need it most, to the regions that will be most affected by this transformation and to the people who will suffer the most. we need to be able to really help these regions, but also the countries that are working with these regions and with the european commission to develop these transformation plans, which must be successful.
madam president, i would really like to reflect on what our future relationship with the united kingdom should look like. we must really strive for the highest, the highest possible level of relations and strive for something more than a simple treaty or a free trade agreement. we must remain reliable partners in these negotiations, and we must also be reliable in pushing foreign policy priorities. we need fair competition so that there is no dumping, so that we can really trade together without any barriers, but at the same time the uk also cannot, for example, apply excessive state aid, cannot, cannot relax from its high european, hitherto european, social and environmental standards, but it must adhere to its commitments in the fight against climate change. but first and foremost, it is about ensuring the highest possible level of rights for our citizens who study, work or trade there. we have to give them the security to live their best lives as they have lived them.
madam president, although vietnam is not a democratic country, i support the treaty with it for the following reasons: in 2009, vietnam was the 32nd largest importer of eu goods into eu countries, in 2008 it was already in 10th place. this change has been and will be made with or without a contract. the difference is that if it goes through with the treaty, it dramatically increases the chance that vietnam will be able to push for more democracy through the treaty. with the uk leaving the eu, the risk of trade space and therefore economic growth potential being reduced has increased. moreover, the eu still has the option of imposing sanctions or even withdrawing from the treaty if democracy in vietnam does not improve. i believe that ten years after these treaties are signed, vietnam will be much more democratic and closer to a market economy than it is today. it will be richer, less poor, more market-based, and better protected for human rights and the environment.
madam president, i will support the agreement concluded with the socialist republic of vietnam, and for this reason, on 5 february 2020, i attended a conference in brussels with the participation of representatives of bangladesh. the head of the bangladesh garment manufacturers and exporters association, among others, stated: acceptance of the eu-vietnam agreements would deprive bangladesh of roughly $13 billion worth of textile exports to the us annually. it is obvious to all of us that the european union is the largest importer of garments from bangladesh. if vietnam, as bangladesh's main competitor, gets zero import duties to the eu, bangladesh's market share will be significantly reduced. i believe that the opponents of the eu-vietnam agreements are not impressed by the large-scale cooperation in the clothing industry. we all know what the working conditions are for the underage children in the production of the clothes we wear in bangladesh. and one more thing, i'm one of the few meps who remembers the vietnam war. remember my lai village, remember dien bien phu, we owe it to vietnam, to the heroic people of vietnam, to make this deal. failure to conclude this agreement would mean the vietnamese nation being bombed again. that's all i have to say.
in writing. vietnam is a dynamic southeast asian country of strategic importance for the eu's trade relations with asean. moreover, the government of this asian tiger supports a multilateral approach to international trade, and unlike some other countries, vietnam has also made commitments to combat climate change, making it an ally for us in decarbonisation, where the eu wants to be a world leader. the adoption of four resolutions on the ratification of free trade agreements and investment protection will raise the level of our relations further, serve as a lever for further development as well as for further democratization of political relations in the country. many meps and ngos blame vietnam for its poor level of protection of human rights and labour law, but hanoi has made undeniable progress in these areas as well. vietnam has recently joined other ilo conventions and has carried out labour law reform. further progress is expected in ensuring the right to collective bargaining. vietnam must make further efforts to ensure fundamental human rights and freedoms, in particular the right to freedom of expression and assembly. the eu and its institutions cannot turn a blind eye to the shortcomings in this area, but ratification of the agreements is certainly not only beneficial for trade but also for the quality of life of the vietnamese people.
mr. speaker, i'm a believer, and many of you are believers, too. even those who sympathize with fascism and nazism pretend to be religious. but god wants each of us to be different. if the neo-nazis were in power today, believe me, half of us wouldn't be here. we may differ in religion, we may differ in culture, we may differ in language, we may differ in skin color, but the color of our blood is the same. in the veins of the jew, the roman, and every european, even the neo-nazi, there is red blood. millions of people have died at the hands of those who thought themselves perfect. in many lands, the nazis and the fascists used god to advance their perverted ideology. in my country, slovakia, during world war ii, the fascists justified their atrocities with the slogan "for god, for the nation!" but god is not hate. on one side, ladies and gentlemen, there is rich, prosperous europe, on the other side, corruption, poor, miserable regions where people don't work, where schools fail to prepare children for the labor market, where people don't have sewerage or access roads, and some people even drink water from the creek. this is also the picture of the european union in the 21st century. if we ignore these problems, the fascists will take them over. another way to defeat the ideology of a superior race is for politicians to begin to address the real problems of people. at the same time, however, it is important that we view the ideology of a superior race not as an opinion but as a crime. the one who plays games, proclaims that one race is more perfect than another, that's not about freedom of speech. it's about crime. it's a crime. all democratic institutions must confront this view as a crime. history has shown where extremism can go if we allow it to grow. history has shown that extremism grows when given the opportunity. let's not give an agenda to extremists that we can solve ourselves. extremists in many countries point to corruption, the failure to address migration, or poor roma communities. europe must take a strong stand on the problems that are affecting the people of europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am very grateful for the dedication and support of the european parliament for this issue. i say to the house: i would like to react on several comments. indeed, you quoted here the survey of fundamental rights agency and eurobarometer, which really show alarming and shocking figures. when you ask the jewish citizen in the eu what is his or her main concern, the answer is security. when you ask the european people who are not of jewish origin, they will say ‘we have concerns about our health, our jobs, our family’. and this is really very alarming that the jewish people have such an elementary fear and that they plan to leave europe. jewish people leaving europe has never been a good sign, and this is not a europe we want. and i think it was ms ries, who left already, she asked whether we are doing enough. i regret to say ‘no, we are not doing enough yet’, and we have all of us the obligation to do much more. the commission worked hard to deliver or achieve some tangible results in the fight against anti-semitism. we decided to promote the adoption of the international holocaust remembrance alliance definition of anti-semitism, which now is used also by the majority of the member states. we are openly speaking and addressing the sources of anti-semitism and it was also mentioned here: it is far-right, far-left, it is islamist radicalism and also old conspiracy theories. that’s why we urged the member states, the ministers of home affairs, to adopt the decision to create the strategies on a member states level. the anti-semitism strategies, which will bring very concrete plans especially into areas, in the security area and in education. the strategies are now in the in the process of creation and under the german presidency, we will look at these strategies and will decide on how to continue further. we want to see concrete measures accompanied with money. on security, i think it is absolutely intolerable that the jewish communities have to finance their own security and the protection of jewish premises, such as schools and synagogues. we have to do much more on education. it should also be reflected in the national strategies and accompanied by money, and here comes also european money because we have in the values programme a dedicated amount for education in this field. i was also in auschwitz two weeks ago, commemorating the 75 years after liberation of the camp and i was listening to authentic testimonies of the survivors. we will not be able to hear these testimonies from authentic people very soon. we have to find a way how to explain to the younger generation what the holocaust was, and to change the narrative, because we keep discussing about the results of the holocaust, the horrifying statistical figures. but we have to start speaking seriously about the sources of the holocaust. how it started, because this is exactly what marian turski spoke about in auschwitz-birkenau, at that commemoration event. he didn’t speak about the past, he spoke about the present. how it can happen again. that it will be innocent at the beginning, slow and it will be driven by our passivity and our being indifferent. he warned very strongly against being indifferent. the last comment on your contributions on online hate speech. we have an agreement with the big players in the tech industry to remove hate speech, but it cannot be enough. there must be a ‘crime and punishment’ principle also online. that’s why i urged very strongly the law enforcement authorities in all the member states to go after these cases and to show that it is not possible just to rely on the fact that, or the impression that, online has no law. we have to do much more. law enforcement authorities have started to be more active. but what they keep telling me is that in europe, in the 21st century, crime has no boarders, the digital area has no more borders and that law enforcement authorities are trapped by the national borders. and they cannot reach for the evidence of crime in another member state. that’s why i wanted to ask you to look at again at the regulation on evidence which the commission developed because if this is adopted, it will help a lot to go after crime wherever it happens in the eu.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me assure you once again that the presidency and the council as a whole rejects any form of anti-semitism, racism and hatred. we have a legal framework in place which needs to be effectively implemented in practice, but we also need to support it with targeted measures to prevent and tackle intolerance, such as education, public debate and counter narratives. the council will continue to follow the matter closely, and i can assure you that we pay particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate.
i would like to thank all of you for the way in which this debate has been conducted and to thank each and every one of you for your comments. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. in recent years, the number of incidents of anti-semitic violence in the eu member states has unfortunately increased significantly. actions such as the recent attack on the jewish synagogue in halle, germany, the desecration of jewish monuments and cemeteries and the attack on the jewish museum in brussels are not isolated incidents. according to the european human rights agency, there is an increase in violence against jews in several european countries, precisely because they are jews. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process. such incidents only cause fear and remind us of the nightmarish times of the past that we try to forget. local communities, civil society and education can play an important role in preventing and combating all forms of hatred and intolerance. schools are a unique environment for teaching the principles of tolerance and respect, since they can be addressed to all children from an early age. we must act unitedly and with determination to combat this scourge; it's a duty we all owe.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the continuing threat to the rule of law in poland (2020/2561 ((rsp)). i do not need to repeat the handling of the 'blue card' and the applications for the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, they are well known.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me stress once more that the rule of law plays a crucial role in all our democracies. as recalled by the eu’s strategic agenda, the rule of law is a key guarantee that our common values are well protected and complied with. democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights cannot be seen in isolation from one another. these elements are interlinked, interdependent and mutually reinforcing. one cannot exist without the others. it is a joint responsibility of the eu institutions and the member states alike to ensure that respect for the rule of law is strengthened and that the rule of law remains the cornerstone of our common project. the independence of the judiciary is of crucial importance for the rule of law. it is also essential to ensure the application of eu law and the sound functioning of our common eu legal order. as regards the article 7 procedure concerning poland triggered by the commission on 27 february 2018, as i had the opportunity to tell you when we discussed this topic at your january part-session, three hearings took place in june, september and december 2018 at the general affairs council. subsequently the council was kept regularly informed of the developments on the ground in poland. updates on the state of play were discussed at the general affairs council repeatedly in the course of 2019, in february, april, july, september and december. the council remains seized of this matter and our presidency is ready to continue proceeding at the general affairs council. at the same time, we very much hope that a continuing dialogue at the political level between the commission and poland will bear concrete results.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, you will remember that on 15 january commissioner reynders and i updated you on the state of play of the rule of law in poland. since then, the commission has been in contact with the polish authorities. commissioner reynders met a representative of the polish ministry of justice on 24 january, and i visited warsaw on 28 january. at that occasion, i made the speakers of the sejm and the senate, the minister of justice, the first president of the supreme court of poland, the president of the constitutional tribunal, and the ombudsman. i carefully listened to the arguments of the polish government and explained to them the commission’s stance. the commission is committed and available to have an open and fair dialogue to resolve the issues at hand. at the same time, the commission will always fulfil its responsibility as the guardian of the treaties. to that end, it will make use of infringement procedures whenever there are issues of compatibility with union law. likewise, the article 7 process continues as long as the situation points to serious systemic threats to the rule of law. at our last debate in this house, we informed you in particular about the draft new law governing the functioning of the judiciary. i explained that the draft legislation touches upon matters such as the independence of the judiciary, further raising the commission’s concerns in this area. for this reason, i sent a letter to the polish authorities on 19 december 2019. the letter recalled that the commission wants to work with the polish authorities to strengthen the rule of law by preventing problems and by working towards resolving them when they arise. i also invited all state organs not to take forward the proceedings on the new draft legislation before carrying out all the necessary consultations. on 16 january, the venice commission issued an urgent opinion on this new law raising serious concerns and recommending not to adopt it. on 24 january the new law on the judiciary was adopted by the sejm, and on 4 february the president of the republic signed the law. this law raises a number of concerns as regards the rule of law. as noted by the venice commission, there is concern that this new law may further undermine judicial independence in poland. it also raises concerns of compatibility with eu law and the commission is now assessing these issues in detail. i can assure you that the commission is committed to ensure the full respect of eu law and will take all necessary measures in that regard. in addition to the adoption of the new law, a number of other developments took place. on 15 january, the supreme court issued two judgments implementing the preliminary ruling of the european court of justice regarding the independence of the disciplinary chamber. the supreme court confirmed the position taken in its ruling of 5 december 2019 and stated that the disciplinary chamber is not an independent court within the meaning of eu and national law. furthermore, in a resolution of 23 january the supreme court decided that the judges appointed at the request of the new national council for the judiciary, are not permitted to adjudicate cases. the resolution also invalidated all the rulings handed down by members of the disciplinary chamber. another important development is the fact that the constitutional tribunal has been seized on the constitutionality of the approach on judicial independence that had been developed by the supreme court following the court of justice preliminary ruling on 19 november 2019. on 28 january 2020, the constitutional tribunal took an interim decision aimed at suspending the applicability of the supreme court’s resolution. as regards the disciplinary regime, you will remember that on 14 january the commission decided to make a request for interim measures, asking the court of justice to order poland to suspend the functioning of the disciplinary chamber. meanwhile, i can only observe that the disciplinary chamber continues to operate. to conclude, i regret to say that these recent developments show that the situation is very serious. this is also reflected in the recent decision of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe to open a monitoring procedure over the functioning of poland’s democratic institutions and the rule of law. at the same time, i want to reiterate that the commission remains ready to continue a dialogue with the polish authorities to solve the issues at hand. during my visit to poland, the authorities expressed openness for having such dialogue both at political and technical level. i trust that we can embark on an open discussion with poland. respect for the rule of law is a matter for both eu institutions and member states, and it is an essential element for the functioning of the internal market based on mutual trust and recognition.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is telling of the urgency of the situation that we are back here discussing poland today. we are here because polish citizens are europeans too, and they are no less deserving of the same protection and the same rights as anyone in sweden, italy or germany. where every avenue for justice available to them on a national level has been blocked, neutered or taken over, then we will not shy away from playing our role. we are having this discussion now as a measure of last resort, as an appeal to the polish government to choose dialogue over confrontation, to choose justice over prejudice, and to choose european values over the failed populism of the past. i take no satisfaction in pointing out the irony of the fact that the last time the judicial system in poland was under such pressure from the government was before 1989. what this polish government has done is move to the past. they have used the same tired tactics of regression and oppression that fly in the face of everything europeans have fought against and everything that europe stands for today. but, if that is what the government symbolises, then the brave judges stand for exactly the opposite and we look to those judges with respect and honour. their bravery to their oath is a true symbol of the polish courage that the world admires. there are consequences to being an eu member state. there are rules of this club that states agreed to follow. so now the commission must use all the possible tools to immediately apply interim measures to prevent further repression, to protect the european way and to protect the polish people. the disciplinary chamber, the ‘muzzle law’, the continued anti-european path of the government means that poland is drifting away and we are here extending a hand. do not turn your backs on europe. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, vice-president jourová, as you know, i have the honour of chairing the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which is debating the implementation of the principles enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union: the rule of law, democracy, not majority rule but respect for minorities, political pluralism and the right of the opposition to dissent, but which requires separation of powers and independence of the judiciary. that is why we have unfortunately had to implement article 7 in relation to hungary. and again, with poland, which is the one we are dealing with now. because in poland we have seen a series of legislative reforms which seriously threaten the independence of the judiciary: the judicial bureau, the disciplinary chamber, which has been declared unconstitutional and incompatible with european law by the court of justice of the european union, and the threats of sanctions against judges who dare to dissent, whose dramatic testimony we have heard in this very european parliament. that is why we wholeheartedly support you in pursuing and ensuring that you carry out the mandate of the libe commission to have a permanent framework mechanism framework for fundamental rights, democracy and rule of law which is objective, permanent, comprehensive, involving all member states and which regularly reviews compliance with the principles proclaimed in european law and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we cannot, under any circumstances, allow what has been described as a constitutional breakdown, that is to say, an anticonstitutional populist backsliding in any member state of the european union. certainly not in poland.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i remember when we had this debate last time, four weeks ago. i remember saying that the situation in poland is unprecedented and that in fact never in the history of the eu has any member state government exerted so much control over the judiciary. now here we are, four weeks later, and the situation is even worse. poland is now the first member state where applying eu law can actually get judges fired. worst of all, the constitutional court, which is supposed to be the ultimate guardian of checks and balances, is actually doing the government’s bidding in its war on independent judges. time is indeed running out because, if the supreme court is fully captured, which seems to be where we are headed, then it could spell the end of the separation of powers in one of our member states. this is why the eu must indeed act. as has been said, this is not to punish poland or the polish government. this is for one simple reason: we must act to protect the civil and democratic rights of eu citizens, in this case polish citizens. i often hear – and we’ll hear it here as well – that there’s a western bias in our approach to poland and that people in western europe can’t understand the legal tradition and what it means to inherit the communist judiciary and try to reform it. so let me say, as a slovak politician and as someone whose parents and family were actually persecuted by the communist judiciary, that judicial independence and rule of law is not a matter of legal tradition, but is a core constitutional principle of the european union. (applause)
madam president, commissioner jourová, mr reynders, commissioner for justice, mrs brnjac, secretary of state for european affairs, ladies and gentlemen, these are the masts produced in gdansk which support the 27 european flags on the courtyard of our parliament. we respect the polish people. we no longer recognize him through his government. this new disciplinary regime against judges who are reluctant to the judicial reforms introduced by the current government is not acceptable. we are witnessing the gradual dismantling, brick by brick, of historical achievements. these are the pillars of the rule of law and our democratic model. but, ladies and gentlemen, we need to strengthen the area of freedom and justice, we need strong judicial institutions to implement ambitious, important texts, such as the removal of terrorist content online or the use of electronic evidence by judges. madam commissioner, what action will you take to put an end to this situation which is undermining the rule of law in europe?
madam president, madam vice-president jourová, i am a proud european from central europe, a region where some 30 years ago our leaders followed a political vision of a return to democratic and free europe. let’s remember: central and eastern europe’s return to europe has changed the european union fundamentally and for the better. peace and democracy have spread across the continent, and the european sense of dignity, reliable rules and due justice should nowadays be the same across the different parts of our union. the problem is that it is not. as a slovak member of this house, i am concerned about the quality of justice and credibility of european rules across the whole union, and therefore i am standing here to defend the independence of both polish and european justice. do believe me, and i’m saying this is a fellow central european: there is no hidden agenda other than our concern for quality of democracy and credibility of rule of law in poland and our union. dear colleagues, for the sake of all europeans, we cannot risk the return of a misuse of justice that will undo europe as we know it now.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear presidency, 100 000 puppies – that’s the approximate estimate of the number of puppies exported from my country, slovakia, every year. that’s just the export, and it’s an estimate because a large part of it is illegal trade: trade that is not only a problem for animal welfare of the puppies, of the kittens and other companion animals; trade that is also a problem from the point of view of organised crime, that i actually have witnessed first-hand as part of the animal welfare movement. the same organised crime that’s handling people, that’s handling heroin and weapons, is also handling puppies. it sounds weird, but that’s the case. it’s also a problem of the tax losses, and above all, it’s also problem of human health. there is a new phenomenon that is now dominating the entire trade, and that’s the online platforms. and that’s what makes it even more of a european problem. that’s why we need the european commission to step up its efforts and to really provide proper guidance for identification and registration of animals across the borders, and for the member states to actually start properly implementing and enforcing the regulation that’s out there, especially the animal health law. because what we face is a crisis, and what we need is action, not words.
in writing. the illegal trade in animals often means torture, pain, and blood. we have heard about illegal trafficking in several eu member states, such as spain and greece. our member countries need strong legislation and support. the illegal trade in animals is comparable to other forms of the black economy, such as the drug and arms trade. it is estimated that the sector in question is next to these illegal areas. i also want to draw attention to the sale of souvenirs of animal origin. animals are still being killed for ivory, fur, or other artifacts. the european union also needs to address this form of unfair practices.
madam president, yes, fighting climate change is probably the next highest priority. however, it should be borne in mind that the addition of new priorities does not mean that older priorities such as cohesion lose their importance, quite the contrary. the citizens, the inhabitants of our less developed regions, expect that the european union's aid will help to raise the standard of living in their regions. we must therefore do everything we can to find new instruments to finance new priorities, that is, new money from the national budget, whether it be achieved by increasing contributions from the member states or by new own resources such as a carbon tax. we must therefore also do everything we can to communicate this to our citizens. i understand the so-called net contributors to the european budget, that they do not want to pay more, that it is difficult to communicate. but it is also important to emphasise to their citizens that their economies also benefit from our european union, because it is not just about the budget, but about our cohesion, our cohesion, and also about our credibility.
madam president, it seems to me that we are in such a peculiar paradoxical situation that on the one hand we are experiencing this enormous, growing pressure from the citizens on gender equality and on the other hand the situation remains, in fact, alarming in many member states of the european union. if you look at the numbers and the economic indicators, in fact, in every one of them, women are worse off than men. they are paid 16% less than their colleagues in the same positions, they are twice as underrepresented in management as men, and of course, not to mention workplace problems like discrimination, sexual harassment, which they often fear to report. and now it seems to me that this is no longer a question of ideology or big debates, but a question of basic social justice. how can we tolerate a situation in which half the citizens of the european union do not have the same conditions and the same opportunities to live and work? so i just hope that the strategy that you're putting together will at least help to catch up with the growing civic pressure and the politicians themselves.
madam president, the gender equality strategy must be something that will continue to be a great inspiration for all member states, and it should be at least a political commitment for them and, in some areas at least, legally binding. i will at least insist that it is unthinkable and very unfair that women are getting lower wages and pensions than men, and even in the public sector within the european union countries. we really need to work on this. i also think that reconciling family and working life for women is very important, that women have greater and easier access for their children to nursery schools, that these nursery schools are not only financially accessible, but also have sufficient capacity. and then, of course, there's access to health care. discrimination against roma women was also mentioned. we really need to end this as soon as possible. and of course, we must fight all forms of violence, domestic violence, sexual harassment in the workplace and similar unpleasant sexual references that women often encounter even now.
mr. president, poor women are on the margins of society today. i also want to draw attention to the plight of a large number of roma women who face not only socioeconomic marginalization but many forms of unequal access such as healthcare. it's because of social exclusion, lack of education, the terrible conditions they live in, that they often keep their health care experiences to themselves. in my country, slovakia, many roma women from poor settlements do not share hospital rooms with other women. they're housed in separate rooms. often, women have to endure humiliation, neglect, or harassment by staff. in the past, many roma women were forcibly sterilized without their consent. in 2016, the un human rights committee asked the slovak government to establish an independent investigative body and to provide compensation to women who have been involuntarily sterilized. last november, after 15 years of illegal sterilization, one injured person was compensated. we also need to talk about how our member states treat women from socially disadvantaged backgrounds and ensure that they are given adequate status and protection. the priorities of the un commission meeting must also reflect the concerns of these women.
mr president, in many eu member states, the legislation regarding money laundering is being made increasingly strict, including by restricting the space for casinos and other games. however, this kind of online gambling remains still quite untouchable because it’s operated on a global, multinational level, and for a single state it is quite hard to touch it and to control it. my question is: are there any further plans for fighting against this kind of money laundering, this kind of criminality?
madam president, yes, the internet, in our country, slovakia, they say that the internet, like fire, is a good servant but a bad master. that means we can't let the internet completely control our children. we can't substitute our responsibilities of parenting and caring for our children by putting a smartphone or a tablet in their hands. really, we have to do everything we can to make the internet safe for our children and we have to prevent all the data about our children from getting into the networks of merchants, for advertising purposes and, of course, into the networks of pedophiles. it's a terrible thing, because really, children are often exposed to various advertisements on the internet that offer them sexual programming, or sexual contact, abuse, and so on. we must do everything we can to prepare an education programme together with parents, schools, national governments and also at european union level, because the internet is no substitute for education. it's just a tool. but when it comes to education, we have to do it ourselves and our parents and our schools.
madam president, the european union really needs to prevent not only the spread of the coronavirus but also the spread of the propaganda that is being spread around this virus on the internet and on social media. the european commission and the competent authorities must take the necessary measures in due time. i think what's been done so far is good, but we can't sleep, even if we think that the spread of coronavirus is isolated in europe so far. it doesn't have to be that long. we must first of all share information and we must continue to communicate information to our citizens. it's about our people knowing how to prevent this, how this virus spreads. i want to focus on one thing right now, and that's prevention. because prevention is always better than cure, and unfortunately, like masks, there's a shortage of masks on the market. only some masks are effective, and it should be said and communicated to the citizens that the infection is spread mainly through the mouth, nose but also through the hands and through solid materials, so people should be informed about this, especially children in school. as for the mask, the most effective protocol is of course ffp3, so i ask that the european commission also make efforts to get this information directly to the citizens.
mr president, actors in the food chain are key to offering sustainable food and promoting affordable, healthy food for all. i believe that they are key for the european green deal. that’s why we are looking at the farm to fork strategy as a tool that can help consumers choose healthy food that is not harmful to our environment whilst at the same time reducing food waste. we know that the total global food systems are responsible for almost one third of total greenhouse gas emissions, and we need to make sure that this sector contributes to our quest in europe for ensuring carbon neutrality by 2050. we in the s&d group want a farm to fork strategy that will help reduce emissions and that reduces food waste, pushes for more sustainable food production and creates new opportunities in the food value chain for all. we will ask for targets to reduce the use of chemical pesticides, fertilisers and antibiotics. we want a farm to fork strategy that guarantees consumers traceability so that they can trace healthy food that helps reduce the risk of cancer and other diseases and that reduces the risk of chemicals such as endocrine disruptors. we believe that, if we plan out our policies properly, the european green deal can also be a source of opportunities for food producers, including farmers and fishermen. ultimately, they are key to offering sustainable food products that can benefit all. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the blue card. you mentioned the traceability of food, and i wanted to ask you what you mean by that. traceability means distance, origin, etc. have you also thought, and would you support, the idea that the dual quality of foods – that means that on different markets in the european union, food has a different quality and the consumer doesn’t usually know about it – is an extremely important issue and that all consumers should get the same quality of food when it is packed in an identical way?
blue-card answer. – thank you for that question. the s&d has always been very clear when it comes to dual quality of foods because we believe that all eu citizens have the right to have the same quality of food wherever they are in the european union.
mr president, we are well aware of the massive problems that we can face if the collapse of the beehives and the loss of pollinators and other biodiversity goes really full scale. there is one very clear culprit – not the only one but one that is well known – and that’s hazardous pesticides, and their massive use in our own agriculture and agriculture around the world. now, often many want to blame farmers, but it’s not something that is their fault; it’s basically the entire system that we’ve built. what we need to provide for them, and that’s what i expect from the farm to fork strategy but also from the common agricultural policy (cap), is that they need to be able to get the alternatives. we need to have mandatory reduction targets for pesticide use but also for the hazard. we need to have better integrated pest management available for farmers, and we need to have better access to the alternatives to hazardous pesticides on the market. i hope that the farm to fork strategy will be a strategy that doesn’t only talk, but helps to deliver safe food and prosperity for farmers as well as protection for the planet.
mr president, colleagues, we tried to implement the farm-to-table strategy at the level of the regional self-government in slovakia and we also wanted to buy slovak regional food for schools, but we just came across the legislation of the european union. because when we called for public procurement, we could not put a condition on the geographical origin of the food and, therefore, legally, these public procurements were won, won by various importers of cheaper foreign food. it is not surprising that the foreign food was cheaper, because the european union subsidies are really unfairly set. the order in slovakia is given to some farmer, a farmer of about 200 eur per hectare, in austria 250, in germany 300, in italy even 400, i am talking about the first pillar of the cap. not to mention that 80% of these subsidies go to 20% of the largest farms, so there is no, there can be no, any support for small, local farmers, and finally it's not a farm-to-table strategy but a truck-to-wholesale strategy, so this needs to change.
for the ecr group. madam president, in the 21st century, women would rather appreciate gender equality, equal pay and real protection from violence and sexual harassment than a bouquet of flowers. international women's day is about one message for me. and it's not just women in the european union, it's women all over the world. we're not just a cosmetic rib to adam. we are independent thinking beings who have the right to free choice, who have the right to free choice. but this is not the reality in all eu member states. there are countries where women do not have access to reproductive health services. women from the most deprived social groups in particular do not have access to contraception, as do women from roma settlements. in some member states, women are not free to choose not only their lives but also their wombs. a special category is single mothers with children, who face not only societal stereotypes but also poverty and are among the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. women are constantly faced with public pressure to tell them how to behave. because when a woman politician punches a table, she's hysterical, when a man does it, he's a hero. women are told that they must be mothers and then told how to be good mothers, because in many member states the stereotype persists that a good mother is only a mother who stays at home with her child. our task is to make policies so that women in all the member states of the european union have the opportunity to make genuine free choices, to be equal with men in both rights and responsibilities for the family, for child rearing and for housework. we are independent thinkers with the right to make free choices. we're not just a cosmetic rib to adam.
madam president, i really think what we are doing right now is quite irresponsible. you encouraged meps from all over the europe to sit in one room and discuss the coronavirus. we are politicians, not experts, and i truly believe that discussions about the coronavirus should take place at an expert level. we have also exposed everyone who works here to a big risk – the staff members, the drivers, the cleaners, the chefs who have to be here, because the meps are here. just one remark: in slovakia, we have seven cases of corona, and most of schools and children’s facilities are closing down. in the uk, they close their parliament. the numbers in belgium are rising exponentially. but the european parliament is talking about corona with 700 meps from all over the european union, and the european schools and crèches continue operating together with our kids. i really think we need a serious discussion at expert level.
in writing. this crisis requires us to take unprecedented action and act quickly. we need all the approved measures, but they should have come a few weeks earlier. to the health care workers who don't have respirators and the dying people who don't have ventilators, there is no excuse for our decision-making process being complicated and waiting. recently, when i was being treated for lyme disease, one of the doctors offered me plaquenil. today, with no official cure for covid-19, doctors' eyes are also on this antimalarial, and other drugs may prove effective, giving hope that we don't have to look for new ones, but make the right choices with the ones we already have. for the eu, which has a supporting competence in health protection, this creates a space to coordinate research, test an effective medicine and facilitate its journey to every patient, including in slovakia. the commission should coordinate the procurement of medical equipment not only in the eu but also in china, russia and the usa. he also has to coordinate the distribution of this material to where it's needed most right now. we need to act faster and more effectively so that people don't just look at reports of planes with doctors and respirators from china or russia. so i'm glad that the european procurement of respirators, testing kits is finally finishing and the procurement of ventilators has started. i hope this material will soon reach our medical staff.
in writing. it goes without saying that the covid-19 pandemic has triggered an unprecedented crisis that the union itself will only survive if it is united and supportive of states and citizens. the series of measures approved last month is being followed by others that are untying the hands of governments to take effective action to help them overcome health and economic difficulties. several measures were to come a few weeks earlier. we have to deal with acute problems, but we also have to prepare today for the day after the coronavirus crisis and also for the fact that this crisis may not be the last. the eu's healthcare competences should therefore also be discussed, allowing for a faster response and more effective coordination of national action from the outset. i believe that the €3 billion allocated to providing medical equipment, to creating strategic medical stocks, will be felt by citizens as soon as possible in the form of direct aid, and that a number of measures taken will also lead to a gradual restart of economies. but the priority must not only be to develop a vaccine as soon as possible but also to investigate all available drugs and treatments that could potentially save the lives of many of the thousands of dying europeans. there must be an exchange of information and sharing of practices that have proven effective. the coordinated approach must also be reflected by the member states in the intended relaxation of restrictive economic and social measures.
in writing. – i welcome the roadmap presented by the commission as i consider european coordination in lifting of containment measures desirable. i want to highlight especially the mass testing as the key priority in containing the outbreak. we have to be prepared that the coronavirus can stay with us for more than a couple of months. therefore, mass testing, including contact tracing of infected persons, and randomized testing of population to look for new clusters, provide great value for money. south korea is a perfect example that identifying the outbreak early enough can prevent both loss of lives and vast economic damage. expanded testing capacity and harmonized methodology can help us identify any new local outbreaks in the real time. that could be very beneficial also later in the year, in case a new wave of spreading would come in the winter. with mass and systematic testing the member states could identify and quarantine a smaller area of their affected territory early enough to limit the health and economic damage without the need for closing their borders. i therefore think that the concept of local quarantines is also worth analyzing.
in writing. from this session of the european parliament, we must send a clear call to the eu institutions and to all member states to swiftly adopt an ambitious plan to restore the european economy, which has been sinking in the wake of the corona crisis for several months. only if all eu institutions and all member states act swiftly and boldly can we meet the expectations of citizens who were disappointed by the eu's initial slow response at the start of the crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new financial instruments, including the european structural and investment funds, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments. the european commission should present an ambitious recovery plan by the end of may, which will be able to help those countries and regions that have been most affected by the crisis and those sectors that have been most vulnerable at the beginning of the crisis, in the form of grants and loans, in the time needed. no affected region can be left behind in this plan, and aid must reach those who need it most, the workers who have lost their jobs and thus their income, but also the entrepreneurs and tradesmen who have fallen into debt as a result of the crisis. we must prioritise the use of economic recovery to finance economic activities that contribute to meeting our climate goals.
in writing. the multiannual financial framework presented by the european commission with a new next generation eu instrument is a huge opportunity for countries like slovakia to embark on the path of modernisation and at the same time to get more money for it than they could have hoped for until recently. i believe that despite the initial opposition of some states to the allocation of guarantors, as well as to the increase in funding for the various eu programmes, we will eventually be able to pass this proposal in at least similar numbers, not only in the ep but also in the council, before the summer. it is high time for the eu to show its ability to act, its determination and its solidarity and not to disappoint its citizens, who were not happy with the union's weak engagement at the beginning of the corona crisis. as the shadow rapporteur for the just transformation fund, i will try to push for all countries to have equal access to money from these instruments, and the main criterion for allocating this money is the decline in economic activity due to the corona crisis. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the aid granted to the beneficiaries. several sectors of the economy, such as the automotive industry or tourism, but especially small and medium-sized enterprises and traders, will not recover from the enormous oppression without european help. this is why such a mobilization of european money is more than necessary.
josep borrell fontelles,vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. five minutes is enough time to answer 33 speakers. you will understand that my answer cannot be as complete as i would have wished. i am delighted to be involved in this debate, and perhaps it would be good if i could also have the opportunity to interact with you in my replies, i will try to do so as far as possible. on israel, the annexation, different views have been expressed. someone has said that it is debatable whether or not it is in accordance with international law. i can only tell you that there are 25 countries out of 27 that believe it is contrary to international law. they'll all be wrong, but that's what they believe. twenty-five countries out of twenty-seven have clearly supported a statement saying that this would be contrary to international law. why are we talking about this now? because we're trying to prevent it from happening. that we don't know the plans of the israeli government? you forgive. yes, we do know them. of course we know them. they're public and notorious, they're part of the coalition agreement. and i myself have been told live by ministers of that government. and the german minister, who went to israel, was told directly. i mean, knowing it, we know it. let's not play the ostrich. no, we don't know that. yeah, we know. and what are we doing? we are doing everything possible diplomatically to make sure that these things don't happen and we don't have to face a difficult situation. why does the european union not recognise the palestinian state? because the european union does not recognize anyone, it has no capacity to recognize. this is done by the member states, and each one takes the decision it deems appropriate. what measures are being taken? well, we'll see about that. let's not get ahead of ourselves. here, yes; let's not get ahead of ourselves. let's try to predict. but certainly the majority position, which is not unanimous - unfortunately, i can't guarantee that it is unanimous, because it is not - is that this would be contrary to international law and that there would have to be consequences, and we are trying to prevent that from happening. as regards hong kong and china, i cannot agree more with you on the need to do everything in our power to ensure that the international agreements to which china is a party and the system it agreed with the united kingdom when it left the colony are respected. we do it because we stand by our principles, but also because it is in our interest, and there is intense activity on this. there are more issues in our relationship with china, which we will address at the next summit. i've tried to address all of them, and you have, but let's focus on one very important aspect that many of you have pointed out, which is that the crisis has brought with it -- i think it's been mr. bütikofer and others who have pointed it out very accurately -- a crisis of american leadership -- the united states has clearly withdrawn from any attempt to lead the global response to the pandemic -- a hegemonic battle between the two great powers and a weakness of the multinational agencies. this is the scenario we're in. and i sincerely believe that europe cannot afford to ignore this scenario and that it must have a position of its own. as for strategic autonomy, it has a lot to do with what many of you have also pointed out about our excessive dependence on the supply of medicines, and we now realise that our dependence is much greater than we thought and can become critical at critical moments like this. we need to reinforce this strategic autonomy and maintain our values and our interests autonomously. because, like it or not, unfortunately we cannot always agree with the united states, because the united states makes unilateral decisions which we do not share. and since we don't share them, we can't be on their side. for example, we cannot be on their side in the decisions they take with regard to the international criminal court. and here i hope that parliament will agree with this statement. and instead we must preserve transatlantic unity wherever possible, because we share the same political system. so we sometimes say that we are systemic rivals of china because, certainly, we don't share the same political system, but that doesn't mean that we have to be competing with china in everything and at all times. because there are very important issues on which we need joint action, to the extent that it can be agreed. i believe, gentlemen, that these are the answers. yes, the arms race. no, nobody is thinking of us pushing an arms race but unfortunately there are conflicts that we have to deal with and unfortunately those conflicts have to be dealt with with weapons. the next time a group of terrorists attacks a village in mali and kills all its inhabitants at the point of a machine gun, we will send them the text of a resolution to ask them not to do it any more, but i think it is much more efficient for the forces of those countries and ours - which are deployed there to combat terrorism - to have the means to do so.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday 19 june. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. hong kong's success is built on its freedoms. the current actions of the chinese communist party pose the greatest threat to the people of the autonomous region since 1997. we are deeply concerned by beijing's attempts to unilaterally and arbitrarily impose national security regulations in violation of article 23 of the hong kong basic law, and in breach of china's international obligations, including under the china-uk agreement notified to the un. i'm glad we were able to negotiate a strong text that clearly outlines our position on the ccp's actions. its adoption will send a clear signal on how we should shape our relations with beijing, whose policies have been a source of concern to me for many years. beijing's expansion is not as peaceful as it tries to portray to the world. during the last term, we discussed in detail china's military activities in the south and east china seas. i still remember meeting the daughter of ilham tohti, a uighur scientist and journalist who was sentenced to life imprisonment by the chinese authorities. beijing has recently succeeded in stifling tibet and is systematically pursuing new targets. we must support a democratic taiwan, and ensure that international law is respected. that is the purpose of the resolution we are debating today, and i wholeheartedly support it.
in writing. the global pandemic has already caused a number of problems, seriously damaging the economies of our own and our western balkan partners. these restrict our scope for action and our capacity to provide assistance, but it is essential that we do not let go of our partner countries in times of crisis. we must keep them hopeful by keeping the eu perspective alive, but we must also give them financial help. it is therefore important that the western balkan states receive as much help as possible during this period. i welcome the significant support announced by the enlargement commissioner for the western balkans in the fight against the global coronavirus pandemic. the total amount of assistance mobilised by the enlargement commissioner is eur 3,3 billion, of which eur 38 million is in the form of immediate assistance to the health sector, eur 389 million is for social and economic recovery, eur 750 million is for macro-financial assistance, eur 455 million is for economic recovery and eur 1,7 billion is in the form of soft loans from the european investment bank. we have shown by our actions that our western balkan partners can count on us during and after the crisis.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic will cause a number of health, social and economic problems worldwide that are yet to be accurately measured. as the economic downturn reduces our available resources, the humanitarian and development needs of our partner countries are also increasing. for european responses to be truly successful, we need a new approach to development policy. in addition to addressing the immediate humanitarian consequences of the coronavirus pandemic, we must also address the longer-term economic and social impacts of the pandemic. we need to avoid the emergence of protracted humanitarian crises in regions such as north-east nigeria, burkina faso or south sudan, which can be the starting points of migration to europe. this can only be achieved if humanitarian and development aid is effectively channelled to those who need it, and used in accordance with the real needs of the country, region and local communities. in the current economic climate, we need to make significantly more efficient use of the financial resources available. the credibility of european involvement depends on this. direct dialogue with local communities in developing countries will contribute greatly to enhancing efficiency. local churches, which unfortunately are often discriminated against in eu development policy, can be reliable partners in this work. now that the citizens of the union are in need of support, we simply cannot ignore the development and humanitarian work carried out by the churches and the reserves they represent.
when the british colony of hong kong was handed over to china in 1997, it seemed like a mere formality. for the people of hong kong, nothing was to change, and if anything, for the better (there was even a commitment to gradual democratization). china was different then, too. it has been constructive internationally and has continued the pace of reform at home. hong kong was promised a permanent status of autonomy in the spirit of the 'one country, two systems' concept. that period is now over. the current chinese leadership has a different strategy - outwardly more assertive, inwardly tightening the screws. a symbolic nail in the coffin of hong kong's autonomy comes with the security bill passed this may in the shadow of covid-19 by the chinese parliament. the law is intended to allow the suppression of terrorist and separatist activities, subversive activities and foreign interference. it criminalizes undermining beijing's authority in hong kong, and thus fundamentally undermines hong kong's autonomy. it's so directly aimed at the demonstrations and is a reaction to them. a sad reaction that is entirely in the spirit of chinese methods and thinking. this year, hong kongers were free to remember the events of 1989 in beijing's tiananmen square. the question is, will it still be possible next year? we must stand up for hong kong and not throw its people overboard. it's part of the universal struggle for freedom and human rights.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the exceptional world health crisis we’re still facing has been aggravated by an unprecedented ‘infodemic’. our citizens have been flooded by often false or inaccurate information, which not only creates confusion but is also putting health and lives at risk. to address these risks the council has strongly emphasised the need to intensify joint efforts in the fight against disinformation through close cooperation between eu institutions, member states and social platforms. there is consensus in the council about the need for more effective methods to address disinformation without hindering the protection of fundamental rights. indeed, our strong and coordinated action against disinformation must be in line with our democratic values, including freedom of expression and free and plural media. all institutions, member states and civil society are called to act against the plague of the infodemic. much has been done in the eu institutions, in cooperation with member states. the external action service’s stratcom task force and the rapid alert system, which was set up in the run-up to the european elections last year, track disinformation. we support and welcome these efforts. a comprehensive approach at all levels is needed to address the challenges of disinformation. this must include monitoring and analysis of disinformation and manipulative interfaces, enforcement of european data protection rules, efforts to enhance pluralistic media, professional journalism and media literacy, as well as awareness among citizens. eu institutions and member states should continue working with social media platforms to achieve higher standards of responsibility, transparency and accountability on addressing disinformation. the whole society approach is also stressed by the recent joint communication ‘tackling covid—19 disinformation – getting the facts right’, which takes stock of the measures taken in response to disinformation around the coronavirus pandemic and proposes further action. the presidency takes covid-19 disinformation very seriously and we have taken steps to ensure close cooperation with member state authorities, with eu institutions, bodies and agencies, and with international organisations such as the who. as early as 28 january, we activated the european union’s integrated political crisis response arrangements regarding the covid-19 pandemic, bringing together relevant experts from the member states and the eu institutions in the fields of health, consular affairs and civil protection. in this framework, disinformation has been one of the topics we addressed. we believe that disinformation campaigns could also be highly disruptive in the respect of easing restrictive measures and of searching for a vaccine and a cure. we have also addressed the issue in other parliaments, such as in our horizontal working party on enhancing resilience and countering hybrid threats, in the political and security committee and in the eu–us justice and home affairs ministerial videoconference. we are conscious that disinformation is here to stay and we all need to work together to maintain our vigilance, strengthen our toolbox and resilience, and continue our efforts to address this issue internally and beyond our eu borders. covid—related disinformation is aggravating existing divisions in the eastern and southern neighbourhood and in the western balkans. at the zaghreb eu—western balkans summit on 6 may, the leaders of the eu and western balkans partners agreed to reinforce their cooperation in addressing disinformation and other hybrid activities. as i said at the beginning, when fighting disinformation we must not forget the balance between the right of citizens to be properly informed and safeguarding the freedom of speech and the media. in the wake of the covid—19 pandemic, unprecedented circumstances led many member states to adopt far—reaching measures which were key to acting rapidly and effectively protecting the health of the citizens. many of these measures had a significant impact on fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is therefore essential to make sure that they remain proportionate to the objective, limited in time and subject to regular scrutiny. the emergency measures taken to tackle the pandemic must not be used as a pretext to censor news and informal information coverage or to violate fundamental rights. it is critical that governments support the work of the independent media, which are crucial allies in the fight against covid—19. the democratic debate, media freedom and the role of civil society deserves special attention. upholding these values is a priority for the council.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, it’s really evident that the virus pandemic has been accompanied by an ‘infodemic’, a pandemic of information. we have witnessed a wave of false and misleading information, and an exponential increase in targeted influence operations by foreign actors. we have seen again that this information can do real damage. in the case of a pandemic, which affects the health of the people, it’s even more dangerous. we have seen disinformation saying that drinking bleach can cure the coronavirus. i’m not making any specific reference to anyone, but this has been said – drink bleach and you will be safe – or that washing hands doesn’t help. it can also spark crime. take, for example, the vandalism against 5g infrastructure in some member states, mainly in the netherlands. in march 2020, european leaders called on the commission and the high representative, through the external action service, to take action. last week, we followed up with a joint communication on disinformation related to the pandemic. together with my colleague and friend, the vice—president in charge of values, i will also comment on this communication. this communication summarises what the european union has done to tackle disinformation in the crisis and how to step up action. disinformation knows no borders. democracies and the west as such have been the target of disinformation, which underlines the importance of international cooperation. let me turn first to the external dimension. the infodemic has clearly been exploited by foreign state and non-state actors. disinformation from russian actors has spread conspiracy theories and orchestrated disinformation campaigns, targeting the eu and its member states and neighbours by alleging a lack of solidarity and an internal crisis within the european union, and sowing confusion. china has also participated in that. russian sources are old news, but china has been more active. china’s sources have been promoting this image, presenting theirs as the better system, the best equipped to tackle the pandemic, and blaming democracy for its handling of the virus. one can imagine that doing self—praising propaganda is something that everybody does, but i think there are limits. it is one thing to explain that you believe yourself to be the best and another to deflect blame on the handling of the virus by others. at the same time, there is a clear risk of governments using the infodemic as an excuse to limit fundamental rights and freedom of expression. some members referred to that in the previous debate. i think that the european union needs to take a stand against this. what has been done to address these worrying trends? we have been working to promote strategic communication and public diplomacy in our neighbourhood, especially in the western balkans. the external action service has stepped up its efforts to address foreign influence operations, publishing regular reports, analysing the trends in disinformation and sharing findings with member states, our international partners, civil society and the media. the people working at the external action service are doing extraordinary and difficult work in this field. we have made good use of the instruments we have at hand to tackle disinformation overall in the current crisis. we have mobilised the rapid alert system, which connects all relevant eu institutions and all eu member states. this has been proving to be a valuable network. since the outbreak of the pandemic, a dedicated space has been set up to exchange information on disinformation related to the virus. we have further increased our cooperation with our international partners – nato and the g7 and its rapid response mechanism – and we are also happy to be working with valuable partners such as the united nations and the world health organisation. looking ahead, we will step up our actions by enhancing concrete preparation on strategic communication and public diplomacy, increasing the sharing of best practice in fighting disinformation, and activating more quickly the rapid alert system, intensifying the joint work with relevant partners from civil society and the private sector, stepping up the monitoring of violations of press freedom and supporting advocacy for a safer media environment. on this, we now have a specific programme, under the instrument contributing to stability and peace, to support regional governments in tackling the crisis and to debunk disinformation that can further fuel tensions in conflict areas. i could go into more detail, but i think it’s now time to leave it to the vice—president for values and transparency, ms věra jourová, to continue on the important work with social media platforms and other aspects of this joint communication.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we have just heard from josep borrell about the basic parameters and the information on what we call the ‘infodemic’ that is going on in parallel with the pandemic we are going through. this is why we decided to prepare the communication and adopt the communication, which has the title ‘getting the facts right’. it was necessary because we needed to inform about what have been the steps taken up to now against disinformation because, in the covid—19 context we didn’t start from scratch fighting against disinformation. we already had the code of practice and we had the action plan, and its second purpose was to come up with a to—do list for all involved, especially the platforms, to step up their work. in the communication we comprehensively address three things: the sources of disinformation, its channels and amplifiers, and also the targets. josep talked about the foreign sources of disinformation and i am glad about this because i believe that a geopolitical eu can only materialise if we are assertive, but we also have to put our own house in order. we need to beef up our strategy on communication. we have to get our story out about europe and eu support during the coronavirus crisis, and it is high time we step up on this and do not allow others to occupy that space. now to the channels of communication and disinformation – especially the online platforms. i welcome the measures taken by them in this crisis; their strong commitment is heavily needed. i believe that the fact that we worked with the platforms, and we designed with them the code of practice on disinformation, helped to roll out new policies more quickly. we agreed with the platforms that they would promote links to the world health organization and health authorities and remove ads that offered fake medicines or inflate prices for normal products or give very dangerous advice, which we already heard from joseph. these actions brought results. for example, google blocked or removed globally over 80 million coronavirus—related ads. but there is room for improvement and our code was just a first step. we need to ensure transparency and accountability. citizens need to know how information is reaching them and where it comes from. our joint communication calls on the platforms to step up their efforts and to report monthly on their policies and actions to address covid—19—related disinformation – not to report to the commission, to report to the public, so that people can read about what’s happening online. the targets – well, it’s about us, it’s about the citizens of europe. lying is neither new nor that scary in itself. what scares me is that we believe in those lies too easily. this is why we need to become more resilient and critical as a society. we need to support free and independent media – the fact—checkers and researchers. and we have to step up our education. we will have the digital education action plan soon, adopted by the commission, and there will be a very strong chapter on how to become more resilient and increase our critical thinking through education. we will support fact-checking and research activities through the recently established european digital media observatory. in this context, later this month, we will launch a eur 9 million call for research hubs in the different member states. also, we have to speak in this context about the freedom of speech, which remains our basic principle. laws which define criminal penalties for spreading disinformation in too broad terms, and with disproportionate sanctions, can damage accountability mechanisms, which are just as important as ever. it can make the work of journalists more difficult, cause self—censorship and damage freedom of expression. this is not the european way. it is bad for democracies and it is self—defeating. our best defence against disinformation are free and plural media, informed and active citizens and resilient democratic institutions in which they can trust. i really want to insist on this because i believe this is a distinctive part of our policies. i do not want to create any ministry of truth. i used to live in a system, before 1989, with only one official truth, no pluralism of media, opinion, or even thought. a competitive market of ideas enabled by free speech is essential in democracies. just as in traditional competition policy where consumers benefit from fair competition and a level playing field, citizens benefit from fair competition of free speech. to conclude, the communication is the first building block of this new commission in response to disinformation. we are working on the digital services act and the european democracy action plan where we will address illegal content and harmful content like disinformation. in this context, i really appreciate that we can work on this together with the committee which you established in parliament, because i believe that common work can bring good fruit.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the covid-19 situation has only underscored that disinformation can kill people, just like it can kill democracy. we must therefore confront the spread of lies in our public space much more systematically. while i welcome the plans to step up eu efforts to counter disinformation, we need a tougher european action to fight off disinformation campaigns from russia and china. we must speak with one, firm european voice against the actions by russia and china, keen to undermine our european way of life. but the fight against disinformation is not a narrow matter of foreign policy. we need robust action towards social media platforms that help spread disinformation. i welcome the commission proposal that platforms report monthly on covid-19 disinformation, but we need to think beyond the current crisis and take clear and, yes, legislative action that ensures that all social media platforms behave responsibly and report transparently on their fight against disinformation. for the sake of the safety of our citizens, of all of us in europe, we must protect facts from lies, science from hoaxes and journalists from facts and crooks, and we can only do this effectively together in the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. in march, we may have felt for the first time in earnest how fragile the freedom that schengen guarantees us, and which we have taken for granted until now, is. the exceptional situation naturally required extraordinary solutions, including internal border controls. but the way in which the member states have closed their borders, arbitrarily, uncoordinatedly, often without a clear legal basis, has only unnecessarily undermined the trust that we have built up for years, decades in schengen, and in ourselves. it is perhaps worth remembering that schengen is not a nice-to-have luxury, but the cornerstone of the european union, of our freedoms and of the single market. and none of this will be sustainable if the first instinct of governments in any crisis is always to unilaterally and immediately close internal borders. we must learn from this experience. and now is the moment when we must work to strengthen the resilience of the schengen area.
in writing. the reopening of internal borders between member states requires more coordination and cooperation and cannot be discriminatory. both in closing and in opening borders, some countries took uncoordinated steps, opening some borders and keeping others closed, despite recommendations from the european commission. it will take some time to fully restore the entire schengen area without border controls and to prepare for the possibility of coordinating as much as possible and informing others in advance of the actions to be taken by states in the event of a second wave of coronavirus outbreak.
in writing. i strongly disagree with the eu's criticism of the restrictions on the free movement of persons in the schengen area adopted by member states in response to the pandemic. member states were able to respond more quickly to the situation and closed their borders only when the disease was spreading within the eu. at the same time, they have more competence in the field of public health and therefore more responsibility for managing a crisis situation. they also closed down areas within member states (e.g. litovel in the czech republic, žehra in the slovak republic), which shows that the intention of the member states was to protect public health, not to try to influence the rate of integration.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. across the european union, we have 1.3 million crossborder workers and 2 million posted workers. and during the corona, when the borders between the european union countries were closed, we could see how vulnerable these people became. often, they had to choose between staying with their families and losing their jobs or going to work, isolating themselves from their families for months at a time. of course, as many did not get to work, some segments such as agriculture, social services or freight transport suffered acute labour shortages. these people are in permanent social insecurity because they are in two or more social systems. they are often discriminated against. let us look at the austrian indexation of family allowances. for the next crisis, we must learn from them, redress the frontiers and finally coordinate social security systems, including the digital interconnection of systems.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i fully support the motion for a resolution on foreign and seasonal workers. it is common knowledge that seasonal workers in particular come from socially disadvantaged groups, that they come from eastern european countries and that they come from third countries. it is also widely known that they work on short-term contracts, have poor working conditions, often minimum wage. it is therefore necessary to address these issues in order to ensure that the working conditions of these staff, who generate significant income for the countries in which they work, are sufficiently acceptable and in line with european legislation. we have to think ahead and think that maybe one day these conditions and seasonal employment will also apply to men and women from paris, sweden and other countries, that they will come to eastern european countries to work. even if they had the same conditions as they have now.
in writing. i consider the creation of a european health union to be a key step since march, when the covid-19 pandemic emerged, which highlighted the need to significantly strengthen the eu's competences in the field of public health protection and to intensify cooperation between member states and eu institutions in this area. through the european health union, we must be able to provide affordable vaccines and medicines against covid-19 for all, including the most vulnerable sections of the population. while the greatest efforts today are focused on finding the right vaccine, we must also focus on finding and researching the right drugs, especially if we assume that covid-19 will not be overcome in a few months, but may emerge much more massively in a second or even subsequent wave. i also see the proposed stress tests of national healthcare systems as a good step forward to help identify shortcomings and to check the preparedness of individual countries for a possible next wave of pandemics.
for the ppe group. commissioner, it is time to acknowledge that despite the abundance of european financial resources, little progress has been made in roma communities over the last decade. a new european initiative to include roma by 2030 will be adopted in october. this initiative needs to place much greater emphasis on results and the efficiency of the funds spent. we need to see tangible results. to focus on those member states where macroeconomic problems and deepening regional disparities are occurring due to the absence of political will. we have to focus on countries with a larger roma population, where roma in the 21st century live in conditions that we know from the african continent, without water or sanitation. the rigorous monitoring and active participation of roma in decision-making processes must become an essential part of all activities. the roma are citizens of the european union, they are untapped potential, both human and economic. it must be admitted that roma in europe also face institutional racism. unfortunately, some of the victims are children. i am personally sorry, as a citizen of rome, and it was really disappointing for me to find that some of the political groups in the european parliament, which have a full mouth on the human rights agenda, blocked a joint resolution that could have come out of this debate. so when it came to the violation of the rights of african americans in the united states, they did not hesitate to pass a similar resolution. it is this inaction and inability to name things as they are that is leading to the rise of extremism and racism that we are sadly witnessing here in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached at the summit is good news for the european economy, but the demarcation of some key instruments away from the original ec proposal and the ep's demands puts the agreement in a less favourable light. several aspects that we considered essential have not been achieved, both in the multiannual financial framework and in the unprecedented €750 billion recovery package. significantly less money is to be spent on health, science, research and education, resource generation or the fight against climate change. these are all key areas where citizens expect a strengthened eu presence. although we have called for the creation of a health union, the budget cut to one fifth is a significant step backwards. apart from the tax on non-recyclable plastics, none of the proposed own resources to the eu budget, such as the carbon tax, the digital tax, the financial transaction tax, have been implemented. as rapporteur and shadow rapporteur of the two instruments that were part of the recovery plan, i consider the budget cut of the just transformation fund from 40 to 17,5 billion as bad governance for the regions of the member states concerned and the complete elimination of the solvency support facility funding as a bad signal for the firms damaged by the corona crisis. the eu must be able to show citizens that it is ready to deliver real solutions, and i believe that the ep's vote will also help to reinforce some of the key measures.
mr president, this is a very emotional debate but the core issue is that polish justice is european justice, and the safety, dignity and freedom of all citizens in poland – regardless of their gender and sexual orientation – is also about essential respect for the rights of all europeans. fight for a fairer poland is our fight for fair europe. freedom of media are inseparable from democracy and rule of law. independent public broadcasters help democracy thrive. on the other hand, state media network as a tool of those in power is a disservice to polish citizens and citizens everywhere. misusing the media through political power is a departure from democratic ideals we share in this house, no matter which member state we come from. difficult discussion about the quality of justice in poland is a stark reminder that we are in dire need of a more robust approach to the protection of rule-of-law issues in europe. this must be a joint priority for the council, commission and european parliament. europe must pay equal attention to rule-of-law issues across all member states in order to prevent further loss of justice from all europeans. polish justice deserves our attention for the sake of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the usurper of presidential power in belarus is willing to sacrifice the sovereignty of his country, the security - and in many cases the lives - of his citizens in exchange for the kremlin's guarantees of continuing his power. we demand an immediate end to the violence in belarus, the release of all political prisoners, and the holding of new elections in accordance with the will of the people. we demand that russia refrain from supporting the usurper.
mr president, for a long time, belarus was seen as a black hole on the european map, not only because of its dictatorship but also because of the weak and unambitious eu policy towards that country. nowadays, belarus is where we see pride and hope on our continent. the belarusian people deserve no less than swift, determined and principled action by the european union. august ninth wasn’t fraud; it was theft. ever since, we see peaceful protesters being arrested, beaten up, tortured, ‘disappeared’ and even killed. we need broad, targeted sanctions now, including against lukashenko himself. finally, i would i like to make a call to all my colleagues here in the european parliament. we have all seen that freedom’s face in belarus is female. so let us unite behind giving this year’s sakharov prize to the brave women of belarus. (the speaker concluded in belarusian: ‘zhiv’e bielarus!’)
mr president, the day of 9 august marked the change in the belarusian people’s perception towards their, and their country’s, future. people no longer tolerate lukashenko’s dictatorship, fraudulent elections, brutal oppression and economic uncertainty. for the fifth week in a row, tens of thousands of belarusians in the streets are demanding a halt to violence against peaceful protestors, the organisation of new free and fair elections, and the release of all detained protesters and political prisoners. they are demanding a power transition, as they voted for sviatlana tsikhanouskaya as their president. the european union policy line since 2016, based on realpolitik and ignorant to the signals sent by belarusian civil society, has failed. the eu needs a new approach towards belarus which includes termination of any cooperation with the belarusian regime, in particular freezing official membership of the eastern partnership initiative, and, instead, supporting the democratic opposition and civil society. the situation in belarus has become a matter of geopolitics. we witness hybrid intervention from the russian side, as it seeks to preserve its influence and pursues the continuous ambition of incorporating belarus into the russian federation. we have to stop russia’s poisoning politics, focused on violating the territorial integrity of its neighbours. finally, we need solidarity, support and sanctions. i look forward to that policy line of the european union.
mr president, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union has supported the aspirations of the people of belarus for democracy and freedom in this conflict from the very beginning, but it has not pursued any geopolitical objectives of its own. i think i did the right thing. but that doesn't mean that others don't. anyone who has seen the video in which the former dictator, this ridiculous figure lukashenko, begs putin to come to his aid, can see how the balance is shifting. russia has long since begun to shift the balance. there are two possible futures for belarus: a belarusian and a russian one. we have no interest in the second being the case. that is why i agree with the statement that we do not want to be anti-russian. but being against putin is not anti-russian, and i'd like to make that point. but i think we must emphasise that lukashenko can only have one function in the future: to hand over belarus to putin. that is why we must be clear: there can be no future, no way out for belarus, except without lukashenko.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i agree with all of them. lukashenko must finally admit that his people want to depose him instead of relying on repression, intimidation, kidnapping and torture to stay in power. a power that he has always used for his own personal interests, sometimes with putin, sometimes with the eu. we should not forget that. we call for the immediate release of all political prisoners, an immediate end to all repression, police action and legal action against the gangs in minsk and other major cities who are carrying out indiscriminate brutal attacks on citizens. the need is urgent, and i agree with all the speakers in the chamber, to open a transparent and socially-wide dialogue to overcome the political confrontation. and that dialogue will certainly have to lead to free and fair new elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this must apply to the russian federation, which is bound by a treaty with belarus, as well as to the eu and others, i.e. within the framework of the osce.
mr president, i grew up singing l’estaca, the iconic catalan song of protest that later on became the anthem of revolution in eastern europe. nowadays we hear l’estaca in the streets of belarus. people in the streets that want their vote respected, police brutality, hundreds arrested, political opponents sent to jail or exiled – yes, this is happening in belarus today and, yes, our hearts beat with the people of belarus in their struggle for civil rights and democracy. but wait: people in the streets wanting to vote, police violence, political prisoners – have you not seen this elsewhere in europe? yes, we have seen this in catalonia inside the eu. l’estaca has also returned to the streets of barcelona and its composer, lluís llach, is now one of the leaders in the catalan republican council. this parliament must stop its hypocrisy if it wants to be credible in upholding civil rights everywhere. first, especially, look after civil rights in the eu.
mr president, as the european parliament we need to make clear firstly that we strongly support the protesting belarusians and their demands for freedom, dignity, democracy and the right to choose their own destiny. secondly, that we don’t recognise the results of the presidential elections held in belarus on 9 august as they were conducted in flagrant violation of all internationally recognised standards, and thirdly that we condemn the ongoing intimidation and disproportionate use of force towards peaceful protesters, participants of strikes and members of the coordination council. high representative, the restrictive measures targeted against those responsible for the repression in belarus should be immediately implemented, they are certainly overdue.
mr president, the arrest of presidential candidates and peaceful protesters, a violent crackdown on the opposition and civil society – this is a picture of belarus today that we condemn in the strongest possible terms. of course we do not recognise the results of the elections, which were neither fair nor free. they did not allow for election observers nor did they respect international standards. new presidential elections must be held. we must insist on targeted sanctions against the perpetrators of acts of violence and repression, including lukashenko and reassess our relations with belarus. it must be very clear that we expect russia to abstain from igniting further violence or repression, also given its latest financial assistance to the regime. belarusian citizens, as much as all others, deserve to live in a country where their fundamental freedoms and human rights are respected, where those in government serve the people and where people’s health and safety, and economic and social prosperity are the guideline for all state activity.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i see here today a consensus, a consensus that we need to support civil society in belarus. and i'm very happy about that. i think this is a good point for the european commission to make. ladies and gentlemen! to all these arguments about free elections, about a democratic society, i would like to add one more: today russian armored units are stationed in the vicinity of smolensk. there is a danger that these units may be moved to grodno, 600 kilometers to the west, closer to the european union. we cannot allow that to happen, and supporting civil society in belarus is one of the barriers to that plan, which vladimir putin may have, which we will discuss here in the context of mr navalny.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. lukashenko and putin are two statesmen who are cunning, who are devious, who know how to play all the instruments of power. now they are coming with new proposals, possibly a constitutional amendment, possibly to enter into a dialogue, and we as europeans must not be fooled by this. we must respond wisely with all the instruments at our disposal. klug says: we need broad international support against the lukashenko system. we need the involvement of the osce, and we need the brave and courageous women who are now on the streets in belarus as negotiating partners. these are our options. that is why we must be clear about the sanctions against lukashenko and the belarusian power elite.
mr president, it is clear that change in belarus can come from within. it is in the hands of the belarusian people to not give up and keep on demanding change. however, the eu can still do many things in this situation. most importantly, it must not be blinded by the role of russia in this conflict. lukashenko would not be in power if russia did not support him. also, the eu must take a strong stance on lukashenko and not let itself be manipulated as it has been in past decades. indeed, when discussing possible sanctions on the individuals responsible for the violence and election manipulations, lukashenko must be on the list. lukashenko’s regime, with him in charge, is responsible for the violence and election fraud and should therefore be on the sanctions list. the ultimate goal in belarus should be new, fair elections. it is also imperative that all those detained and tortured during protests be released and those responsible brought to justice.
mr president, first of all, whenever there is electoral fraud, the european union, as the guarantor of the rule of law and democracy, must stand by all the peoples. and here there was a huge electoral fraud, but this electoral fraud is no surprise: the belarusian regime is one of the most terrible dictatorial regimes we have today. i know him personally, i was there with the epp more than once, i was always persecuted by the kgb, i saw what the opposition suffered with intermittent and systematic arrests, with blackmail and threats on family members. i know what the belarusian people are going through, and that is why i say: we cannot give in. we must apply sanctions now, and we must also put pressure on russia to be the guarantor, together with the european union, that the belarusian people can take their destiny into their own hands.
mr president, i do not intend to speak about the trash side of the man who is called the last dictator in europe. a few years ago, that might have been true, but today it's less certain. however, i agree with the european union's cautious and determined approach. it would be counterproductive to intervene directly in this matter, either by nato's reinforcement or by the european union's deliberate action. on the other hand, where we must show determination is in our will to enforce the texts and conventions or agreements to which all european states, and in particular belarus, have subscribed. let us also remember that we are alone, terribly alone in this situation. our main ally is talking trash and doing nothing. we cannot do everything, but between everything and nothing, between always and never, there is a small margin, that of an unwavering will to remember the provisions of the multilateral institutions, including the osce, and to think about the best way to bring them to fruition. it is not spectacular, nor does it guarantee a quick and favourable outcome. this is not interference, but a renewal of our faith in an international order based on law and not on violence.
mr president, let me express my deepest condolences to those who have lost their loved ones in the aftermath of the brutal suppression of peaceful demonstrations. it is crucial that people in belarus know the full facts about the events in the run—up to, and since, the presidential elections. we need a thorough investigation of the deaths, ongoing disappearances, abductions, violence and electoral fraud. people in belarus deserve justice. lukashenko must leave office and new elections must take place. belarus and its repressive regime exists in a geopolitical space with its big neighbour that does not provide support to basic fundamental freedoms. it is important that we in the eu provide targeted support to free media and independent civil society in belarus. it’s also important that europe stand united in its answer to lukashenko’s regime. the declaration made by the high representative, on behalf of the eu, on the presidential elections has been supported by candidate and potential candidate countries in the western balkans. long live belarus. (the speaker concluded in belarusian: ‘žhiv’e bielarus!')
mr president, first i would like to wish alexei navalny a speedy and full recovery. for years now, we have seen a consistent trend in russia: elimination of opposition and critics of the regime with the most brutal tactics. we cannot accept that in europe in the 21st century we witness the use of chemical weapons against political opponents. we must act united in our response, and i’m sorry to say that the representatives of the german eu council presidency have left the room before this debate. we cannot be engaged in any other conversation with russia besides the one in which together in the european union we hold russia responsible, and demand clear answers and explanations from moscow. and we must act in line with our words. indeed, in this situation, we cannot conduct business deals or carry out strategic infrastructure projects with moscow. europe’s economic relations with russia must depend on acceptable political relations, not the other way around. (applause)
in writing. in her first state of the union address, president von der leyen sought to meet the demands of all relevant political groups, including our own social democrats. it was not only about creating new jobs, but also about strengthening the protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population and negotiating a minimum wage. i was particularly pleased that, at the time of the coronavirus crisis, she stressed the need to strengthen the european health union financially, which would certainly be helpful for countries like slovakia. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of the region. i see the announcement of the intention to increase the percentage by which greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced from the current 40% to at least 55% by 2030 in order to achieve carbon neutrality as a compromise between the pressure from the european parliament and the resistance of some member states. achieving this will be very challenging for some countries and industrial sectors, but we already have tools at our disposal, such as the just transition fund. i will be even more determined to push for increased funding for this fund with my colleagues, following the cuts made by european leaders in july.
mr roos, i give you the same answer as i gave mr limmer: the report has been adopted in the envi committee and tabled for the plenary; all plenary documents are available in all languages.
the agenda includes the report by mr michal šimečka, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (2020/2072 (ini)) (a9-0170/2020).
rapporteur. – mr president, we are of course here to discuss the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, but what we are really discussing – and should be debating – is the very future identity of the eu as a democratic peace project. i grew up in slovakia in the years after the velvet revolution. for people of my generation membership of the european union basically meant a guarantee of life in freedom and democracy. the eu was meant to be a place where you don’t get imprisoned if you speak out freely, which is what the communist regime did to my grandfather, who was a dissident intellectual. the eu was meant to be a place where you don’t get thrown out of your job for disagreeing with those in power, which is what happened to other members of my family. but the problem is that this image of the eu, the image of my youth, the image of the eu as a guardian of democracy is now being shattered and instead it has developed a very high tolerance – an unacceptably high tolerance – for authoritarian politics. we have at least one member state which can no longer be considered a democracy; we have another member state – poland – in which judges can be prosecuted for a verdict against the interests of the ruling party; and, in many other member states, we have thousands on the street protesting against years of corruption and state capture, all of which begs the question where has the eu been while national governments have undermined democratic institutions or plundered public resources? the proposal that we put before the plenary should put the eu in a position to do much more. what we need is a permanent, legally binding mechanism that, first of all, streamlines and makes more effective the rule of law instruments that we have; second, covers all aspects of article 2 and all values enshrined there; and, third, ensures that compliance by member states is not just reviewed periodically but also enforced. enforcement action is precisely what has so far also been missing from the commission’s otherwise thorough and very welcome report last week. but it is clear that monitoring alone will not bring back judicial independence in poland, nor will it save the index media in hungary. we really we do need enforcement. for instance, in poland, the commission still hasn’t come up with a request to impose fines, despite the fact that the polish government is disrespecting the ruling of the european court of justice, and we can continue on and on. but, equally importantly, the council needs to stop diluting the budget conditionality proposal. we know that eu money has demonstrably fuelled the rise of authoritarian and corrupt politics in our member states and this cannot continue. but the problem is that it will continue if the proposal of the german presidency is adopted because it is weak and will not protect either the eu budget or the rule of law in europe. if the commission and the council are serious about restoring the eu as a community of shared values, i would expect them immediately to begin negotiations on the proposal that parliament is putting forward for a binding mechanism as soon as possible. we know that there will be pushback and we know that some member states might reject it outright, seeing as they are willing to hold the entire continent hostage to rule of law conditionality, but there is a piece of good news as well. the council only needs a qualified majority to negotiate and adopt our proposal and therefore reclaim some of the eu’s aspiration for a democratic project. (applause)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission is not we are facing an ever-increasing crisis of fundamental values in the european union, a crisis which could threaten the very survival of the european union. the survival of the european union is at stake when journalists are attacked in the european union, corruption is not combated, the independence of the judiciary is threatened. it is therefore right that the commission produces an annual report on the rule of law, but it is a paradox that it is precisely the aspects of 'fundamental rights' and 'democracy' that are missing from this report. how else are we to react when, for example, lgbtqi-free zones are created in a member state? we therefore need the monitoring mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights called for in this report. this mechanism is effective when it is underlined by strong household conditioning. we will continue to fight for it. the enemies of the rule of law will find their fiercest opposition here in this house. i would like to thank michal for the very good cooperation between the committees and in particular for including important points on the protection of whistleblowers, the promotion and training of legal professionals and for supporting the financing of such important projects in the mff.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s an honour to be here with you today to speak about our parliament’s proposal for a mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. let me first thank the rapporteur, mr šimečka, for his work dedicated to defending the fundamental values of the eu and such a comprehensive report. president von der leyen said it clearly in her state of the union speech of a few days ago. mutual trust is at the very heart of the union and the way we do things together. breaches of the rule of law cannot be tolerated, and we will continue to defend the rule of law and the integrity of our european institutions. european values are not for sale. we share the objectives of the proposals of the parliament to set a positive agenda for promoting, protecting and reinforcing union values in accordance with article 2 of the treaty. this also corresponds to the objectives of the commission for a new push for european democracy, including the first annual rule of law report published on 30 september as part of the new comprehensive european rule of law mechanism, and the commission is well aware of the request of the parliament for a broader mechanism covering not only the rule of law but also democracy and fundamental rights. i would like to underline, then, that the scope of the rule of law mechanism is already comprehensive, as it is covering four areas: the national justice systems; the anti-corruption frameworks; media pluralism and media freedom; and other institutional issues related to checks and balances. the wide scope covers issues which are particularly important for the european parliament, such as the enabling framework for civil society. all these aspects contribute also to the promotion of democracy and respect of fundamental rights. in the next years, the commission will consider consolidating its monitoring in these areas and could cover additional aspects. the commission also recognises the necessity to further promote democracy and respect for fundamental rights. we believe that it requires a diversity of tailor-made approaches and instruments. as regards fundamental rights, the commission intends to present, still this year, the new strategy for the application of the charter of fundamental rights. particular attention will be given to the application of the charter in the member states and impact on citizens daily lives. and also by the end of this year, the commission will present another flagship initiative – the european democracy action plan – which will focus on countering disinformation and adapting to evolving threats and manipulations, as well as supporting free and independent media. the european democracy action plan will specifically contribute to upholding fundamental rights and strengthening democracies through three integrated themes. they are: elections’ integrity; the second is strengthening freedom of expression and democratic debate; and the third theme is tackling disinformation in a coherent manner considering the need to look together at all the means used to interfere in our democratic system. the action plan will also have a particular focus on citizens’ participation and the role of civil society. other initiatives and strategies will also further promote our basic foundations, for instance the forthcoming eu citizenship report and other strategies to build a union of equality. the commission will continue to monitor the impact of measures adopted in the context of the covid-19 crisis as regards compliance with eu law and ensuring free and fair elections and a fair democratic debate until restrictions are lifted. as regards more specifically the concrete parliament proposals for the rule-of-law monitoring and its follow-up, i will now give the floor to commissioner reynders.
member of the commission. – grazie, presidente. honourable members, i would like to reinforce, if it’s possible, what vice—president jourová just said: the commission fully agrees with the european parliament with regard to the importance of strengthening the eu’s capacity to monitor respect of our common values. for this reason, the commission presented last week – as was said by the rapporteur, mr šimečka, and thank you for your report – its first annual report on the rule of law, at the centre of a comprehensive european rule of law mechanism. the mechanism is broader than just the report. the mechanism is a yearly process with the aim to prevent problems from emerging or deepening, notably by having open debates and by changing best practices. the aim of the rule of law report is to look at key developments as regards the rule of law across the whole european union. it covers both positive developments and challenges, and provides a country—specific assessment of all the 27 member states. with regard to the methodology as proposed by the parliament for the annual monitoring cycle, the commission agrees on the importance of the consultation of stakeholders and on using a variety of sources, including via visits in the member states. this has been the approach already for the first annual rule of law report. all the member states provided written input and we also carried out a targeted stakeholder consultation where over 200 stakeholders provided written input. we also conducted more than 300 virtual country visits, meeting with member state national authorities, with judicial and other independent authorities and with relevant stakeholders, including civil society organisations. we made sure that this process was robust, transparent and inclusive. we have also kept the parliament fully informed of all progress. this report represents the commission’s assessment, but it relies also on assessments prepared by a variety of independent experts and bodies, including the fundamental rights agency and the council of europe. let me also say a few words on the follow—up to the report. its aim is to kick-start an inclusive debate at european and national level. i know that is precisely one of the objectives of the draft report of the european parliament discussed today. in this respect, we welcome in particular the proposal that the parliament and the council discuss the content of the annual report presented by the commission. we should maximise this momentum to bring about change in the union. in this regard i know technical preparations in parliament have started too. your first meetings with national parliaments are in october, november. i can only welcome this as a very positive development. we are committed to work on strengthening the cooperation with the european parliament and the council through regular meetings and exchanges of views in order to build this process together in an inclusive and constructive way. we have a common interest to swiftly set up the rule of law mechanism, and the publication of the rule of law report last week is an important first step towards this objective. pursuing this under the existing institutional arrangements would ensure the effectiveness of our cooperation. we should develop our modus operandi step by step. whether in the future such cooperation should be codified in an interinstitutional agreement will have to be assessed at a later stage on the basis of the experience gained through the application of the european rule of law mechanism. so we will continue a permanent debate year after year on the basis of the next report, and maybe we’ll try to organise better cooperation, year after year among the two institutions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, former czechoslovak president, václav havel, would have been 84 today. so let me begin my remarks by reminding all of us of havel’s words, and i quote: ‘keep the company of those who seek the truth, run from those who have found it.’ havel saw the truth his whole life, often doubting his own thoughts. he believed in reflection, critical thinking and honest discussion – something that communism forbade for decades and something that havel saw as the essence of a free and democratic europe. he believed in an open europe and worked relentlessly and successfully for the return of central europeans to our common european project. so let’s think of people like havel and the europe of the past, divided and weak, as we discuss the current need for an effective mechanism on democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights. europe must protect common democratic principles and the sense of european justice in order to maintain its purpose and have a meaningful future. today’s discussion is about fundamentals, which we must monitor, guard and protect diligently, but also fairly, with respect to all member states. this mechanism is not about a single country or the naming and shaming of particular individuals. it is about the essential foundations of democracy and institutions that should work for the benefit of all europeans. i want to thank the rapporteur for steering our work on this report along these lines. we have a solid text and we should send a strong message from this house this week to the council and the commission about the necessity for joint ownership and joint protection of rule of law. in havel’s words, all european institutions should keep our company in search of a more just and more democratic european union. (applause)
madam speaker, mr. shimeck, i'm sorry, but this is really not an option. you want to make the disbursement of money from the common european budget conditional on compliance with some liberal eu rules. so the states that are not judged by independent courts, but by you, liberal politicians in brussels, to be in disobedience, will only have to pay into the eu, and get nothing out of it. say it straight, you want to punish poles, hungarians, slovaks and all the others because they don't want to accept immigrants. that they don't want to push the lgbt agenda, that they don't want to blindly obey foreign ngos and liberal journalists, because that's what this is really about. we can never support something like this, because in slovakia, in central europe, we have our experience with this and in the past it was called totalitarianism. people out there have nothing to put in the pot anymore and you're blocking the approval of the european budget and the granting of aid with just such absurd demands to strengthen your own dominance. this is outrageous, really outrageous.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr schimlechka on his report. the rule of law is one of the european union's founding values. it is therefore important that there is consistency between the european institutions on these issues. the defence of the rule of law, around which we are unconditionally united in the european parliament, also means that no form of double standards is allowed in relation to individual member states. i would like to point out that the first annual report is a good step in that direction. the new non-discrimination mechanism, which was presented by the european commission, puts all countries in the european union on an equal footing, assessing them on the same and objective criteria and making recommendations to support efforts at national level. in discussing the latest meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, commissioner reynders made a commitment to work towards building a genuine culture of the rule of law. another such initiative is the linking of the allocation of funds from the european union to the adherence to the rule of law by the member states, which the european people's party supported last year. i believe that this must be included in the european union's toolbox for the protection of the rule of law and democratic values.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this fruitful discussion which shows the urgency of the topic. i think that developments in the eu in the last decades show that we had undermined something, that we believe that the rule of law principle, democracy, fundamental rights, all these universal – not left and right – but universal european values will last forever, that they do not need any kind of effort or any kind of protection. we were mistaken. that’s why now we are trying to enlarge our toolbox and enlarge our possibilities to address the problems we see in the member states and to tackle the problems together with the member states. it is the meaning and purpose of the rule of law report which we presented last week. we needed to have a new preventive tool which we will create in the report, we will develop it in an inclusive manner, using transparent methodology which will invite us for the dialogue with the member states, and i believe in dialogue, even with the member states where we seem not to have very welcoming reactions. we also needed to come with a conditionality relating to eu money. we are going to distribute eur 1.7 trillion in the next years for a very good reason: the european union has to use the money for the best purpose to help european citizens to get out of this crisis and to develop new qualities and to open the chance for development in promising areas. but it cannot work to distribute such a big amount of money while we are in the atmosphere of decreasing trust. it cannot work. that’s why we want to achieve this conditionality to be introduced in our system. the commission will work also, as i said to you, on the strategy on the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights and the european democracy action plan. you’re calling for covering the whole scope, which we see also in mr šimečka’s report, which i heard many times from sophie in’t veld and other members of parliament. the commission is addressing all three, but uses three different, if i may say, vehicles or methods. in the european democracy action plan, we want to come up with efficient measures on how to protect free and fair elections because whatever positives we do to protect democracy and the rule of law in the member states, the first and the last word is for the citizens living in the member states. that’s why i think we should do more to protect their right to cast their free vote and that’s why in the action plan, we will focus on protecting the system where there is a level playing field for campaigning and financing of the political parties and political campaigns. we would like to have guaranteed fairer judiciary oversight over the elections and, last but not least, access to objective information, so we will focus on the freedom of speech and pluralistic media, which will deliver objective information. i think that we have to continue our work. it’s quite obvious also from today’s debate that there is a very demanding job for all three institutions, be it the commission, parliament, or the council. we have to find a way to continue the work and not rely on the naivety from the past that our rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights are some kind of perpetual pillar which will last forever. (applause)
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank the members for the very broad support that has been given to the defence of common values. this is important because these common values help to develop a climate of trust within the european union and make it work in all its aspects, such as cooperation between the courts, but also the internal market and many other aspects of relations between citizens. i would like to return to a few points concerning the annual rule of law report, which is part of this mechanism. i would first like to point out that this report by the commission, the guardian of the treaties, presents the 27 member states of the union on an equal footing. this report does not contain recommendations in the formal sense of the term, but clear assessments which will enable the commission and any other institution to continue monitoring in future editions. secondly, the commission will continue to use all the tools at its disposal, the report, the infringement procedures, or the article 7 procedures currently pending before the council, to provide an effective and proportionate response to any breach of the rule of law. the commission is ready to help in the establishment of additional tools, including an effective tool for the protection of the european budget, in relation to respect for the rule of law. i would also like to recall that the commission is committed to an interinstitutional dialogue on the rule of law, which a number of members of this house have called for. we will be happy to continue to discuss with you and the council not only the first report but also the mechanisms to be put in place in the future. i would therefore like to remind you once again that this is a report from the commission, but of course nothing will prevent parliament from involving experts in its own work and debates. we also count on your support, ladies and gentlemen, in the dialogue with the national parliaments. it will be an important opportunity to debate not only here in the council, the german presidency having already scheduled the debates on the report and on a number of member states, but also in the european parliament and in national parliaments. and i would remind you, as i said in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, that if you also wish to discuss the reports by member state in parliament, the commission is at your disposal. and then, although the report is about the member states, in order to be able to talk about the rule of law and respect for fundamental values with neighbours, candidates and partners, including in africa and elsewhere in the world, we must also first think about doing the work at home. this is the purpose of the whole series of procedures we are using, this is the purpose of the annual report which will open a permanent debate on the rule of law within the european union, this is an important condition for being credible when we defend common values that are dear to us, including outside the european union.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone who took part in this debate and, specifically, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on this file and made it a better text. they were all very constructive and helped produce a report which, i hope, will gain a broad majority in the vote tomorrow. let me also very briefly respond to some of the critical comments and, specifically, to mr fest, who is somehow suggesting that this is a disingenuous exercise because we don’t criticise turkey or some african republics. obviously, i would love it if turkey and countries in our neighbourhood subscribed to the same rule of law mechanism and conditionality that we have here, but that’s not possible. i think that, precisely to have credibility externally, we need to do this at home, to make sure that our member states subscribe to the values and principles of the eu. to ms kempa, who is suggesting that somehow i don’t like poland or i am being manipulated, first of all, this is nothing against poland. being a slovak, obviously i consider poles to be my brotherly nation. the problem is with the current polish government, and it’s not just me saying that, it’s the european commission, the european court of justice, the council of europe and all sorts of other organisations. so there’s no conspiracy against poland. finally, i would like to thank both vice—president jourová and commissioner reynders for their commitment to the rule of law report presented today, which indeed is a historic step forward that must be acknowledged. the issue that we have and the proposal that we are putting forward is to make it stronger and to make a clear link with enforcement and further action. it is obviously to enlarge the scope, but also to put it on solid legal grounds through an interinstitutional agreement, which the parliament can propose, because there might be commissioners after you who will not have the same kind of commitment. there might be a presidency after which will not have the same kind of commitment. so we want to have something that is solid and which all three institutions can have joint ownership of. (applause)
in writing. the rule of law is the foundation of true democracy, especially if we don't want the rights of the weak to be trampled on by the strong. but for this to work, respect for democratic principles, including the rule of law and respect for human rights, must also be objectively assessed and, in the case of serious violations, punished. i therefore welcome all initiatives calling for the establishment of a fair mechanism for regular evaluation of this area in all eu countries alike. a few days ago, the european commission published its first assessment of the rule of law, giving poland and hungary the worst marks. but the government in budapest immediately called the report unfair, based mainly on information from the so-called soros organizations. it is all the more important that any new monitoring mechanism produces only absolutely objective reports. but today we are talking about making the use of european money conditional on the member states respecting the rule of law. in the end, this means the suspension of funds for the government of a country that does not respect these principles. i am not opposed to the european commission's new monitoring tool including a well-defined mechanism for how money allocated to a country gets to its rightful recipients without going through government instruments. people and businesses in countries whose governments are negatively rated cannot become hostages to their governments and lose money from the eu budget to which they contribute through their taxes.
author. – mr president, in her political priorities, commission president von der leyen recognised the success of the youth guarantee in the fight against youth unemployment and declared it should be given an increased budget and involve regular reporting to ensure that it delivers on what it promises in every member state. on 1 july this year, the commission put forward a proposal for a council recommendation on reinforcing the youth guarantee. as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, unemployment and inactivity rates in the eu are rising and millions of people are at risk of losing their jobs. as past experience shows, young people are likely to be hardest hit by the negative consequences of this crisis. however, the 15% allocation of the four targeted actions for young people not in employment contained in the amended commission proposal on the european social fund plus (esf+) has been reduced to 10% in the european council’s conclusion, which runs wholly counter to the union’s ambitions to invest in young people. on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), my questions to the council are: does the council consider that this significant reduction supports the union’s ambitions to invest in young people? how can it be justified if the fight against youth unemployment is one of the union’s top priorities? how can this significant reduction address the need to develop skills and contribute to tackling the social and employment challenges of the post covid-19 era? how does the council intend to encourage member states to enhance the efficiency of this instrument? does the council support parliament’s view that the quality of jobs and traineeships offered to young people is key to ensuring their sustainable integration into the labour market? does the council plan to introduce binding quality criteria for the offers? what concrete measures does the council intend to take in order to improve the outreach strategies and the inclusiveness of the youth guarantee? now my questions to the commission: what is the commission’s assessment of the reduction that i previously mentioned? how does the commission intend to improve the monitoring of the implementation of the youth guarantee and encourage member states to enhance its efficiency? does the commission support parliament’s call to strengthen the quality of offers of employment under this instrument, for example, by reviewing the recommendation on a quality framework for traineeships and by supporting the introduction of a binding principle of remuneration? how does the commission plan to encourage the member states to implement this and to help them define binding criteria for quality offers? the last question would be: what concrete measures does the commission intend to take to reduce unemployment by promoting participation in vocational training programmes under the youth guarantee?
madam president, the recovery of the european union after the pandemic should be mainly about using the reserves that we have in the european union today, and we don't have to take out a loan for them. the european market without unnecessary barriers is the main reserve. a study by the european parliament in 2017 estimated that the completion of the single market would increase the annual output of the european economy by more than eur 600 billion. that's almost the entire recovery plan every single year. for example, member states have hundreds of regulated professions that create barriers to cross-border provision of services. i therefore consider it crucial that we also fulfil our domestic tasks by further removing the barriers to cross-border business and service provision that currently limit our potential for recovery and growth.
mr president, european forests are not doing well. the majority of them are not in good shape. europe desperately needs a good forest strategy – a strategy that would facilitate sustainable forest management for forests intended to be extracted, and strict conservation for those which should remain untouched. neither of these approaches is optional, nor can they be merged. otherwise, we will see the last untouched valleys in the făgăraş mountains being cut down ‘sustainably’. we will see the last capercaillie forest in the tatra mountains being savaged ‘sustainably’. we will see another sustainable harvest in the białowieża primeval forest. all of these ecological tragedies have already happened, because sustainable forestry was promoted where strict protection should have been the only option. the agri report fails to be a good forest strategy proposal. it virtually demands an increase in wood harvesting all over europe, regardless of its inevitable impact on resilience, complexity, sequestration and biodiversity. this is not a good strategy in times of climate crisis and the sixth mass extinction. not at all. but there is an option. we have an alternative file, which is complex, based on factual science and goes along the exact path a good forest strategy should follow. it promotes sustainable forest management and strict protection. it calls for balance. honourable members, i, as a forest scientist, openly encourage you to vote in favour of amendment 2. it is the only way forward for european forests.
mr. chairman, there is a war in nagorno-karabakh. civilians are dying, and children and women are dying. the fighting has even spread beyond the borders of this unrecognized state, which has long belonged to azerbaijan but is mostly inhabited by armenians and has always been a source of tension between armenians and azerbaijanis. the worst fighting since the 1990s has also raised concerns about the fate of the pipeline carrying azerbaijani oil and gas to europe. although the conflict over nagorno-karabakh is one that both armenia and azerbaijan want to control, it is reprehensible that turkey is actively involved in it. as the only nato member and candidate for membership in the european union, it openly supports one of the warring parties, azerbaijan. and if we are to believe the numerous reports from the region, turkey is not only supplying azerbaijan with weapons and ammunition, but even brokering the arrival of paid mercenaries and jihadists from syria to fight in nagorno-karabakh. i am convinced that it is not enough to just discuss it here. but we should do more. i am all the more disappointed that there is no will to adopt a resolution calling for an immediate cessation of hostilities and a return to the negotiating table, but also calling on all the regional powers to refrain from any open support for one of the warring parties. so just as russia, despite the military aid agreement with armenia, has taken a very rational, and i would say, almost neutral stance, so too turkey must stop its open support for azerbaijan. i therefore ask you, mr borrell, head of european diplomacy, to take an active and firm stand on this issue, on behalf of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in fact, it was only a matter of time before one side would attack if it felt it had the military advantage. yet the union, as usual, seems surprised and helpless. i would therefore like to ask the president what means - apart from a resolution condemning the use of force, apart from the ritual appeals for ceasefire and peace and our constructive parliamentary speeches - does the european union have at its disposal to make a significant contribution to the resolution of this conflict? as a major economic partner of both armenia and azerbaijan, does it have any significant soft power, let alone hard power, to positively influence the development of the situation in the region? have we used this soft power to the full? or we don't have any at all, which should lead us to a more realistic assessment of our union.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of voting today at 10.30 a.m. on the dot. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the vote will take place from 10.30 a.m. to 11.45 a.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply; it is well known to all colleagues. the votes on the approval of the new powers of executive vice-president valdis dombrovskis and the approval of the appointment of mairead mcguinness as member of the european commission shall be by secret ballot. members vote in the usual way, but the ballot paper they must receive and sign does not indicate how they voted, only that they voted in both cases. all other votes are by roll call. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 11.45 a.m., as i said. the results of this round of voting will be announced at 2.15 p.m.
we now continue the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the resumption of hostilities between armenia and azerbaijan in the nagorno-karabakh conflict (2020/2809 ((rsp)).
mr president, mr high representative, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. the traditional question of qui bono can be asked in the context of this conflict. who's interest is it? not in the interests of the armenians, not in the interests of the azeris, it's in the interests of russia. it is putin who invites the presidents of both countries from time to time and is such a judge, arbiter, educator and prosecutor. i think it's important to be clear that this conflict is - besides obviously different interests, besides history - also a matter of simply kremlin interest. i think that the european union should be more active, not only in the sense of the resolution of our parliament (that's good) and the voice of the european commission, but perhaps sending a peace mission, a peacekeeping mission, so that not only russia is a playmaker in this region.
president. - mr borrell, please keep your ears and eyes open. what's going on here? what's going on? despot erdoğan wants to restore the old ottoman empire. his aggression is visible everywhere in and outside turkey. recent victims: armenia and nagorno-karabakh. erdoğan's violence is something we can't stop talking about. it is time for the european union to draw a line in the sand. that means sanctions against the regime in ankara. not words, but actions. the time for talking, statements, minsk meetings is over. i stand with the armenian people. that has been defeated by the hard turkish fist for a long time. think of 1915, the genocide. we must act now against turkey, and that is my question to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the nagorno-karabakh conflict is a very complicated one. in 1921 the region, inhabited largely by christian armenians, was annexed to azerbaijan by the soviets. after the collapse of the ussr, in 1991, the armenians of the region voted for independence; the non-recognition by azerbaijan of the result of that referendum has led to a long conflict which is now escalating and which we must absolutely stop. we must achieve a ceasefire, an end to the azerbaijani military aggression, a resumption of the peace process coordinated by the minsk group, and to do this we must reduce the role of erdoğan's turkey, which wants to make this region another piece of its neo-ottoman project, not having any qualms about involving jihadists from syria in the conflict. that it is a nato country that is doing this is bitter and sobering; the fact that turkey is even a pre-accession candidate country to the european union should lead us to close this page once and for all and withdraw turkey's candidate status.
mr president, let me first express my sincere condolences to all of those who have lost their loved ones and friends in this conflict since it erupted in the caucasus again. people are dying in the region and we must therefore do our utmost to seek peace – peace through international dialogue, diplomatic channels and ultimately a lasting solution to the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan. many speakers today have mentioned problems with turkey. but the conflict in nagorno—karabakh has its true origins in soviet times and in moscow. what we in the eu once saw as a ring of european friends in our neighbourhood is turning into a ring of fire and enemies. we cannot stand by and look at neighbourhood policy through the lenses of the last decade. if we do not change our approach to external relations, we shall remain spectators not just in nagorno—karabakh. it is high time to commit more resources to political and economic engagement on the ground, to our active communication, to debunking of disinformation about this conflict as well as strategic foresight. it is high time for true european foreign policy action.
madam president, the european union wants to maintain a nuclear deal with iran and rejects american unilateral action aimed at imposing further sanctions. president trump promises that if he is elected again, he will negotiate a better deal with iran, not only on its nuclear program. can we believe it? i do not know. it’s clear that nothing will be solved on nuclear deal until we learn who wins the election, and whether washington is returning to a nuclear deal or continuing with the controversial sanctions mechanism. time is passing by. now we face the problem when the weapons export embargo will expire in two weeks. on the other hand, we have to remember that we in the eu must remain critical and very tough against tehran in dealing with the ideological opponent, opposition, – iran needs to make further significant progress in the area of human rights if it wants to get more european engagement. the release of some detained citizens with a dual citizenship is a step in the right direction. i think, it is not sufficient – all the repression should stop now.
for the ecr group. madam president, functioning capital markets not only help businesses and economic growth, but also citizens, by allowing them to make money on their savings instead of losing value. to make capital markets work, we need to know the reasons why they are not working well in the eu, we need to have an analysis of best practices in different countries and we need to measure the real benefits for the citizen. the reasons why capital markets don't work have not been well identified for a long time. we have been implementing the capital union since 1999, and since then the share of capital market financing has decreased in the euro area and increased in the us. we obviously don't have a best practice analysis in the action plans, we don't know enough about why in the us 41% of financial assets held by american households are invested through capital markets, in the european union it's only 21%. we also don't know much about why, for example, estonian households have 51% of their financial wealth invested in tradable stocks and slovak households only 1%. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of beneficiaries of the aid. but how can all the tasks for the implementation of the capital union be fulfilled while moving away from the goal of better functioning capital markets? we cannot measure success by the number of legislative changes adopted, but by indicators that correspond to the real benefits for the european citizen.
mr president, firstly, we lack comparable data within the member states of the european union. from those countries that keep these statistics, we get these terrible numbers, 30 to 66 percent of all covid deaths occurred directly in social services facilities. according to the european centre for disease prevention and control, we lacked monitoring systems in social services facilities before the pandemic that could systematically monitor, for example, respiratory diseases in facilities and provide timely reporting at the national level, which could prevent deaths. people with neurological conditions such as dementia or neuropathic disorders are particularly vulnerable. they are shown to have absent symptoms until the patient's condition rapidly deteriorates, and that is often too late. that means we also have to start monitoring this systematically in social services facilities. the problem is the huge under-staffing, which has been mentioned here several times, and the lack of skilled workers in the labour market. they are not only poorly paid in some member states, but also very vulnerable, unable to maintain social distancing and often suffering from a lack of protective equipment. on the other hand, in slovakia, and i would like to point this out, we have seen cases in social services where clients were abused by staff, chained to beds or locked in rooms and restricted from moving. of course, no family visits, so all this was kept under wraps. we clearly need to learn from this pandemic, set up monitoring systems, fill the skills gap, collect comparable data, and effectively protect employees and clients.
mr. chairman, according to the world health organization, in some developed countries, up to 80% of coronavirus deaths are linked to long-term justice facilities. however, there are still large differences in the way cases are reported between member states, in particular with regard to deaths, although the european centre for disease prevention and control has published a methodology for recording coronavirus cases. however, without high-quality and comparable data, good decision-making is not possible: for example, without it, we will not be able to ensure the distribution of a limited number of vaccines or effective medicines against coronavirus to the people who need them most. therefore, even a small error in reporting can endanger the lives of a very large number of the most vulnerable people.
mr president, the e-commerce directive has been in force for 20 years, so many of the principles have apparently been proven. nevertheless, let's discuss what new european rules are needed, from online marketplaces to disinformation. we often talk about the benefits of consumer protection, but we don't talk about the costs to the consumer. for example, banning targeted advertising sounds great. but what will be the impact on the consumer? some analyses claim that publishers' revenues would fall by more than 50% if targeted advertising were banned. it seems to me that not only will services that are now almost free be paid for, but various other services may also become more expensive. we also need to know what all the costs to the consumer are in any design. it is therefore good that the report has managed to include the fact that the rules are adopted with a view to the overall impact on consumer welfare. if we stick to this rule, i believe we will help not only the consumer but also the entire european digital market.
in writing. the future eu's common agricultural policy must be greener, more social and fairer. it should focus on more concrete assistance to small farms and environmentally-minded young farmers, as well as on a stronger strengthening of the rights of workers in the sector. the new forms of modern slavery, which tolerate illegal work, poor working conditions and the literal exploitation of people for low wages, must be eradicated from european farms. cap reform must contribute to increasing respect for labour rights and farmers who violate social rights should not have access to european money, as should those who violate environmental standards. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would also welcome stronger protection of biodiversity, which is also suffering from intensive land management. a sustainable common agricultural policy must ensure a more generous basic minimum income for farmers and strengthen support schemes for young organic farmers. the level of direct payments must also be adjusted so that european support does not end up mainly in the pockets of the agrarian bosses, but at the same time does not harm the functioning of agriculture in countries with traditionally dominant farming on larger farms. the main beneficiaries of european money must be those who work the land, not those who own it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the deteriorating relations between the nuclear-weapon states, the campaigns to modernise arsenals and launchers, the collapse of the inf treaty and the stalled negotiations on the start treaty, the withdrawal of the united states from the iran nuclear agreement and the open skies treaty, the dangerous rhetoric about the usefulness of nuclear weapons are all extremely worrying signs of a resumption of the arms race which the world absolutely cannot afford. i am therefore convinced that the postponement of the tenth npt review conference must be seen as a real opportunity. we must, as europeans, once again strongly reaffirm the centrality and the indispensable nature of the npt, and indeed we must be even more ambitious, because the alternative is simply terrifying. we will use this extra time to intensify the dialogue, both with those actors who share our concerns, suggesting new joint initiatives, and with those who are distant, seeking compromises on all those issues that risk complicating or even undermining the success of the conference. it is therefore essential that the member states arrive at the conference with a strong and coordinated position at european level, also based on the position we will vote on in this plenary, which clearly states that international peace and security are strengthened in a world free from the existence or proliferation of nuclear weapons, that nuclear disarmament does not only mean a reduction in the number of active warheads, but also a reduction in the military and political role assigned to these types of weapons.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i thank you and the honourable members for all your contributions to this important debate. some of you have mentioned figures in the region of 15 000 nuclear bombs. why so many? this a clear evidence that human intelligence could be used in a better way. we are firmly convinced of the enduring values of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. upholding the integrity of the rules-based international system, with effective multilateralism as a key principle, remains the european union’s objective. we need to continue working to achieve results and not allow the pandemic to bring multilateralism to a standstill. the field of nuclear prevention is one of those in which we can and should continue working. downgrading international treaties and regimes and adopting unilateral measures to enforce compliance with non-proliferation will hardly have the desired results. the major global challenges of our era can only be addressed by working in partnership with others. this pandemic that affects all of us should not stop us from continuing our diplomatic and political engagements to deliver results on the critical issue of the non-proliferation of nuclear arms and nuclear disarmament. i can assure you that we will continue to remind member states of our common positions and we will continue looking at what else we can do in order to look for common ground and avoid further polarisation. i can assure you that we will continue to encourage the united states and the russian federation to seek further reductions of their arsenals of both strategic and tactical, as well as deployed and non-deployed, nuclear weapons.
this conversation is over. the amendments are voted on tonight.
the next item is the council and commission statements on police violence in the eu (2020/2823 ((rsp)). i repeat that during this part-session there will be no catch-the-eye speeches, nor will there be any blue-card questions or rules of procedure. i would point out that it is now possible to use the speakers' addresses by remote connection from the liaison offices of the member states.
the president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the commission! when we sat in this house in june of this year to discuss the tragic events in minneapolis, we were all united in grief and anger over the brutal murder of george floyd. for many of us, this has been just the tip of the iceberg, because we're seeing this in far too many places. now, anger and grief are welcome, but more importantly, you have to take the consequences. the council expressly agrees with what you have expressed in your resolution. it is always difficult to draw parallels between events in the united states of america and developments in the european union. but it is nevertheless absolutely clear that all member states of the european union must ensure that the use of force by law enforcement authorities is always lawful, proportionate, necessary and a last resort. we have some tools at eu level to put this important understanding of the work of our security agencies on a firm footing. i would like to mention just a few examples and to highlight the important work of the eu agency for training and education in the field of law enforcement cepol. the relevant offers for the security authorities regularly place the respect of human rights in law enforcement at the heart of the offers. themes such as unlawful profiling, police ethics and the detection and combating of hate crime have been a central part of cepol's training and education of law enforcement officers over the past years. let me highlight one more point. in recent times, there has been a particular emphasis on prevention, prevention rather than coercion. the european crime prevention network has been formally associated with the council's 'prosecution' group and the council adopted conclusions on certain aspects of european preventive policing in 2019. we all know, of course, that the protection of national security remains the sole responsibility of the individual member states. this is guaranteed by article 4 of the treaty on european union and also by article 72 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. however, there are various eu legal instruments which, especially in crossborder police cooperation between our member states, help to ensure that what the security authorities do gets better and is always done consistently on the basis of the rule of law. in this respect, each member state continues to decide on the structure and organisation of its criminal law enforcement. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we need robust systems for effective judicial review and effective redress. this is particularly important in the cases you have mentioned in your remarks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let me make this clear again: all member states of the european union are obliged to prosecute any established offence with their national authorities and to take all other appropriate measures. we are also currently facing controversy in the european union. i would like to highlight the debates we are having in my own country, germany. there is a wide debate about institutional racism. we have now decided, on behalf of my government, that we want to review the security services and in particular the police services, to see where there is a need for adjustment, where we need to improve and where there is still a lack of common understanding in a clear commitment to democracy and against racism. this commitment of all the member states and this common commitment are also important, above all, to the police officers who do an excellent job every day to protect our liberal democracy, to protect our rule of law from the enemies of democracy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. it is therefore all the more important that we reiterate that the commitment of the member states is to do everything possible to ensure that the wrongs are corrected, that there is a clear commitment to a strong rule of law committed to freedom and democracy, and that our security authorities fully respect and protect democratic values and fundamental rights throughout the european union and its 27 member states.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank members very much for this debate. i think it’s a very important topic to debate in this parliament. let me start to tell you about rissa. rissa seidou is a young policewoman in sweden. she’s black. she says ‘the best part of this job is to build trust in the police. we are here for young people. if we succeed in getting someone to leave the criminal path, trust can spread’. that is so right, law enforcement is about trust. trust in society. trust in our ability to protect people. trust that we protect all people regardless of nationality, their sex and their sexual orientation and the colour of their skin. in europe we trust the police. it’s normal to go up to a policewoman or policeman to ask for directions. it’s normal to not be afraid when you report a crime. but black lives matter reminds us it’s not normal for everyone in our societies. and not just in america. sadly, cases of illegal police violence are also reported in europe. i firmly condemn all forms of illegal or disproportionate use of violence and discriminatory practices by law enforcement authorities. that goes against the fundamental rights and values upon which our union is founded. any use of force by law enforcement authorities should be proportionate and justified, otherwise we’ll lose trust. to build trust takes a long time, but it can be lost in an instant. so we must always work hard on trust because people should be able to trust law enforcement authorities and because european policing is based on trust. european policing is community policing. we can only police effectively if we have constant cooperation and the trust of the community. policemen and policewomen have an important and difficult job. they keep people safe from terrorists and criminals. i admire the police officers who fight child sexual abuse, who face terrible crimes and trauma in the line of duty. police put their lives at risk just doing their job. last week a police station was attacked in paris and a gunman shot and wounded a police officer in zagreb. people join the police because they want to help and protect people and protect fundamental rights. we owe it to these policemen and policewomen to strive for zero tolerance towards illegal and racial violence. of course, the european union has limited competence in this area, but we are a community of values. member states should promote and respect law enforcement rules in line with their national constitutions in full respect of human rights. each incident of disproportionate or illegal use of violence brought to oversight bodies should be systematically subject to an in—depth administrative or judicial inquiry. national authorities should investigate individual cases and ensure that justice is served. they should publish the results of these investigations in order to build trust. but there is, of course, a lot that the european union can do. this discussion is linked to the wider debate on institutional racism. our new eu anti—racist action plan includes action for fair policing and protection. for example, training and sharing our best practice at eu level to prevent discrimination, including racial or ethnic profiling, in law enforcement. training is also key. the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) can support member states. cepol’s eu—level training could help create a common understanding of human rights and ethical conduct. what we lack is data. we will gather data on police attitudes towards minorities as part of our anti—racist action plan. what i also can and will do, is to put the topic on the agenda, coordinate and work with our agencies. i know member states are already taking their responsibility. they already have, and still are, putting programmes in place to make sure that law enforcement upholds values and to prevent racism and xenophobia. but i want to make sure that we work together on this. together with europol and the german presidency i am exploring an initiative to assess these existing programmes with european police chiefs, to share and promote the best practice and to identify possible common actions in the future. i really look forward to listening to your contribution to this important debate.
for the ppe group. madam president, i wish we didn't have to have this discussion today. but we must not be silent. the reason we're here is because of the tragic story of joseph hovanc. a slovak citizen who died in police custody in belgium after a disgraceful police intervention. unfortunately, we know of several similar cases of police brutality in other european countries. i have cases in slovakia where police officers attack citizens just because they have a different skin color and the system protects these police officers. the test of true europeanism is therefore our ability to confront all the tragic cases of police brutality head-on. we need a sincere effort to find the truth, justice and redress in the case of the death of joseph hovanco. in europe, police brutality must not be hidden or obscured, it must be dealt with immediately. police officers who are hailing their duties can never be true law enforcers in a european democracy. the shocking footage in the case of jozef hovanc shows that the belgian security forces have failed to train both civilians and police. we wouldn't be talking about the death of josef kovanc today if it weren't for the media coverage of the police cell and the pressure from diplomats and mps. but today's debate is not a solution or a patch to the problems that led to the death of a man who could and should have lived. no problem goes away by refusing to admit it. this is true in many lands. and this is true in belgium, which i believe will soon provide the family of josef chovanc with truth and justice in the case of his tragic death.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank mr chovanec, mr holten, mr bayoh, mr karol sendrei, mr dančo, mr rybár and mr chovanec for their excellent work. these are just some of the names of people who have experienced or been subjected to police brutality within the european union. as many as 63% of victims of physical and racial attacks by police never find the courage to speak openly about their cases and report them. jozef chovanec died after a brutal intervention by the belgian police accompanied by extremist speeches. two and a half years of nothing going on in this case, and they tried to cover it up, sweep it under the carpet, and if it wasn't for the courage of his wife, we wouldn't even know what happened back then. in june, we passed a resolution in parliament on george floyd, an american citizen, fine, i also supported it, i'm very glad we reacted like that, but i have to say that with a slovak citizen, a citizen of the european union, we had to overcome many obstacles together with some slovak colleagues, but i'm glad that we are finally dealing with this because we owe it to jozef chovanc and his family. according to some ngos, police brutality is the most commonly covered-up crime. we need to establish an independent police inspection in the member states, collect detailed data and create a safe environment for the citizens of the european union.
colleague daly, i am compelled to state that according to our rules of procedure banners are not allowed, but thank you for your speech.
madam president, on police cars all over europe we can read the words 'help and protect' and 'help and protect'. it's all the more shocking when police officers take lives for no reason. this is also the case of a slovak citizen, mr jozef chovanc, who in february 2018 received neither assistance nor protection. instead, the belgian police kneeled on him for 16 minutes, making fun of his suffering. it is incomprehensible that we learned about this scandal more than two years after the tragic event. immediately after the shocking revelations of brutality and extremism, we took action. and the good news is, so is the belgian police. she set up teams to investigate the incident, and at my instigation, witnesses were brought in for questioning. in this context, i would also like to commend the current helpful attitude of mr de mesmaeker, commissioner-general of the belgian federal police. but it took pressure from the very top to make something happen that should have been taken for granted. in this case, then, we need to know the answers to the questions: why did this happen? why did we find out so late? and when will justice be done? i respect the work of all honest police officers, but i want to emphasize that human life and human health come first. then the various procedures come into play. i hope that this case will be solved and the guilty will be punished. i believe that our appeal will also lead to a change in police practices that fulfills the essence of the police's mission to help and protect. well, i hope it never happens again that police brutality cases are not investigated objectively. police brutality and extremism have no place in our union. may this day also be dedicated to the memory of mr. joseph chovanc.
the president-in-office of the council has just spoken about the death of mr chovanec. we've already talked about it. as a belgian representative, i am deeply affected, as are almost all my compatriots, by what happened in the belgian prison. i hope for the sake of the families of the victims, but also for the sake of the rule of law in my country, that there will be rapid clarity and transparency about what has happened, and with the right legal follow-up. ladies and gentlemen, our police and security services in europe are of crucial importance to our society. that is why it is so important - and the commissioner has referred to it many times - that there is confidence in those services. let's be clear, this debate is not about the vast majority of our police services, the men and women who do what they're trained to do every day, namely protect society and its citizens. but we cannot be blind to the fact that the figures in our police services on, for example, racial profiling or arbitrary arrests, including racial arrests, are increasing. we don't really have a good view of those numbers, and that's a real problem. we need to know what's going on in our services. transparency is important and we should not close our eyes to the extremism that exists in our police services. i regret that we cannot give sufficient attention to this in the debate today. once again, transparency and clarity are needed and it will be essential to strengthen our services in our society on the basis of trust.
madam president, (inaudible) have seen the shocking recording of police brutality against jozef chovanec, a slovak citizen, perpetrated by members of the belgian police in charleroi, which led to his death. of course it goes without saying that the behaviour of those police officers is deeply troubling, especially against the background of protests in the us against the killing of george floyd. it need not be said that excessive, inappropriate use of force contravenes the european convention on human rights, as well as the belgian constitution. now there was public outrage in slovakia and belgium and across europe, and rightfully so, not least because the proper investigation only picked up steam after public pressure and after the video was released. and again, it goes without saying that there can be no discrimination when it comes to the treatment of eu citizens by the various police forces across member states. this is why i believe that the issue deserves a broader inquiry. i believe that europol should look into the actions of police officers and police training across the eu to make sure that eu citizens receive equal treatment. they must feel safe to go anywhere in the european union without fear of being discriminated against and their rights disrespected by local police forces. we will continue to press on and follow the case of jozef chovanec and push for justice for him and his family, but it cannot stop there.
madam president, in august this year the general public not only in slovakia, in belgium but throughout the union was shocked to learn the background to the tragic case which took the life of the slovak family man jozef chovanc more than two and a half years ago. this followed a brutal intervention by belgian police at charleroi airport. the case is all the more reprehensible because, in addition to the excessive use of force by the police, there was also a clear manifestation of right-wing extremism. it is incomprehensible to me that until recently, on the part of the belgian competent authorities, there was not enough will to properly investigate the whole case and punish those responsible, and the whole approach changed positively only after the release of the video by the media, recorded by security cameras, and the brutal intervention against a citizen of an eu member state proved to be completely incomprehensible and unacceptable to us. we have tried, and i personally have tried, in our practice to include this item on the agenda for today's debate, but i have tried to get a resolution adopted, which unfortunately did not happen, but it is good that today's debate will also raise awareness not only of this case, which affects the slovak citizen, but also of the need for all member states, not only new or old ones, but also belgium and slovakia, to take concrete steps to combat manifestations of extremism, violence and racism in the police forces. such statements have no place in our society, let alone in the state bodies normally responsible for upholding the rule of law.
for the ecr group. madam president, the member states need to return to fiscal responsibility as soon as possible and to have a plan to reduce public debt, which is to exceed an astronomical 100% of euro area gdp this year. the commission's recommendations in the european semester cycle are intended to help them do just that. the report presented, however, looks more at ways of further long-term indebtedness of the member states. i consider the failure to respect fiscal rules to be a rather big irresponsibility and a threat to the monetary area. member states need more structural reforms in the long term, not more debt. in the long run, new debts raise taxes and slow growth. if member states do not undertake the necessary reforms of their economies, they will ultimately have nothing to fund either domestic or costly european priorities such as the 'green deal'. you cannot live forever at the expense of the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus. there are many general points which have been raised, so let me take up a specific case, one which should certainly concern us in this house. i have already spoken here five months ago about the situation of frontier workers. border businesses have also been hit hard by this crisis. i am thinking of entrepreneurs who have a company in the netherlands, for example, who pay taxes in the netherlands and bear social charges in the netherlands. but because they live in another country, in this case often belgium or germany, they are not eligible for dutch support. for many of them, it is becoming more and more difficult to stay afloat. i had hoped that this situation would be resolved by now, five months later, but the opposite is true: the dutch state secretary insists that the tozo scheme (temporary bridging scheme for self-employed workers) is an aid scheme and therefore does not need to be exported. so it is not surprising that these people look to europe for help. the only reason they are not receiving this support is because they are exercising their treaty rights in the area of free movement, treaty rights which we must ensure are guaranteed. i was therefore very pleased that the european commission, in answer to my question, made it very clear that the netherlands was wrong. that there are elements of social security in this scheme and that these people should therefore also be able to be helped. it has not changed the attitude of the netherlands and the state secretary for the time being and the frontier workers are still in the cold! i have therefore submitted additional complaints to you, the european commission, with a large number of them. i would therefore like to call on you today, commissioner: look carefully at these complaints, read the harrowing stories of these entrepreneurs, and help us take steps to ensure that these people are helped.
madam president, i think it is fair to acknowledge that we are, first of all, facing a health crisis with a deep recession against which economic policy can hardly put a cotton ball. and until we have a certain health treatment, until we have succeeded in removing the fears and uncertainties that from the point of view of health alone are striking our societies, it will be difficult to think of an economic policy other than to support spending, to support investment from the public sector. i believe it is important to strengthen the expansionary fiscal policy - and i hope the next generation eu will help with this - and also to support monetary policy activities. because i also want to remind you that inflation in the euro area is still in negative territory and we are still very far from that 2% target. there is therefore room for more fiscal policy, but also for more monetary policy. and as the health crisis begins to subside and we begin to see some certainty about the future -- and we all hope sooner rather than later -- we must recognize that this crisis is going to leave deep scars on our societies, on a few generations, the younger ones, who will have suffered two crises in just a decade. and it is then, at that moment, that we must build, finance and give a future to this european pillar of social rights, which needs support and a very clear commitment from these institutions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a widely anticipated second wave of covid, and yet most european nations seem to have found themselves unprepared. it is true that the union is now working on vaccines, has established common practices on travel restrictions, should be able to avoid new blocks to the internal market, has achieved greater health coordination, although still largely imperfect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the so-called frugals are using the rule of law as an instrument to block a plan that they never wanted. recently, it has also been reported that some countries, thanks to negative rates under the ecb's umbrella, would prefer to finance themselves with national bonds rather than with recovery fund loans, which further reduces the overall impact of the plan. this makes it all the more urgent to remove the instrumental vetoes and to unblock the negotiations immediately, because we need a share of transfers now to support our enterprises before it is too late.
madam president, we all know someone who suffers from a disease that has radically changed our lives in recent months. so i want to assure you from this very spot that it is in our sincere interest to help wherever we can. i am happy to see and meet examples of courage, helpfulness and resilience every day. among medical personnel, supply workers, shopkeepers, office workers. thank you so much for your work. it is in a crisis like this that it is important that we join forces and find solutions that help us and do not break us down and destroy us as a society even more. so during a pandemic, we need responsible policymakers to look beyond the horizon of the next few hours. i am therefore concerned by the frivolousness with which the closure of the borders is being discussed. schengen and the border is not just a 'vacation destination', it is also a free and open area of mutual trade and shared prosperity. the schengen area is our freedom, it is also our prosperity. let's protect him. and don't be afraid to reward work where the reward demands it. at a time when we are seeing many european governments having great difficulty in preparing aid programmes, let us say that this situation is new and that we need a little generosity towards europe and towards european solutions. it is in our interest to do our best to deal with this unprecedented corona crisis, and for that, we have a very big thank you, and a bit of admiration, to the institutions of the european union for the speed with which they have designed functional aid and support programmes. we also need cooperation in health, science and research, a european health union, yes, that will help us all to better respond to public health crises. it's the necessary and the right way. a path that could save lives. ladies and gentlemen, the only way to deal with this crisis is through honest political responses and honest communication. we will overcome the economic and social consequences of the virus the better we pay attention to the facts, the evidence, and the solutions that offer hope and a roadmap for a better post-pandemic world. this is what we must be doing in brussels and across europe in particular in the coming months.
mr president, a total of 13 million hectares are deforested globally each year. the main driver of deforestation is the expansion of agricultural land and the production of three commodities: soy, beef and palm oil. the union has a share in this as it imports up to 10% of the global consumption of products associated with deforestation. we will ask the commission to come up with a legal framework to prevent this and make supply chains bringing products to our markets sustainable. the global preservation of forests and preventing their degradation are some of the biggest sustainability challenges of our time. crucial steps are needed to achieve this, but we are opposing and fighting these steps even in this very house. we should stop pretending that there exists a single ultimate solution called sustainable forest management, a remedy for deforestation. we will lose primary forests all around the world in a vain attempt to manage them sustainably. we must protect primary forests from being extracted. however, not only forests are affected by the degradation as a result of economic activities. in brazil, the cerrado ecosystem is a biodiversity hotspot, home to 5% of global biodiversity. the conversion and degradation of this ecosystem has been happening at a faster pace than for the amazon rainforest and it is crystal clear that these ecosystems will be exposed to increased pressure to be turned into agricultural land. the problem is complex. i will vote in favour of a call for a legal framework that takes account of forest and other valuable ecosystems and therefore recognises forest and ecosystem risk commodities. to sum up, i congratulate the rapporteur for preparing such a complex and effective file and i am ready and happy to vote in favour of it.
mr president, gender ideology is an assault on sanity, a virus that seeks to penetrate into all areas, infecting laws and institutions, distorting reality itself and creating a victim culture without meaning or hope, as is the case in this report, which mixes very important and serious issues, such as aspects affecting human rights - the sex slave trade, female genital mutilation, the marriage of girls - with gender theories in the service of other interests of power, manipulating consciences, and presenting itself as a wolf in sheep's clothing. in this way, instead of inspiring, we export outside our borders philosophies and models that confront and polarize the relations between men and women, provoking conflict, hatred and resentment. we only offer abortion as a source of progress. we want our foreign and security policy to reflect the principles and values which gave rise to the european project, without falling prey to false, fashionable theories which cloud human consciousness, preventing a culture from releasing its best expression.
as you can see, the innovation of this plenary session is continuing with great success: the right of colleagues to speak at a distance. i think we have to give credit to the european parliament for combining pandemic security with the smooth functioning of the institution of parliamentary democracy called the european parliament.
mr president, we are having a debate on foreign policy today and it must be said that the position of women in foreign policy in the european institutions is a rather successful story. yes, there is always room for improvement, but even within the european parliament itself, women play a strong role in our external relations, in the leadership of delegations and in the parliament itself. the issue of gender equality in european foreign policy is elsewhere. in several member states, including the central european region and my own country, slovakia. if we really want to change the position of women in european foreign policy, change must come mainly in those parts of europe where gender equality is far from working as well as in the brussels institutions. in foreign policy, we need strong role models to motivate gender equality work. when was the last time you heard of a foreign policy chief in the visegrad four countries? if you can't think of a name, it's not a coincidence. all the more reason for girls and young women in central europe to be motivated by the success story of slovak president zuzana čaputová. but successful gender equality cannot be built on inspirational stories and favorable circumstances alone. it is and must be about practical measures that support the functioning of family life or pre-school childcare so that my daughter's generation has an equal hope of standing at the forefront of diplomacy in central europe, so that the debate on gender equality in european foreign policy has a strong practical basis across the member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the state of the energy union 2020 report rightly emphasises the impact of the pandemic on the energy sector and proposes a recovery phase that is in line with the objectives of the digital and green transition. in this sense, i am convinced that the recovery and resilience instrument will be able to give new impetus to the member states, which will have to allocate at least 37% of the resources of each plan to the climate transition. the covid-19 pandemic has also further highlighted the need for the european union to reduce vulnerability and external dependence in this area as well, by improving the resilience and diversification of supply chains, as well as storage capacity. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the paris agreement by providing the necessary financial support to the union in the form of grants, loans and guarantees. this does not mean imposing a strategy of industrial degrowth, but starting a process of energy transformation in a decisive way in all sectors, as well as radically rethinking our habits. i am thinking of smart mobility, alternative fuels, the conversion of energy-intensive industries and the digitisation of energy infrastructure. i am thinking, last but not least, of the role played by hydrogen, which, in an integrated energy system, has the potential to promote the decarbonisation of the transport industry, electricity generation and construction throughout europe. but the development of increasingly sustainable energy systems and economies will depend on investment in research and innovation, investment that can further increase the competitiveness of renewable energy, especially in terms of energy needs and costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the caucasus, africa, the middle east, eastern europe, all areas on which we depend for energy, all areas where foreign powers are fuelling instability and conflict to put us under control. that is why europe, if it is to be a strong and autonomous geopolitical actor, needs energy sovereignty, which must therefore be at the heart of the environmental challenge of the green deal, not the pursuit of the whims of greta and of multinationals who want to decapitate our companies with taxes on meat, plastics and various follies. not the subjugation of china that would happen if we focused on electricity alone. the objective must be to guarantee europe's autonomy, by exploiting the energy potential of all its member states, and italy has all the cards to play a leading role in this, solar, wind, hydrogen, not to mention wave energy with realities such as noel in calabria, thanks to which the first zero-impact tourist port could be born in locri. so if you want to build a powerful europe, make the most of this reality and we will be the first to support you. if you are willing to kill our economies to make greta's doormat, we will be the first to fight you.
mr president, commissioner simson, the report on the state of the energy union brings the great problem of energy poverty back into the spotlight. although progress has been made in the european union as a whole, in my home country, greece, the situation has worsened dramatically in recent years. in particular, in 2018, 22,7% of the population reported that they were unable to keep their home sufficiently warm during the winter months, compared to the corresponding average in the european union of only 7,3%. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. however, large-scale multi-dimensional upgrading programmes for buildings and housing in affected areas are also needed, with a focus on the use of circular materials, renewable energy sources and innovative technological solutions. we need to mobilise all available financial instruments from the recovery fund, the community budget, the european investment bank and the private sector. only by taking such action will we tackle the problem, create jobs and put energy poverty behind us.
mr president, we are debating the state of energy today in very different circumstances from those in previous years, and in these circumstances we must put all policies and tools at the service of recovery and resilience. good governance of the energy union has to take account of this new ambition for green leadership. as a member of the negotiating team for the energy governance regulation, i am pleased to see the positive assessment made by the european commission of the content of the national energy and climate plans. the targets set for 2030 remain within reach. the interconnection targets are behind schedule, they need political enforcement. i call for us to focus on the process and its impact, while keeping our eyes on the targets, on securing clean energy at lower prices for businesses and households, on substantially reducing energy poverty, on investing in new distribution and storage models and in new technologies, such as green hydrogen, which will enable all sectors of the green deal to be involved and strengthen the single energy market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to begin by thanking the commission for an important report which shows the role of energy policy in our efforts to reduce climate change. and this year's "state of the union energy" shows that across the eu, we're still spending more money on fossil fuel subsidies than we are on expanding renewable energy - even twice as much. that's 50 billion euros a year we spend pumping artificial respiration into yesterday's technology. climate policy must never be something that stops at rhetoric or pompous speeches. that is why i would like to remind you that just a few weeks ago we voted in the european parliament on the eu's climate law, including new targets for 2030. and these new goals must mean a paradigm shift in our legislative process. the climate crisis is urgent, and the future is 100 percent renewable. and that's what we have to work for.
mr president, the european green deal and green recovery are of rather strategic importance for the union, not only to reach our climate ambitions and respond to climate change, but also in terms of ensuring a fair, yet competitive, energy transition. since last year, the commission has presented initiatives to step up climate ambitions, not only to reach the target for 2030, but also for the long term. i think that we need to update existing legislation, but we also need new proposals as well, for example, in the field of renewables. for member states to achieve the decarbonisation target, we need first an achievable target for all member states, taking into consideration also the different starting points of each. we need an agreement that would be beneficial for everyone. secondly, i may say that we, the policymakers, need to ensure that transition is possible for all regions, including those dependent on coal, and that no sector of industry should be further affected, especially given the covid-19 economic pandemic impact. we need to back the green transition with a consistent and horizontal energy policy, and a modern, climate-neutral, highly resource efficient and competitive industrial base in the eu. as a conclusion, along this way, in the process, we need to ensure consistency across policies, streamlined green deal ambitions, with a feasible transition leaving no region behind, ensuring the resilience of our energy system and the security of our energy supply.
mr president, renewable energy and energy efficiency are the cornerstones of the energy transition. renewable energy will provide the majority of clean electricity in the decades to come. however, huge capital will also be needed to transform europe’s energy infrastructure. strategic choices about where to invest must be made now, taking into account the need to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. but take gas as a fossil fuel: it can be a helpful bridging transitionary medium to be used in many member states if we want to achieve our ambitious climate targets. the gas infrastructure can be used also for the clean hydrogen technology if slightly modified. we need to stop talking only about the energy targets, we have to speak about how to implement these. today our role is to facilitate a just transition, and also recovery, by linking those opportunities with the needs of people who don’t want to fall into energy poverty, where there are already about 50 million europeans.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. almost every day we are invoking the european green deal, almost every day we are detailing exactly how we are going to tackle climate change, and then this number comes along, for which we have the commission to thank. the member states spend €50 billion a year on subsidies for fossil fuels. this is the third highest amount of subsidies we spend in the eu. this is mind-boggling and shows that governments are acting in complete contradiction. on the one hand, we want to increase the price of co2 with the ets, which we all know is far too low. on the other hand, the member states are spending this incredibly large sum on co2 reduction. we must also look at the big picture in energy policy. so let's ban energy subsidies for fossil fuels now! let's put this subsidy into renewables immediately and immediately! the commission is invited to submit such a proposal to parliament. you'd get a standing ovation for that.
member of the commission. – mr president, the state of the energy union is an opportunity for all of us to take a close look at our energy policy, to assess the progress we have made and identify the areas where we need to do even better. it is an extremely thorough exercise to make sure that all the dimensions of our energy policy are delivering and this year’s report is not only the first one since the green deal, it is also the first one since the delivery and assessment of the final national energy and climate plans. there will be many opportunities to engage with member states, stakeholders, and of course with the european parliament, in the coming months on our clean energy transformation and its challenges, and i trust that this report is a good basis to kick off such a dialogue. as already mentioned during my introduction, the state of the energy union contains important additional reports, notably, let me highlight again, the first competitiveness report that is part of the state of the energy union. it shows that green energy is outperforming the conventional energy technologies; also the price of renewables has come down significantly, and the energy efficiency first principle in the renovation wave helps us to create jobs across all the eu. so lower heating bills for households, and it also helps us save energy, and energy poverty across eu has declined but this is still 34 million people too many who struggle to afford a comfortable temperature in their homes. so the green deal and the clean energy transition is an opportunity also for the economy to relaunch investment and jobs. our programme for the next year is to strongly build on these conclusions and we have just adopted the renovation wave, the hydrogen strategy, and we will very soon present our offshore renewable strategy. but we also made a commitment to look at and assess all our basic instruments when it comes to the energy efficiency and renewables. all of these actions are now part of our work programme for 2021. and this is what the green deal means – a cleaner, more competitive, fairer europe. the eu’s current framework will not allow us to reach our 2050 goals and meet our commitments under the paris agreement. simply continuing to implement the clean energy package would see the eu achieving a 60% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. this is not enough to get to the paris agreement. the eu needs to raise its ambition for this decade now and the impact assessment we have conducted shows that a balanced realistic pathway to carbon neutrality by 2050 requires an emissions reduction target of 55% by 2030. this is why the commission proposes to cut emissions faster by 2030. now let me briefly also touch upon the importance of nuclear safety because i received yesterday a letter from 40 members of parliament expressing their concerns regarding the safety of the astravets nuclear power plant in belarus. i would like to reiterate the commission’s commitment to ensuring the highest levels of nuclear safety globally, and especially in the eu’s closest neighbourhood. in the case of astravets power plant this means verifying that all key safety recommendations from the european nuclear safety regulators group (ensreg) are implemented prior to the start of commercial operations of the power plant in early 2021. the 7 november event is a one-off operation to test the generation of a small quantity of electricity. the peer review by ensreg’s nuclear safety experts is well underway. it is important that the experts are able to complete their work, which would allow them to draw their own independent conclusions. the peer review is expected to be completed prior to the commercial operation of the plant. the commission is making great efforts to maintain engagements with belarus in this regard. however, we will need to operate within the current political reality of the political developments in belarus. nonetheless, the commission is prepared to apply increased political pressure to see that the key recommendations are not implemented before the start of the commercial operation of the plant. this is also about our energy union.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i welcomed the report prepared by the european commission. the integration of the union's energy policy is a key interest of our citizens, as the energy union is a prerequisite for meeting our climate commitments by 2050. my fellow members of parliament! in addition to climate protection, the other important objective of the energy union is to reduce the vulnerability of the eu member states to energy sources. the promotion and deployment of renewable energy sources therefore not only serves climate protection objectives, but also contributes to the ability of the eu member states themselves to ensure the security of energy supply for their citizens. while eu directives encourage strategic self-sufficiency at eu level, some member states' governments, such as the orbán government, are becoming increasingly dependent on russia for energy supplies. if you're not buying gas from them, you're buying a nuclear power plant that will never be able to produce electricity at market prices. we are fighting to make the union a place to live in today, tomorrow and 50 years from now, and it is therefore urgent that the energy union is set up as soon as possible.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the alignment of the energy charter treaty with the european green deal (2020/2827 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that, as is well known, no spontaneous statements, no blue cards or statements on the rules of procedure will be accepted in all debates. we will also be joining in this debate colleagues who are giving their views online from the liaison offices. you also know that during this debate president sassoli will come to the agenda to announce the winner of the sakharov prize after the meeting of the conference of presidents.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to debate on this important topic today. the energy charter treaty is in need of substantial reform. in the past years, the european union, including this parliament and the member states, have repeatedly called for a modernisation of the charter. the need for reform is also considered necessary by most of the other contracting parties. based on its negotiating mandate, the commission has engaged in this negotiation with determination and a clear position. however, we know that a successful modernisation of the energy charter treaty will be a challenge, and it will require that all the contracting parties and stakeholders contribute to this collective result. for the eu, the objective of making the energy charter treaty green is at the heart of the modernisation process. member states have given their permission, a mandate to negotiate, which reflects the eu’s reformed investment project protection standards, and ensures strong sustainable development provisions. the commission also has a duty to make the energy charter future—proof, so that it can help us address climate change, and clean energy transition goals, and facilitate a transition to a low carbon energy system in line with the objectives of the paris agreement. with the adoption of the european green deal and the eu commitment to move to climate neutrality by 2050, the european commission has now stepped up its climate ambitions. once confirmed by the co-legislators, the revised greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for 2030 will need to be reflected in our negotiations. a level of ambition, as proposed by the commission for at least 55% greenhouse gas reduction, requires transposition into concrete actions, including in the external dimension of the un energy and climate policies. honourable members, let me update you on the progress of the energy charter treaty’s modernisation process. the negotiations with the energy charter’s contracting parties have started in 2020. we had two rounds of negotiations so far, in july and september. a third round is scheduled for 3 until 6 november, another round is already planned for the end of february, or march 2021. based on the negotiating directives adopted by the council in july 2019, the commission submitted in advance of the first round of negotiations, a proposal addressing specifically investment protection and dispute settlement. the text proposed also puts forward new provisions on sustainable development in the area of climate change, and clean energy transition in particular. these provisions recognise the urgent need of pursuing the paris agreement in order to effectively combat climate change and its impacts, and to regulate to that effect, at national level. our ambition in the modernisation reflects the eu’s leading role in ensuring that the energy transition happens also in partner countries, in line with the paris agreement goals. for this reason, we will proceed with a pragmatic and realistic approach to ensure successful outcomes. the complex negotiations ahead of us involve a variety of factors, and require increased cooperation, and accelerated efforts, in order to achieve the necessary consensus among all contracting parties, some of which are at different stages of development of their energy and climate policies. we can trust that the european green deal is at the core of our eu policy. it is our political aim, to ensure that the energy charter treaty only protects those investments that support transition to a climate neutral energy system. i want to make the european charter a tool also for a clean energy transition that is aligned with our eu agenda and with our collective goals under the paris agreement. we count on the european parliament to support us in this process.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the energy charter treaty provides a multilateral framework for energy cooperation that is unique under international law. today 81% of investments protected by the energy charter treaty are intra—eu investments. however, it is important to recognise that the treaty is outdated, notably when it comes to arbitration clauses between foreign investors and member states. the treaty must reinstate europe’s rights to regulate, particularly on the issue of climate change. we must insist on the establishment of a multilateral investment court. our response to the voices asking to withdraw collectively from the energy charter treaty, in order to allow for the implementation of europe’s clean energy package, must be a deep revision of the treaty, addressing the paris agreement deals and aligning with our green deal road map, in order to reshape our economy into green and digital, and finally secure that this alignment will provide sustainable and affordable energy prices for all consumers. but we are not naive. unanimity requires compromise. we must work multilaterally in finally concluding a forward-looking energy charter treaty, with the clear provision of phasing out fossil fuels, with the safeguarding of energy security through the operation of more open and competitive energy markets, while respecting the principles of sustainable development and sovereignty over energy resources.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me be quite clear, crystal clear, the energy charter treaty is not in line with the green deal. it’s an instrument of the past, it’s even an instrument of a former decade. favouring large fossil fuel companies over the environment is not the way forward. it’s not adapted to the current reality, and not to our climate ambitions. as has been stated also in the former debate, there’s a fundamental reform necessary in our energy system and we will not succeed doing that if the ect continues to protect fossil fuel investments. moreover, and that is very interesting and very frightening to see, that it is expected that more cases targeting climate policies will arise, once member states start to implement the commitments that they have made in line with the green deal and the paris agreement, and that is unacceptable. so we need a fundamental reform of the ect. this will not be easy, as for instance, japan already stated that it is not in favour of a fundamental reform. i want to be also crystal clear on what the next step should be, that if it is not possible to have a fundamental reform, i think it’s absolutely necessary that the eu prepares itself to withdraw from the ect. we’ve made that clear also in a former debate, and in a former a vote on the climate law, where we clearly made a statement on the ect. so my question to the commission is very simple. the commissioner thinks it is possible to align the ect with the green deal. i do not doubt the good intentions that the commissioner has, and the commission overall, but i do doubt that we have the good partners in place to make that reform possible: will you be able and ready to withdraw from the treaty the moment that you see there is no possibility for a good reform?
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, it’s great that we are having this debate, but this should be only the start. we need to put the spotlight on the energy charter treaty and ensure that it receives the attention that it needs. and it deserves attention, because as they say ‘houston, we have a problem’. problem, that the treaty that we only experts only really know about can cost us billions in compensation for private companies, often shell companies. if we want to prevent catastrophic climate change costs us public money that we urgently need to avert the climate crisis. because the energy charter treaty as it stands is not and, i repeat, not compatible with the european green deal nor several international legally binding commitments, let’s say, for example, the paris agreement. we have a problem if we, for example, invest now in gas and in twenty years, we need to shut it down because we have available alternative and ran out of the carbon budget. what do we do then? start compensating all the investors? to put it simple, we cannot and should not protect investments into fossil fuels. the risk of climate crisis is already known to all investors; they don’t need the protection and they should not get it. now this is where you might expect me to tell you the solution, but i will not. right now, i want the commission and the member states to tell us, the citizens of europe, what you want to do about it. you want to renegotiate – that’s good to hear, but what do you do if the negotiations fail? because when it comes to climate, we cannot afford to fail. we would not be forgiven.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the recovery and resilience fund can be of great help to the european economy. if we spend money well and invest in projects that move us the most out of all the available alternatives, it will be a unique opportunity to jump-start economic growth in europe. however, the recovery and resilience fund also carries significant risks. there is a risk of the private sector and the more efficient part of the economy being pushed to the margins, the so-called dutch disease, and there is a risk of increased corruption. instead of debating how much of the recovery and resilience fund's spending should be allocated to individual sectors, which is the fashion right now, we should go back to how we talked about this fund in the beginning. flexible conditions for member states to invest in growth-oriented, return-oriented reforms.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european court of auditors has for years criticised the ineffectiveness of several european programmes, which are outcome-oriented rather than results-oriented for citizens. however, the commission often does not accept these warnings. the impact assessments of the commission's proposals on society are often inadequate and do not use appropriate indicators to measure the actual results for citizens. it is this plenary, to which the commission is accountable, that is to be responsible for safeguarding the money of the european taxpayer. what we need most now is to allocate more efficiently. we should therefore call for more precise impact clauses and higher quality outcome indicators to help us make sound decisions.
madam president, the consequences of the health crisis are many in many ways, they are shaking up democracies in the way they organise the rights and duties of each citizen, but also in their internal functioning. the very fact that the vast majority of members of the european parliament are in fact under house arrest in the exercise of their duties, that they can no longer vote in the chamber, that they can no longer meet, poses a real political problem. and this at a time when we need europe more than ever. we are the continent most affected by the epidemic, we are the continent most affected by the economic crisis, the terrorist threat is at our borders and on our territory. we therefore have an urgent duty to find solutions which will enable us to carry out our mission fully, or at least as abnormally as possible. and this, while we know that the health crisis will not last just a few more weeks, but several more months. so i propose that we put in place stricter health conditions to enable us to carry out our mission in collaboration with our teams. there may, for example, be antigen tests which give results in fifteen minutes and which the european parliament can obtain. we could also, before entering the chamber, give a negative covid test certificate. so, if we are agile and if we are inventive, solutions exist. we must be particularly uncompromising in respecting health regulations, but we must also be demanding in relation to the expectations of the people, who want, especially in times of crisis, that democracy can produce its full effects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the pandemic has made it absolutely necessary to take extraordinary measures to protect the lives of european citizens, measures which, as we know, have unfortunately often also involved restrictions on individual freedoms. this is a very exceptional situation, which has been made necessary by the spread of the virus and the need to save human lives. but if that is acceptable, if that is understandable, if that is even right, it is not, on the contrary, the abuses of power that are also occurring, madam president, and that concern, i want to stress this very strongly, in particular women, because it is now proven that in many countries access to legal and safe abortion and to all the care that is related to sexual and reproductive health is denied or hindered. there are countries, such as poland, which have taken advantage of this emergency situation to restrict the freedom of their citizens, and that, madam president, is absolutely unacceptable.
i'm not going to tell you. the pandemic has tickled our democratic life. we have no better proof than the fact that the plenary is being held virtually, remotely, today. so democracy, fortunately, lives on, but it is important to find a meaningful life for it, to limit democratic institutions only to the extent necessary and for a predetermined time. these principles must apply to the work of all parliaments in europe. the pandemic also shows how vulnerable we are. in addition to the virus that's invading our bodies, there's been a massive spread in recent months of a virus that's invading and destroying the verified information, facts and scientific knowledge that we rely on so heavily in our search for the right policy decisions. the fight against misinformation suddenly takes on a different, more urgent dimension as we see how lies on social media about guaranteed coronavirus cures, mask use, and vaccinations are destroying people's health and lives. disinformation can be deadly. and we in europe must stand together against the growing infodemia. our citizens have the right to honest and truthful information from their governments, the media, but also on social media. online must be as true as traditional media, that facts always take precedence over lies. and every social media user in europe deserves the same level of protection against manipulative content. democracy needs digital platforms that are accountable and transparent to their users. not the kind that sabotages fair political debate and spreads disinformation regardless of the consequences to people's health.
in writing. it is good that after a longer and initially ineffective response by central european authorities to the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic, the european commission is continuing to take steps that contribute to a better management of this health crisis in all eu countries. the european commission has signed pre-purchase agreements with several pharmaceutical suppliers, which should ensure the creation of the most diversified vaccine portfolio for our citizens. it is now important to ensure that only vaccines that have been definitively shown to be not only highly effective but also maximally safe reach the public. but i must stress that the whole process of procuring vaccines is not transparent enough even for us meps. i understand that not everything is possible because of trade secrets, but the commission still needs to improve communication on this whole process considerably. it is important for all of us, including slovakia, that the european commission commits to providing a vaccine for all those who need it, and that it be this winter. it is not for the central authorities but for the member states to decide which categories of the population to include in the first vaccination package. vaccination should not be compulsory, but the european commission, together with the governments of the member states, should ensure the best quality and most reliable information possible on the benefits of vaccination.
madam president, the climate emergency, and now also the health crisis, have made it even more evident that we must govern, invest, produce and consume in radically different ways. but that afterlife will not become a reality without a major impulse on our part. the european sustainable investment plan must be a crucial element of this transformation. indeed, if we do not invest in the right sectors and in accordance with clear criteria that serve the objective of transformation towards societies capable of responding to these crises, this next world, although very necessary, will be nothing but wishful thinking. in several recent reports, the european court of auditors has sharply criticised the commission, firstly, for the way in which european funds are spent and, secondly, for the fact that the indicators for monitoring our expenditure are not adequate. this means that the funds would not be used in the right way, but also that the evaluation methods we use today are not even able to tell us precisely whether the funds used are having the expected effects. in this context, i would like to thank the two co-rapporteurs for their work, which integrates all these data. it is essential that investments under the sustainable investment plan, both private and public, respect the do no harm principle and that a significant share of the various financial instruments is dedicated to climate and the environment, in line with green taxonomy criteria. as regards the monitoring of expenditure, the report rightly stresses the need to adopt new instruments to ensure that european spending is moving in the right direction. i would like to end by welcoming the work of mr pierre larrouturou on the question of the means of financing this fund. the financial transaction tax will allow us to move faster and more strongly towards the objective pursued.
madam president, two days ago, we achieved something very important for our future, the deal about the mff, as well as the next generation fund, is not only about ensuring 30% for climate, but also about 10% for biodiversity by 2026. i’m glad that our colleagues in the council finally understood that we don’t only face a climate crisis, we also face a biodiversity crisis. but our success to become sustainable, our success to achieve carbon neutrality, live within planetary boundaries, can only be done then when its not about 30 or 10%, when its about policy coherence. when the entire budget, the remaining 70%, in terms of climate for example, are not undermining the effort. our integration of sustainability in our policies and politics has to also cover public funds. today we discuss the plan to unlock eur 1 trillion of sustainable investments over ten years. we cannot afford and we don’t want pretty packaging for an empty box, no empty promises and no greenwashing. we already lost many years and cannot lose more. that is why i believe that all eu-supported investments and finance need to be subject to the eu taxonomy, and need to be in line with the ‘do no harm’ principle. we cannot undermine what we will achieve. we need to make sure that not only our left hand knows what our right hand is doing, but that we work hand-in-hand.
thank you very much, mr cormand, and thank you very much to the rapporteur for this parliament. i now give the floor to commissioner reynders on behalf of the commission. i thank him on behalf of president sassoli and myself for being here today. please, commissioner, please.
member of the commission. i am delighted, mr president, thank you for giving me the floor. i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr david cormand, and congratulate him on his report on a sustainable single market. the european commission welcomes the imco committee's initiative and the european parliament's commitment to sustainable development. we share the ambition for strong and multidimensional political action within the union to further facilitate the transition to a more sustainable, resource-efficient and circular economy. the commission set out its strategy in the circular economy action plan adopted earlier this year. like mr cormand's report, the circular economy action plan recognises that the transition will require measures on both the supply and demand side. we agree that a number of the changes needed, such as better rules for the lifespan and reparability of products, will require product-specific and sectoral approaches. evidence shows that 80% of environmental impacts are determined at the design phase of a product, and that's exactly where the sustainable products initiative will step in. it will set out sustainability principles and specific requirements linked to environmental and social aspects. in this context, the digital product passport could combine unique product identification with data collected by different actors in the value chain. this could provide better information to economic operators, market surveillance authorities and the general public. it could enable more sustainable products, as well as the emergence of new sustainable business opportunities, strengthening the competitiveness of eu industry and the resilience of the eu economy. various measures, both horizontal and product-specific, should also contribute to establishing an effective right to repair. we also want to ensure high environmental performance for all products placed on the eu market. work is ongoing within the framework of the ecodesign directive, with the focus on durability, reparability and efficiency of products. this horizontal initiative, together with some sector-specific proposals, such as the circular electronics initiative, will respond to a number of points included in your report. the new consumer agenda, which we will discuss later this evening, also provides for action on the demand side. it will include an ambitious programme of empowering consumers' participation in the green transition. in 2021, a legislative initiative will aim to ensure better information for consumers. it will help them choose products, not only according to the price, but also based on reliable and clear information about the products' durability, availability of spare parts and accessibility of repair services. the commission will, at the same time, address certain commercial practices which undermine consumers' trust notably early obsolescence, as well as greenwashing. in parallel, the commission will propose rules for the substantiation of green claims, to further reinforce the credibility of consumer information. public procurement plays an important part as well as the demand side. the commission is working on criteria and targets in sectoral legislation for minimum mandatory green public procurement, as well as comprehensive guidance on public investment into sustainable infrastructure projects. for green public procurement to be widely used, the environmental impact of products and services needs to be standardised and must use comparable assessment methodology. several points in the report also touch upon the sale of goods directive. this important directive will start to apply as of 1 january 2022. as announced in the new consumer agenda, the commission will use the future review of the directive to explore how it could contribute to sustainability goals, including by taking into account a number of issues raised in mr cormand's report. and i would like to assure you, mr cormand, that, as i have just said, we will react to a whole series of points which are the subject of the proposals you have just mentioned. we shall see how far we can go in all these remarks, but i thank you again for your attention. i am of course looking forward to hearing your remarks and possible questions and proposals.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, first let me thank my imco colleagues for this very important initiative. there is an overall agreement on the goal to become climate-neutral and a circular economy. the discussion is not about the goal, but how to get there and i think that is a very fundamentally good thing. it’s also symbolic that we’re having this discussion during the european week for waste reduction, because let’s not forget that prevention is the best way to deal with the waste problem. last year saw the heated discussion on whether premature obsolescence exists. i personally believe it does. they don’t make them like they used to, as the idiom goes. but it’s not only about the cheap products from china, it’s also about expensive goods and software from big western multinational companies. a company with a popular fruit in its name and logo is a well-known example. of course it would be so easy to blame the companies for all the problems, but it would not be correct. we all have a share. we all have a shared responsibility for the situation. we have created a system where the preferred choice is to throw away and buy new rather than fix or upgrade. so it is companies that need to change. it is the consumer culture that needs to change. but it’s up to us, the legislators, to change the system, to change it in a way that leads us to a climate-neutral and circular economy. this means more information and rights for consumers. this means stepping up our efforts against premature obsolescence by ensuring and supporting reparability of the product, reuse, replacability of the parts, extending the guarantees and changing the designs of products to extend their life cycles. this will not only help the consumers and increase their trust in the european market and the european ideas, but also create opportunities for small and local businesses across the eu, stimulate innovation and maintain the value of the product. i believe that this is the right step towards a win-win for citizens, businesses and the planet.
mr president, i have long considered the overall benefit to the consumer to be the main objective in consumer protection and in the creation of market rules. the consumer benefit naturally includes the environmental impact. that means we shouldn't do green measures without knowing their overall impact. without data and analysis, it's easy to see that the effect is the opposite. we should learn from the cases of biomass or oilseed rape. the experts in the imco study say that the proposed mandatory product life extension may have a negative side and therefore recommend soft regulation, i.e. improving consumer awareness of the expected life or repairability of products. i agree with that. however, this report suggests what the experts in the study generally do not recommend, namely strict regulation. since the measures recommended in this proposal are not supported by evidence and analysis, on the contrary, i cannot support this wording.
in writing. it is regrettable that even today we do not guarantee our consumers in the european union a realistic possibility of having their purchased goods repaired at an affordable price, even after the guarantee period has expired. while almost 80% of eu consumers would prefer to repair a broken appliance rather than buy a new one, due to the exorbitant cost of repairs or even the lack of spare parts, our citizens often have no choice but to buy a new product. the lifespan of many household appliances on the european market is significantly lower than it was a few years ago, as evidenced by european surveys, and the existence of so-called cartridges can no longer be described as mere hoaxes. while refrigerators once lasted 20 to 30 years, many now go out of service shortly after the warranty period expires. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'carton' in the definition of the term 'carton'. this is despite the fact that a large number of our colleagues on the right are opposed to this effort. we need to legislate for the right to affordable repair by a specialist service provider, as well as a union-wide spare parts guarantee. we also need to push for the introduction of a single universal mobile phone charger, which would significantly reduce the production of e-waste.
for the ecr group. madam president, class actions, i.e. those in which a large group of consumers jointly sue companies, were once used in a minority of countries and had a reputation for being artificial litigation in the rest of the world, the most famous example being the usa. in recent years, however, the practice has spread to an increasing number of countries. seventeen of the 25 largest economies allow for class action lawsuits. most of these practices have been introduced in the last 20 years. i think that the success of class actions lies in the fact that they are an effective complement to direct regulation in the field of consumer protection. that's why i'm supporting this motion.
mr president, the annual report 2018 - 2019 that we are discussing today mentions many areas such as persistent discrimination, unequal access, the rise of racism and xenophobia, poverty and migration. year after year, we see the same thing, not only do people feel that the institutions responsible are not able to cope, but the situation is actually getting worse, despite the fact that we have legal and financial mechanisms. we must remember, and the current pandemic has confirmed this, that the freedom of the individual ends where the freedom of the other begins. for example, wearing a mask, it's not about whether i like it or not, but about being responsible, when wearing a mask protects not only myself but also those around me. so we cannot enforce our rights by denying the rights of others. the union cannot have the ambition to be a leader in digitalisation, artificial intelligence or the green deal if it forgets about vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. the poor, the elderly and the socially excluded cannot be denied the right to a life of dignity. no child can be denied the right to education. the union will only achieve its ambitions if we get rid of the threat of terrorism. people will be safe on the streets, in schools, in churches. the union must find a way to prevent disinformation and hoax being exploited by extremists. our ambition must be to change not just the news. here europe must be the leader in respecting the rights of each one of us. these are interlinked areas, complex solutions, and i would therefore welcome a more balanced text for this report.
i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 12.15. the results of the first round of voting today will be announced at 3 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mr durand (a9-0211/2020) (2020/2088 (ini)).
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr durand on his balanced and ambitious report. there is, however, one major point: these european elections are still too little european. despite a higher participation rate, the debates remained confined to a purely national context in the 27 member states. let's make this election european! i say we put the church back in the middle of the village. the promotion of a genuine transnational political space is essential for a fully-fledged european democracy. there is no real european political movement today. yet imagine the impact in terms of strength and legitimacy. it should be remembered that the idea of transnational lists was born primarily to solve these problems. let us encourage a genuinely european debate through the emergence of transnational political movements with visions and agendas on the union and directly elected by citizens. let's be ambitious for may 2024 and double the democratic choices of the citizens. the latter will be able and will have to vote for a national list and a transnational list. it's a question of legitimacy, it's a question of democracy, it's a question of visibility so that citizens understand what they are doing. so, mr president, let us stop pretending, we want to have front-runners for the presidency of the european commission. so, logic would suggest that to achieve this goal, it is essential to have lists. the agreement reached at the beginning of this parliamentary term provided for work on improving the list headings system, but also for the implementation of transnational lists. the two go together: no head of the list, no list, i would say. our time is running out: implementing electoral law reform in the 27 countries of the union will take time, we must start now to complete it by 2024 for a true european and transnational democracy.
i am sorry to say that this report - and i am afraid the rapporteur will take it as a compliment - is the most extremist document produced by the centralist, federalist and europeanist elite in this parliament during this parliamentary term. first of all, the document is a reflection of the very common confusion in the circles of extremist supporters of the european union between europe, the continent, the type of civilization, the cultural reality on the one hand, and the european union on the other. i call myself a supporter of europe, a representative of the european cultural identity, based on the added value of differences. however, the european union is, in my view, only an institution, an organisation and a form of cooperation agreed by treaty between independent member states. the advocates of the european union as an all-embracing and as far-reaching unitary state have adopted the broad and rich concept of europe, calling their european union 'europe' and their actions and their expansions of competence 'european', usually followed by a noun: european health care, european single currency, european immigration, european economy, in all cases they call it european progress, and so here today is a genuine european electoral law. of course, full of the ancient dadas that are proclaimed here, as if they were the ten commandments that moses colleague durand brought from the mountain. the territory of the european union as a single electoral area. one general electoral list the transnational list. the member states are being abolished, because in the european union the member states will no longer be the council of the european union but a subordinate second legislative chamber, a kind of advisory body of this parliament. the national political parties are gradually being replaced by transnational european political parties, which will naturally have only one programme and may later have one: the programme of the further integration of this european union. in short, ladies and gentlemen, the extremism of the european union is reaching a new peak today. as a convinced european, a supporter of a union of free peoples, i wanted to say that very clearly here to warn against it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the left-liberal majority in this chamber has made it clear that it is concerned and engaged with issues that have nothing to do with the agenda of the societies of the citizens of the european countries. there are two things that are of concern to the citizens of the european countries at the moment. how to overcome the effects of the health crisis, of the pandemic, and how to preserve the economy. against this background, in this room, the european parliament is consistently continuing to impose the dictates of some small groups that have identified themselves as minorities in societies, to give federalist ideas, to deal with ideas such as, the lead candidate of the pes, by the way, is an example of how the idea of a lead candidate fails. they had put forward a leading candidate, they had tricked their voters into voting for him and they had elected another man as president of the commission, which only shows that double standards are welcome when they come from the left, when they come from the socialists, the liberals and so on. i would remind you that the agenda at the moment is not how to make a federalist union, the agenda is how to preserve the jobs and the lives and health of the citizens of the european countries.
mr president, i would like to thank pascal durand for his report. on the european elections, two things come to my mind. first, how the spanish electoral commission first tried to exclude myself and my colleagues from running on the list and then, when that failed and we got elected with one million votes, blocked our right to be meps for six months. second, oriol junqueras, my former colleague in government, is still in jail and was condemned to 13 years behind bars, despite his being an elected mep. the spanish supreme court did not care about this or about his immunity and violated the rights of meps. this is a shame. all meps should defend the right of oriol junqueras to be an mep by voting for amendment 49. electoral rules cannot depend on member states. today it is spain, tomorrow, who knows? as mr durand proposed in his report, we need a european electoral authority that ensures the respect for european rule of law with an effective tool, a new european electoral law.
mr president, first of all, i would naturally like to congratulate myself and all of us on the voter turnout in 2019. it was, in fact, a living proof of the european union and european citizenship. i would also like to congratulate mr durand on his report, on which i have a number of disagreements, but in the main text, the text that really counts, all the possibilities were left open. this was an important effort to ensure that the citizens at the conference on the future of europe have the freedom to decide, yes, because that is the most important thing. if we want to rethink the european electoral system, if we want to rethink the system for appointing the president of the commission, parliament cannot be the only one to predetermine and condition the debate of the conference which it wanted to open to the citizens. and here i turn to english. i have to say to all my colleagues that what mr gozi has said here is not acceptable because, firstly, there is a european political force that is already in place and that is the epp. probably, this is not the case for renew. second, because there is no federation with a transnational or a single constituency there is no federation like that so why should the european union have it? finally, when you say that the president of the executive should have a kind of transeuropean legitimacy, i ask what is the legitimacy of the chancellor of germany or the prime minister of england? they are also legitimate and they have their single constituencies. so i urge you all to vote in favour of this report, but to vote against recital t and to vote in favour of amendment 26, because they are trying to condition the freedom of the conference on the future of europe.
mr president, i want to support both the rapporteur and some of the speakers in favour of this report, but i want to point out something to mr puigdemont, because it seems that there is only one debate here, which is the debate on how to create victimhood in a clear case of attack on the democratic rule of law in spain. because not only states can become illiberal, but also sub-state entities can attack the democratic rule of law. in catalonia, in september 2017, the separation of powers was annulled with illegal acts. that is an attack on the democratic rule of law. populism is not just in poland or hungary or some forces that are around here. there is an absolutely exclusive identity populism in catalonia. and here they use all the rights that we liberal democrats give them to lie, to attack the democratic state. we need to defend ourselves against populism in europe, and europe is necessary for that.
madam pagazaurtundúa, allow me to make a comment: although i do not agree with everything you say, i think it was a moment like this. we often talk about wanting to make the debates more lively, but if someone simply puts aside his prepared speech and talks about someone who has spoken before, the speeches will become more lively of their own accord, so we do not need to change the rules of procedure at all.
mr president, the durand report makes a strange assessment of the 2019 european elections. i agree with him on one thing. like him, i welcome the increased participation in the elections, which is an encouraging sign of renewed interest in the democratic process. but i disagree on the explanation for this renewed interest. in france, voters have moved not because the union's costly and useless campaign "this time, i vote" has borne fruit, but because they are passionate about the struggle between the two main lists. the one of jordan bardella and the national rally, which finally triumphed over that of the president of the republic, emmanuel macron. it is very presumptuous to draw from this increase in participation the lesson of citizens' accession to the union, because in the aftermath of the yellow vest revolt, many voters voted to show their distrust of the ultra-liberalism of the union, which they rightly consider to be partly responsible for their misery. the durand report does not merely take stock of the elections, but uses them as a pretext to outline the reforms which, in its view, would make it possible to improve the union. but the dream he describes sounds like a nightmare to me. the report seeks to strengthen the commission's political role, in particular by introducing the system of candidates in the lead. on the contrary, i would rather remove any political role from the commission by transforming it into a simple permanent technical secretariat. the report seeks to marginalise the council by turning it into a second chamber, i.e. a sort of senate. on the contrary, i would rather strengthen its role by entrusting it with the legislative initiative. the report seeks to transform the european parliament by representing an unreachable european people with transnational lists, unified electoral law and the creation of a european electoral authority. on the contrary, i would rather see a reflection on how to make it more representative of european nations. in conclusion, i am opposed to the durand report because it seeks to create a supranational empire, whereas i support the project of a europe of nations.
mr. chairman, please! in accordance with your summons, i will not read my statement. and now i want to address my colleague who had a quarrel with his colleague dzhambazky. well, it's true, federalism is not related to because it's not something that's been done to any processes that we could criticize. but if you look back at the history of europe, we know that there have been situations where the unification of europe by force, the unification, the elimination of cultural differences, led to crime. yes, even to the point of murder. this is the history of central and eastern europe and even the holy roman empire of the german nation waged war. this integration we are talking about was supposed to be based on other principles, on the principles of respect for nations, national cultures, differences in political cultures, constitutional identities and so on. unfortunately, you want to introduce something else entirely. and it's going to end badly for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to express my thanks to my colleague, mr pascal durand, for his report. it is clear that this is a contribution, and a proposal, to the forthcoming conference on the future of the european union. my delegation shares many of the points of the report, and therefore, very clearly we must state that although we had the highest voter turnout in 20 years in 2019, the abstention rate remains too low at 50.6% of all eligible citizens. the report shows that much needs to change institutionally and structurally in european electoral legislation, which is a pillar of democratic participation in shaping the architecture of the european union today and in the future. i therefore strongly support the proposal to introduce a top-up system so that citizens have a direct say in the election of the president of the european commission and to introduce transnational lists for the elections to the european parliament. gender-balanced electoral lists, a europe-wide right to vote from the age of 16: these are important points for this debate.
mr president, when we discuss the report by mr durand on the european elections, it is very important that we stick to the facts. we really need an honest discussion of this election to draw the important and fair conclusions. and that honest discussion has to start with context. and the context of that election was the context of the crisis, the brexit, the migration crisis. and in that context, i want to emphasize that we have seen a historic mobilization, a historic turnout in this election. indeed, after 20 years, it has increased significantly across the european union. in my own country, slovakia, the turnout was 10% higher than in the past. and that participation was a mobilization of pro-european forces, populists did not win, pro-european forces won, hope for the future of the european project won. and it is important that we keep that hope alive. and that is why we need to launch the conference on the future of europe as soon as possible and to have a debate, an honest debate with our citizens and voters, to further mobilise them in relation to the next elections, but also in relation to why we have the european project here. the european project is here for the people. the pandemic is showing us the benefits of the european project, the added value of the recovery fund, and the debate on the health union. all of this needs to be on the agenda of the conference on the future of europe to further mobilise voters and citizens across the european union in the context of the next european elections. and we need to go into that conference with an open mind and an open mind, not with pre-written election rules. the union is a union of citizens, the union is a union of states and we need to maintain a balance in these principles also in future elections, we need to think about elections to the european parliament in such a way as to preserve the principle of one level of mep. yes, let's strengthen access to elections across the european union for all voters, but let's not create different classes and different categories in the next elections. this is my note on the transnational lists.
for the ecr group. madam president, i shall be dealing mainly with the area of the european union. tell me who in central europe has not used soros as a non-eu conspiracy, raise your hand. hungarian prime minister orbán or slovak ex-prime minister fico, as well as other politicians in the very heart of the european union, create such a hostile climate towards journalists as third world countries, and they themselves often spread hoaxes. studies show that disinformation websites in the european union generate more than eur 70 million in advertising revenue each year. more and more people trust them because member states are doing very little to improve media literacy. we often criticize the situation in belarus, turkey and hong kong, and yet we ourselves have a big problem with protecting investigative journalists. the evidence is the murders of slovak jan kuciak and daphne galizia. despite the contribution of journalists to society, we fail to protect them effectively, they face frequent physical threats and hate speech, and they are, above all, women journalists who are often vulgarly insulted by respectable politicians. we need to protect journalists effectively. the european commission should explicitly include media freedom and the protection of journalists in the rule of law monitoring report.
madam president, there is a direct correlation between a free society and the ability of journalists to do their jobs freely. the work of journalists is important because they do it for the people, not for the politicians. journalists are an organic part of the balance of power in and around the country, and supporting honest journalism is especially important in these challenging times of pandemic. in an age of increasing hoaxes and disinformation, we must support independent journalists and together in europe. in the past years, we have witnessed several crimes against journalists, even the most egregious, such as the murder of a journalist. in the union, we have experienced a great shock at the murder of jan kuciak or daphne caruana galizia. it is extremely important what happens in such tragic moments, and how democratic and free societies respond, what are the demands on state institutions. as we see in the case of the murder of jan kuciak, it is really important in the case of crimes to investigate not only the perpetrators but also the orderers and the connection to state power. the work of journalists is in many ways a reflection of the political regimes in which these journalists work. journalists do not do their work in a vacuum, the media must be free. it is therefore important that all crimes against journalists be investigated, from the most serious, such as murder, to the more trivial, such as blackmail or intimidation. we also ask this of countries on the european path, which are joining or negotiating to join the european union. the more we make it clear within the european union that we punish crimes against journalists, the clearer the signal we send to our partners in the european neighbourhood and the western balkans that journalists need protection and justice in the exercise of their profession.
madam president, in recent years we have seen the rules of international trade come into question. it is a warning sign that communist china, which is now formalizing a trade agreement among 15 countries, is showing an interest in setting standards for international trade. i therefore hope that in december we will be able to adjust trade relations between the eu and the uk by a joint agreement. i would like the council to waste no time and to resume the eu-us trade negotiations with the new us administration. a comprehensive transatlantic agreement will create the strongest trading bloc in the world, bringing much-needed growth and jobs to the european union as well.
madam president, a year ago this house voted a firm resolution denouncing algeria’s repeated violations of human rights. after a year, not much has changed. algeria continues prosecutions of journalists and political opponents. ultimately, khaled drareni was sentenced to two years in jail for his coverage of algeria’s anti-governmental protests. the people of algeria are pacifically demonstrating their desire for more democracy and liberty like the people of belarus that we multiple times discuss in this chamber. as a former journalist, i strongly condemn the ongoing threats against journalists, as well as the impunity for crimes against journalists in every corner of the world. unfortunately, even europe is not immune to this practice under the various pretexts in some corners of the eu itself. journalists are threatened and freedom of expression is not respected. it is time to deal with this issue properly and not only with a statement. and we have to evaluate more seriously the situation everywhere.
mr president, raman bandarenka’s death is the latest breaking point in months of mass protests against lukashenko. the belarusian authorities continue to attack those who peacefully demonstrate in the streets of the cities for their freedom. the personal sanctions that the eu has imposed on several belarussian officials are not resulting in any influence on the political process in the country. the time has arrived for the eu to mobilise any possible economic and political instrument. we can’t leave the people of belarus alone and the eu must set up a mechanism that assists victims of state repression, including financial aid to strikers and also visa regime for all belarusians. finally, it’s important to stress that we are not here to tell the belarusian people which path they should follow. it’s up to them to decide their own future whether they want to have deeper eu integration or to stay in close relations with the russians. we have to respect the choice made by people of belarus, and if the choice is to integrate belarus to the eu, i will be only very, very happy. what we are doing now is that we urge the stop of violence. belarus deserves better. žyvie, belaruś.
madam president, the rule of law agreement is good news for the union, as it has managed to avoid a political crisis in difficult times. however, the budget has long lacked the value for money as a condition for drawing on european funds. the agreement almost failed on the condition that the rule of law be respected, but there has been no heated debate in the council or in parliament about whether european money is being used efficiently by the member states. i therefore call on the commission to develop more precise impact clauses and to use better quality result indicators. only with relevant assessments and data will we be able to minimise the waste of taxpayers' resources and allocate funds to programmes with the highest added value. enjoy the rest of your evening in bratislava.
mr president, the 1.24 million small and mediumsized enterprises form the basis of the european union's economy. before the pandemic, smes generated more than half of the european union's gdp and employed around 100 million people. the economic crisis triggered by the pandemic has brought a significant number of smes, including micro-enterprises, to the brink of bankruptcy, including in the slovak republic. they must therefore be given due consideration in supporting and drawing on financial resources. the most important source, or the one that is practised for smes in the european union, is traditional bank loans, which is however unacceptable or not acceptable for start-up smes and start-up companies in general. therefore, priority should be given to grants. tax breaks are not the best solution either. the european commission needs to urge national governments to make the protection of jobs and the survival of smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups a top political priority. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's digital economy, in particular through the european digital agenda, the european digital agenda and the european digital agenda. and i also wish you a happy and merry christmas as miroslav radačovský, the slovak patriot.
mr president, we all hope that the covid crisis will be over soon, but the economic and social consequences of this pandemic will be reality for the upcoming years. it is high time to prove what we in this house have expressed millions of times, that smes are the backbone of our economy, providing about 70% of jobs in the eu. we need to safeguard those millions of jobs, preventing increasing unemployment and the deepening of social inequalities. now more than ever we have to transform words into action. this strategy aims to support 25 million smes in europe, their survival and their post-covid recovery. it is essential to strengthen their resilience and enable a successful green and digital transformation. not only do we need to reduce administrative burdens and simplify procedures, but we also need to fight to strengthen workers’ rights. i hope our efforts and concrete steps will help them bring our economy back on track and leave no one behind.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, today we are discussing what we can do in order to protect our businesses, our companies and the member states against unilateral sanctions introduced by third countries. first we have to ensure that our companies in general can do their business everywhere in the world where they want, if they are acting in line with international law and the national legislation of the country concerned. but let me stress that the extraterritorial effects of a third country’s law are clearly contrary to international law. they have a very serious impact on our trade operators. the sanctions have a distortion effect on competition as a whole. and let me also stress that our companies are especially affected by the extra-territorial sanctions imposed by the united states, our nato ally. the recent american economic sanctions against russia, iran and cuba especially the extraterritorial effects in particular should be responded to from our side. we need an efficient instrument to counteract these illegal sanctions. that’s why i welcome your intention to propose new legislation in this respect in one year, but it would be very helpful if the commission were to start, already now, a consideration of how to increase the efficiency of the existing instruments.
mr president, in the eu, more than 1 million barriers are being erected that literally cut our rivers and streams, prevent fish from reaching their spawning grounds and wintering grounds, change the flow of water, prevent rivers from feeding their watercourses. the migratory fish species in europe have literally collapsed. since 1970, their population has declined by an alarming 93 percent. there are no such things as drafting salmon, herons, and sturgeons. after the dinosaurs survived, they were wiped out by our concrete. today, there are over 21 000 hydroelectric power stations operating in the eu, and we are still planning to build over 8 000. in slovakia, the supreme court recently halted the construction of a small hydroelectric power plant in žiara nad hronom. the court reasoned that the interest in protecting and maintaining a healthy environment clearly takes precedence over the interest in building a small hydroelectric power station. we should understand that the protection and maintenance of living rivers should be a top priority across the european union and our water policies. that is why i am pleased and hopeful about the target of 25 000 km of free-flowing rivers by 2030 as part of the biodiversity strategy. that goal is undermined if we simultaneously fund the construction of thousands of additional barriers. we can't have both, and it's pointless to unleash the rivers that are bound and at the same time to chain the power plants to those that have remained free. we urgently need to improve the implementation of the water framework directive, because water is not just about drinking and electricity. water is first and foremost about life.
madam president, they say water is the oil of the future. slovakia is proud to be, so to speak, kuwait's water. yet we treat it as if it doesn't matter. not just in slovakia, but across europe. the water framework directive is 20 years old today and we have been waiting for 20 years for the member states, including slovakia, to start applying it properly. on the one hand, we talk about protecting water, but on the other hand, we endanger it all too often. and it's not just water. we are endangering countless species of plants, animals, and ourselves. what's the problem? we underestimate the effects of climate change. we're trapping water in concrete, including in natura 2000 sites. we're making it into a soup of microplastics filled with dangerous chemicals like pfas, which we often don't even measure. there's less of it, and there's less life in it. this sad state of affairs is not because we have bad laws. the water framework directive is still up to date and does not need to be amended. our governments don't really enforce it. precautionary measures paid by the polluter are often ignored and replaced by exceptions for polluting. that's why i'd like very much if the europeans could get under... (speaker exceeds time limit)
madam president, we need a coherent approach towards eastern partnership countries that violate joint commitments. we all know that these things are not going well. let me mention only the situation in nagorno-karabakh, about which we have to very concerned. the ceasefire brokered by the russians in november sent a positive signal, but lasting peace, including agreement on the status of the region, still needs to be negotiated. both sides in the conflict recently accused each other of ceasefire violations, but there are also many human rights violations. for example, you need only take the mistreatment of the armenian troops captured during the conflict. we have to call for the immediate release of all the detainees. i have to say that i’m afraid that it’s not enough for the european union only to follow the situation and to support the minsk group. the eu must take the responsibility and contribute more actively to long—term conflict settlement in the eastern neighbourhood. the role of turkey and its support of one of the sides in the conflict creates a serious threat that may ultimately be counterproductive to long-term peace in the region.
author. – mr president, i have a few questions for the council and also for the commission, for commissioner schmit and for mr roth. first, the covid-19 crisis has accelerated the need to improve digital training solutions and ensure equal access to digital skills, tools and technologies for learners, teachers and trainers. through what measures and with which financial and non—financial means, will the member states promote digital upgrading and distance learning in vocational education and training (vet), while ensuring accessibility and acquisition of the necessary skills for all? how does the commission intend to support the member states in this, and how can this be coordinated and monitored together with the member states? how will the member states ensure equal access to the internet and to digital schools and all the digital tools in all schools? the council recommendation provided for the number of quantitative objectives to be achieved by 2025. what measures will the member states take to meet the objectives and how can the quality framework for apprenticeship and the erasmus programme help to achieve them? how will the commission support the member states in achieving these objectives? how will the commission monitor progress in achieving these aims and how will it relay this information to both parliament and the council? how will the member states and the commission improve the tracking of vet graduates? there is a lack of coherence and discrepancy between the vet sector and the general education system, with vet often being considered as the less preferred option, despite the constant demand for more vocational professionals. what are the member states and the commission doing to boost the attractiveness of vet, and to ensure coherence and synergy between the two? what are the member states doing at national level to improve the communication on vet, and what is the commission planning at eu level to improve the communication on vet? what measures are the member states taking to bring vet dropouts back into the system? what measures will the member states and the commission take to ensure that vet programmes are of high quality, are inclusive and offer equal opportunities to all, in particular to vulnerable groups and people living in rural or remote areas? what actions will the member states and the commission take to make quality and inclusive vet a right for all learners, as enshrined in the european pillar of social rights? how will the member states and the commission ensure that apprenticeships are of high quality and are diversified and tailor-made? what the member states do to ensure a fair remuneration for apprenticeships and access to social protection? does the commission intend to review the european framework for quality and effective apprenticeship?
in writing. it is good that before christmas we are going to approve not only the seven-year eu budget but also the recovery fund. this is an unprecedented amount that eu member states have ever been able to use to overcome a crisis and develop themselves. the seven-year budget also allows slovakia to continue building and renewing infrastructure, whether it be the construction of motorways, the supply of sewerage and the insulation of buildings, but also investing in new technologies, science and research. the slovak authorities have also provided the slovak authorities with information on the implementation of the restructuring plan. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. all these measures should aim to improve the quality of life of our citizens and strengthen the resilience of our industry and energy. now it's up to the slovak government to use the money effectively. i also think it is reasonable to link the use of european money with respect for the rule of law and democracy, under conditions agreed by european leaders. european funds, which come from the taxes of our citizens, cannot be misused to corrupt or undermine democratic principles, but all states must be treated equally and fairly.
