in writing. equal pay for equal work, including the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex, is a legally binding principle defined in article 157 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is also part of the european pillar of social rights, on which all the key eu institutions agree. despite many commitments, the eu is not making progress in this area, having managed to reduce the gender pay gap by only 0.6% in recent years. the differences are still, on average, 16%, to the detriment of women, and in individual member states (both the older western and the newer eastern ones) even more than 20%. the causes of these differences are multifaceted, ranging from differences in sectors in which women and men are typically employed, to related occupational and educational stereotypes, to unequal work-life balance burdens, to direct discrimination by employers. we need a new eu gender equality strategy and a plan for its implementation. at the same time, it is necessary to look at this problem in a broader perspective, since without structural changes in the european economy and changes in the relationship between countries and societies in the valuation of individual forms of work and the importance of social inclusion, it is not possible to effectively address wage inequalities. gender equality and the principle of ensuring equal pay for equal work should also be integrated into the european semester.
mr. chairman, please. homelessness is certainly considered to be the most overlooked and growing form of human rights violation. this is above all the right to a decent standard of living, which always includes the right to housing. sometimes it even takes matters to the point where the lives and personal safety of individuals are threatened. the member states of the european union and the european union itself are, of course, obliged by the principle of subsidiarity to provide for measures to reduce and eliminate homelessness. they are also bound by other human rights instruments and by the european pillar of social rights itself. the fact that the numbers are increasing and that only finland has so far managed to avoid it, makes it imperative that we help or help in this programme or use this 'housing first' programme, because it allows social inclusion and prevents other forms. but it is certainly urgent to work for decent housing for all.
the honorable chairman. the prime minister, mr plenkovic, and my dear andrei. i have experience of the presidency and i know what it is like to have a new member state take over the presidency, so of course i wish you all the best on this journey. you would highlight a developing europe among your priorities. balanced development is important, cohesion funds are important, not just for those countries that receive these funds, but for all the member states. if all the member states strengthen their competitiveness, we will of course be stronger than the union. i would also like to touch on demography and its challenges, which are more important and stronger in the eastern part of our european union at the moment. so i want more emphasis on the problem of rescuing the older population in relation, of course, to low fertility and in relation to the departure of young people abroad. since this area is run by your commissioner, mrs dubravka šuica, i'm sure you'll be very active here. good luck with that.
madam president, dear friend prime minister of croatia, i would like to sincerely wish you every success. i am convinced that, knowing your skills and potential, you can strengthen the european union and create a more upgraded image for european citizens. but to make this possible, we need a strong economy and we need a strong multiannual budgetary framework, with increased contributions from the member states. strong defense and security are required. i agree with you that there can be no european union without securing our borders and without strict adherence to principles and values. but the european union cannot become an observer in libya or syria, and it cannot allow countries like turkey to destabilise the region and threaten eu member states like cyprus and greece. i fully agree with the president of the european commission that where there is unity, there is real freedom. i would add that where there is solidarity, there is unity, there is freedom. at this moment, madam president, two european union member states, cyprus and greece, are asking you in practical terms for your solidarity with a terrorist country like turkey, which is creating instability in the region.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president plenković, mr president von der leyen, the world around us is being shaken by wars and tensions, and europe often seems to be motionless and irrelevant on the international scene. the courage to make clear and decisive choices is lacking, but i am convinced that having a woman president like ursula von der leyen can help to bring about a major change of pace. first of all, two choices, in my view, are decisive: the commission's proposal for a multiannual financial framework must be adapted to the challenges and the finnish presidency's proposal falls far short of what is needed and would not allow the european union's work programme to be implemented, for which we voted in favour. parliament will not be able to give its consent to the multiannual financial framework without a parallel agreement on the reform of the union's own resources system. the new green deal will have to bring about not only an ecological revolution, but also a social and economic one, a grand development plan that creates sustainable growth without leaving anyone behind. but i ask the croatian presidency to insist on the need for ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, mr president of the croatian government, croatia has shown throughout history that it is not afraid of a challenge and the presidency of croatia is an opportunity to show responsibility, above all for its actions towards citizens. that is why we want a europe that develops with a clear message that small and large, rich and poor must have equal opportunities. i am sure that croatia will be a strong advocate for the fair distribution of budgetary resources in the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, but also, and importantly, to restore citizens' trust in the old continent, a europe that must be corrective and strong for new challenges. for all those who express doubts about my homeland, and do not know it at all, do not know the opportunities in it, do not know how economically successful croatia is, a strong message: if you ask yourself are we ready for these challenges, are we ready for them? i'm telling you, croatia will show that we are!
madam president, prime minister, please. i have every confidence that the croatian presidency will bring the debate on the rule of law, which has been dragging on for years, to a reasonable conclusion. i hope that the double standards and the squeezing out of certain member states will be brought to an end. please do everything you can to ensure that this value is no longer undermined, that is, that the rule of law is no longer the object of political games. i also ask that all member states be given equal weight when examining how fundamental rights and freedoms are being respected in different parts of the union. end accountability to the eu institutions or to each other for all domestic political history that is otherwise unrelated to or outside the eu's policy. may they have the wisdom not to want to play referee. and today we find that it is often the most vocal and most dedicated supporters of the rule of law... (the president shall take the floor)
the honorable chairman. mr plenković, thank you for presenting the priorities of the croatian presidency. you're taking it at a really colorful time in a period of great change where, whether you like it or not, certain themes will be front and center. brexit, the budget, the future of europe, environmental legislation, and other topics that you have chosen, among which i particularly welcome the tackling of the problems of demographic change, the enlargement of the union to the western balkans region and also respect for the union's core values, such as the rule of law. your country, croatia, and my country, slovenia, are neighbours, and i believe that we will cooperate well in this spirit, but that is also why, mr plenković, i am counting on you not to stick to words, but to actually respect the rule of law and to respect human rights and the rights of everyone in general, including migrants. good luck with that.
madam president, i would like to thank you. high representative! the security situation in iran and iraq is changing day by day, and it is now teetering between serious conflict and full-scale war. the relationship between the united states and iran is extremely serious, and the eu must play a clear role in de-escalating tensions and developing its own policy towards iran, in which we make it clear that we want to see a different future, a peaceful future, a future in which we stand up for democracy and human rights and in which we respect the nuclear agreement. last week, a plane was accidentally shot down, and 176 people died. it cannot be denied that the escalation of the conflict and the increase in tensions between the united states and iran are the root cause of this tragedy. seventeen of the people who died were swedish, including young people and children, and were connected with my country. i agree with the demands that we must demand full transparency in the investigation. the member states concerned must have that transparency. the relatives need to know exactly what happened, have the right to compensation, and know that we stand by them in the terrible grief that has befallen them.
madam president, i would like to say to mr borrell: i was a little bit surprised by your speech because you forgot some things: who first withdrew from the nuclear agreement? mr trump. who assassinated mr soleimani? mr trump. who is reinforcing, with the assassinations and these actions, the hardliners in tehran? mr trump. i have the pleasant privilege to come from a country with the only prime minister in the european union who supported openly the assassination, besides mr johnson and of course mr netanyahu. so what i want to say to you is: of course we have to pressure iran to respect the deal and to give democratic freedoms? but also we have to pressure and criticise the united states, otherwise mr trump is taking us for granted, mr borrell.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. four quick thoughts in this minute. the first is, what's the difference between the us and iran? what is iran? what does the nuclear deal mean for us today? and what can the european union do? the united states is an ancient democracy that works. iran is a totalitarian regime that has repeatedly committed human rights violations. i am therefore surprised that this is equated in this house by the populists on the left and the populists on the right. but iran is also a subject of international law, with which we have a treaty, the nuclear deal. the nuclear deal is important in preventing iran from developing nuclear weapons, and right now it provides a dispute settlement mechanism that we need to take advantage of. we must ensure that the european union does what the austrian foreign minister, alexander schallenberg, has proposed, namely to allow for a pendulum diplomacy between the united states and iran, because talking is better than shooting. and vienna is offering itself as a venue for negotiations. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
i have to say, madam president, the main cause of the present situation in the middle east is the dictatorship of the ayatollahs. qods commander soleimani has planned and carried out many terrorist attacks. he was responsible for the violent repression of the protests of brave iranians who took to the streets last year for freedom and democracy, and for better social and economic policies. the iranian regime is homophobic and anti-semitic. the destruction of the state of israel is his explicit goal. we must, as europeans, oppose this with determination. the killing of soleimani is questionable under international law and has increased the danger of war. the only way to secure peace is to respect international law. now is the time for diplomacy. the nuclear deal must be saved. the trump administration needs to resolve conflicts multilaterally. we stand with the demonstrators who are risking their lives for a secular iran and for democracy and human rights.
madam president, during the first week of the new year we all experienced an unexpected chain of events that strongly increased tensions in the middle east and far beyond with around 3 000 soldiers from 19 european member states deployed in iraq. the events also affect the security of the european union directly. the situation in iraq and in iran is highly worrisome and all peaceful de—escalation efforts should be welcomed. therefore, i call upon all parties involved to show restraint and make space for dialogue. next to encouraging and assisting our partners to open diplomatic channels, it is important for the european union to protect the joint comprehensive plan of action and to convince iran that it is also in their benefit to adhere to this agreement. also in our relations with iraq we should remain stable and productive. after having heavily suffered under the destructive passage of isis, the country is being reconstructed. last year i was there with the committee on foreign affairs in baghdad and it’s really making me feel sad to see how all the fragile peace is gone. we should help through diplomatic channels and i call upon you, high representative, to make the utmost effort and to show the european union as a mediator in this really worrisome situation.
the honorable chairman. the escalation between iran and the us could threaten not only regional stability, but global stability as well. whatever the likely or unlikely crisis scenarios, the european union's stealth will be in the spotlight. the european union must urgently step up its role in resolving the crisis and in preserving the nuclear agreement. whatever the plot is, it's gonna affect us. with the unlikely further escalation, a significant part of the european union will be within range of iranian missile systems. at the same time, we will face an increased flow of refugees or migration at the external borders. but even if tensions ease, especially if direct or indirect talks between the us and iran are to take place, the european union must play an appropriate role. any deal will have implications for the european union's energy security, as both the us and iran want to become major suppliers of natural gas. this will play a key role in achieving our strategic goal of becoming a zero-carbon society by 2050. the european union must therefore become a decisive player in shaping solutions to this crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr high representative, colleagues, once again no one in this room is calling things by their real names. there is no way that representatives in this room who are interested in the topic of "libya" do not know that the shameful deal between so-called prime minister sarraj and turkish president erdogan involves not only the transfer of turkish troops to libya, involves not only the division of territorial waters in the mediterranean to the detriment of cyprus, to the detriment of the state of israel, if you will, and to the detriment of greece. nobody's telling the simple truth, which is that right now, sarag and erdogan are moving islamists from syria to libya together. the islamic state fighters -- the ones who were fighting a bloody civil war in syria, the ones who were beheading people, they're moving into libya. libya under sarag and erdogan is becoming a new stronghold of the islamic state. we cannot remain silent on this subject, commissioner, you cannot remain silent on this subject, it is your duty and you must say so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all looking forward to the berlin summit and hope that it will bring positive results. i'm not very optimistic. unfortunately, europe was not a reality at this stage. the european union has not existed, the various countries of the union have been uninfluential, they have not given the necessary support to the high representative, there has been no political initiative of any kind except for the kind of velleitarianism. the results are: russia and turkey are the guarantors of the situation, not only in libya but in the entire mediterranean, with increasingly serious risks: we are thinking of a possible terrorist offensive, we are thinking of immigration, until the problem in libya is solved. then there's the big energy issue. the turkey-libya deal, which has cut off the rest of europe, is not going in the right direction. there is another pipeline in the making, the eastmed, which should connect israel, cyprus, crete, greece and italy, and which should ensure energy self-sufficiency. i believe that from this point of view europe must also make a commitment to safeguard the energy self-sufficiency of all the countries of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are following developments very closely, as the high representative/vice-president has said with great honesty, hour by hour, and it is now, at the last minute, that we are hearing that haftar has decided to attend the berlin conference on sunday. we are following this with great concern and tension and we sometimes feel the danger of our own uselessness and ineffectiveness. in these cases the only opportunity, the only chance we have is the political resource: not giving up on politics, having a clear vision of our objectives strengthening diplomatic, political and institutional action; ensure the cessation of hostilities and the ceasefire; to allow the berlin conference, if possible; to put forward a proposal for aid for the many libyan citizens, especially the many libyan citizens, especially the children involved and victims of the ongoing war; to create the political and institutional conditions to strengthen the unity, integrity and full sovereignty of libya; to put in place a deterrent force. i think that's the call we should be working on: the european union must be a deterrent force to help dialogue and peace succeed, because we cannot do this by diplomacy alone unless we set up a european deterrent force and leave the field to other forces and other institutional and political forces. i think that this should be our task in these difficult times, knowing that we play a crucial role in the future of europe. the european union is not going to be able to do this, and we are not going to be able to do it. i think that is the job we should be doing and we should be encouraging high representative/vice-president borrell to do this fully, because we are really playing a decisive game of the new commission and the new parliament for the whole term.
- the chairman. libya, the bad conscience of the european union member states that actively participated in the military intervention against the gaddafi regime, is becoming a european headache. libya, which has become the centre of the inhuman and dirty human trafficking linked to illegal migration across the dangerous mediterranean route, where profits are made only by organized criminal groups and by colorful and diverse militias, is approaching a new round of hell. turkey, which is still officially a candidate for membership of the european union, has decided to embark on a risky military adventure that is contrary to our strategic interests both in the mediterranean and in libya. with turkish intervention and active russian involvement in the bloody civil war, given the extensive military maneuvers of neighboring egypt, it could extend beyond the libyan borders and become a regional warfare hotspot on the threshold of the eu. the eu must therefore, through determined political and economic engagement, prevent a deepening of the war in libya, and demand from turkey and russia the withdrawal of all regular and irregular forces, and force the warring parties in libya to implement a real ceasefire and start a political process that will bring peace and stability to the country and the region.
in writing. it is very important that the european parliament should today give its opinion, in a determined and timely manner, and through a resolution reached by consensus in a comprehensive way, on the objectives and methodologies to be adopted at the conference on the future of europe. this conference, while promoted by the european parliament, the commission and the council, and involving the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee, must mobilise governments and national and regional parliaments, civil society organisations across the european union and, in particular, citizens, reinforcing their sense of belonging to the european project and giving them a voice, not only to evaluate the decisions of representative democratic bodies but also to propose and demand priorities, measures and concrete solutions. after many debates and reflections which failed to generate the necessary reform momentum in the european union, the conference which is proposed to be launched on 9 may and to be held until 2022 must be accompanied by the implementation of strong convergence and cohesion policies, translated into the european green deal, the multiannual financial framework and a euro area architecture that strengthens the union's own resources and its position in an increasingly competitive world.
ladies and gentlemen, we are honoured to have his majesty king abdullah ii of jordan in the chamber today, who is returning to the european parliament after having been a guest here a few years ago. it's a great honor for us.
king of the hashemite kingdom of jordan. – bismillah ar—rahman ar—rahim. mr president, honourable members, your excellencies, my friends, thank you all. it is an honour to speak before the european parliament once again. as i look around this historic chamber, i see it holds many hundreds of people. but in truth, there are with us today millions more, from different countries, histories, and perspectives. so we who are gathered here have two things in common. first is our responsibility to these millions – the people who have entrusted us with their hopes and fears. and second, we are all very fortunate, for a life spent in the service of others is a life fully lived – but only if we live up to the expectations of the millions of people with us in this hall today. if we falter, the most vulnerable pay the highest price – the young men and women who look to their future and see nothing; bewildered refugee mothers, clutching their children, with no place to call home; or anxious fathers who cannot find jobs to provide for their loved ones. and the many who feel side-lined, their identity under threat. the defining feature of the past decade has been people finding their voices. millions across the world have poured onto the streets, marched, occupied, sat down, sat in, tweeted, podcast, hashtagged what they want, loud and clear. and they all want the same thing: a fair chance, a fighting chance. dear friends, people around the world have voiced their desired destination but are looking to us to guide them along the path; looking to us to foresee and prepare for the obstacles ahead. this calls for several ‘what if?’ questions. and these questions are not merely a whimsical or a theoretical exercise – especially in my region, where worst-case scenarios don’t lie comfortably within the realm of the hypothetical but often wander too closely to the borders of our reality. furthermore, what happens in the middle east has a way of making itself felt everywhere around the world. so let me start with our region’s deepest wound. what if the world gives up on the two-state solution of the palestinian-israeli conflict? seventy-plus years of conflict have played havoc with hopes for justice. today, one-staters are actively seeking to impose an unthinkable solution on the region and the world: one state, propped up by structural inequalities, with palestinians as second-class subjects; one state turning its back on its neighbourhood, perpetuating divisions among peoples and faiths worldwide. five years ago, i stood in this chamber and spoke of the dangers of failing to move forward with peace, and today, i must say frankly that the dangers have grown: violence continues; settlement-building continues; disregard for international law continues. i’ve said it countless times and in countless ways, but i will say it again and again: a more peaceful world is not possible without a stable middle east. and a stable middle east is not possible without peace between palestinians and the israelis. (applause)what if jerusalem, a city that is close to my heart personally and of great historical significance to my family, remains disputed? can we afford to rob christians and muslims alike of the spirituality, peace and coexistence that this city symbolises, and instead allow it to descend into political conflict? now fast forward to the most recent standoff between the united states and iran. what if, next time, neither side steps away from the brink, dragging us all towards untold chaos? an all-out war jeopardises the stability of the entire region. what’s more, it risks massive disruptions of the entire global economy, including energy markets, but threatens a resurgence of terrorism across the world. and i ask you another ‘what if?’: what if iraq fails to realise the potential and aspirations of its people and slips back into an erratic, 17-year cycle of recovery and relapse – or worse yet, conflict? iraq is home to 12 per cent of the world’s proven oil reserves. but more importantly, it is home to over 40 million people, who have suffered through four decades of war, crippling sanctions, occupation, sectarian conflict, and the terror of isis. today their future rests on a fragile peace. and i, for one, will not abandon our brothers and sisters there. now what if syria remains hostage to global rivalries and spirals back into civil conflict? what if we see a re-emergence of isis and syria becomes a staging-ground for attacks against the rest of the world? syria may be out of the headlines, with its suffering out of sight and out of mind, but the crisis is far from over. over the past nine months, more than half a million people have been displaced, many of them already refugees. do any of us in this hall want to see another syrian refugee crisis unfold, with all its horror and heartbreak? or another innocent child washed up upon your shores? i know i speak for everyone here when i say: absolutely not. and let me ask you: what if libya collapses into an all-out war, and ultimately, a failed state? what if libya is the new syria, just much closer to the continent you all call home? and let me say again: what if arab governments fail to create the more than 60 million jobs our youth will need in the coming decade? and if we fail, wouldn’t we in fact be creating a perfect setting for extremist groups? we make their job of recruitment easier if we leave behind a trail of vulnerability and hopelessness. can we afford to let the region’s young people live without hope? my friends, let this reflection upon ‘what if?’ scenarios be a productive exercise, one that can pre-empt countless tragedies and safeguard our people along their journey. my faith in god reinforces my optimism and my belief in the strength and resilience of humanity. there is always a better and much more united version of us around every corner. the holy qur’an teaches us that ‘those who endure in patience and put their trust in their lord’ will enjoy the greatest rewards. patience is hard in a world that never seems to slow down, where people make split-second decisions and expect instantaneous results. leadership, however, demands the very opposite: reflection, wisdom and the long view. more than ever, we need patient politics. because we all have a responsibility to safeguard our people’s long-term interests and welfare; to react to rapidly unfolding events with measured responses, not knee-jerk reactions. because politics is not a game where the fastest win. sometimes, the faster we go, the farther away we end up from the finish line. my father, the late king hussein, taught me that peace-making is always the harder – but the higher – path. and a tough road is best walked with our friends: friends like you and the people of europe, so that together we can reach the future that both our peoples aspire to and that they and our whole world deserve. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
we thank the king of jordan, a privileged interlocutor of the european union and a great friend of the european parliament. we have heard his words, his passion to achieve peace through confrontation and dialogue. we have a lot of work to do together and i think the beginning of this year shows even more the need for the work we have to do together. (the sitting was suspended at 12.20 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, i should have interrupted you. no justification is allowed. (parliament decided not to put the oral amendment to the vote) the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
madam president, the european parliament's position on the green deal is very important. i expected him to be ambitious and rational at the same time. unfortunately, it's more ambitious than rational, which is why i had to abstain in the final vote. i focused on two topics, and that's agriculture. it is important for sustainable agriculture to recognise that it can only be achieved by engaging farmers to meet the objectives of the green deal. i appreciate that this rhetoric doesn't blame farmers for the state of our environment, but instead provides new opportunities for farmers to fight climate change. in this respect, the proposal is therefore acceptable. the vote on the amendment concerning nuclear energy was unacceptable to me. fortunately, this report also recognises subsidiarity and therefore the possibility of an energy mix for the member states. but the amendment that recognizes nuclear power as important to combating climate change was not passed, and that's why i ultimately abstained.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the european green deal because it accurately reflects the european parliament's position. it is a balanced proposal to achieve climate neutrality, protect the environment and achieve a healthy, quality life within the planet's means. the proposal thus strikes a balance between the desired objectives of tackling climate change, a just transition to green energy and economic opportunities. it is essential to ensure cooperation between all stakeholders, i.e. citizens, regions, local communities, the professional community, civil society and the economy. the resolution links the achievement of a climate-neutral society to the renewal of the industrial and sme strategy. it underlines the leading role of the european union and calls for active promotion by the rest of the world. we must see the green deal as both a necessity and an economic opportunity, and thereby inspire other polluting countries to prevent or at least mitigate the devastating effects of climate change in the future.
madam president, i voted in favour of the european green deal because it is necessary, even if it lacks a clearly visible social dimension and remains within an unsustainable and unchanged economic mindset. i would point out that without the appropriate solidarity and social dimension of the european green deal, both the eu, that is the european union, and social democracy will lose the support of the people. because if it benefits only a few and the costs are shared by all, it is clear that there will be a rebellion of people who are very difficult to convince. but there is still time to rectify this with a specific resolution on the social dimension of the european green deal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're in the middle of the sixth major extinction of a species, this time caused by humans. we're threatening a million species, and i think now is the time to do something, and the un goals are really good. but we must also set ourselves goals in europe, for example in the common agricultural policy. the intensive nature of agriculture in europe also contributes to the extinction of species. we need to set very clear targets that we reduce pesticides, but also that we reduce the increased nitrogen intake. we are also responsible for importing 20 million hectares of soya beans and thus promoting industrial agriculture in europe. we must also change something fundamentally. we should not be judged now, 30% of protected areas are good and 70% can be dirty. no, we must also extend agriculture and forestry as a whole. and let me make one more point: we have filed a motion that we need a moratorium on gene drives. this killer gene technology, we really don't need it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to share some of the facts with you. in 40 years, half the coral reefs have disappeared. in 30 years, half the forests have been cut down. a million, yes, a million species will disappear in the next ten years. the reasons are well known: the destruction of habitats, often man-made, the over-exploitation of natural resources, climate change and pollution. we are all responsible for our bad habits, but we are also responsible for this disaster here, colleagues in the european parliament, with some of our decisions, such as the trade agreements with the end of the world, which are guided more by immediate profit than by the preservation of the environment and our ecosystem. if we humans continue to behave as if we are the only species on earth, we will end up being the last species before a well-deserved extinction. it is high time we understood that we are part of a whole and that if we do not preserve biodiversity, we will not survive. it's as simple as that.
mr. chairman, i'm sorry to hear that. the maintenance of life on earth depends on ecosystems, and ecosystems depend on the maintenance of biodiversity among living organisms. for years, we've faced the threat of extinction of millions of species, from over-exploitation of agricultural land, pesticides, pollution. and the result? the earth is becoming biologically and genetically impoverished. we often forget that biodiversity is the foundation of our economy, our livelihoods, our health, our food security and, ultimately, our quality of life. the latest assessments of the impact of the eu biodiversity strategy so far are not very promising. the extinction rate of endangered species continues to rise. it is time to change that and this resolution is a good basis on which the commission can develop a new, successful strategy. let's show the world that it is possible to protect and sustain nature while building safe, inclusive and sustainable societies.
mr president, commissioner, members of the council. the reports on how the coronavirus is spreading are certainly worrying. what i would like to stress is that this shows once again how we must act in a deliberate and coordinated way. so the added value of the european union is in the coordination and cooperation of the member states. i have therefore put an urgent question to the council, but this is not intended to create an emergency, panic or spread intolerance, but above all to call for concerted action. i welcome the proactive role of the european commission, also at the operational level, both in the field of health and crisis management, and the fact that we have mechanisms that can be relied on, i.e. civil protection, which are developed, they still need to be adequately supported materially to respond appropriately to the situation before the willingness of the countries to ... (the chairman turned off the microphone. )
in writing. transport connectivity and mobility in the eu are undoubtedly the fundamental levers for the economic development of the member states. however, given that the transport sector is responsible for almost 30% of all co2 emissions in the eu, with road transport accounting for 72%, and given the eu's ambition to achieve a zero-carbon future, future eu action in the area of transport and mobility will be essential. in this context, i would particularly stress the need for the eu to work to strengthen the development of quality public transport (urban, inter-city and international), which should be affordable and physically accessible to all eu citizens, especially those with disabilities and those living in more peripheral areas. the solution is not just structural, as the fact is that if we are serious about achieving climate goals, we will also be forced to radically adjust our behavioural patterns and habits regarding the frequency of car use. i therefore particularly welcome the proposal to include the concept of sustainability in the title of the strategy, as also provided for in the european parliament's resolution on the green deal. on this basis, i expect the new strategy to position the social and environmental dimension of the development of mobility and transport in such a way that the latter are not primarily subordinated to economic ambitions, but are adapted to people and the environment.
madam chairman! thank you very much. it was very emotional in this building today, we were talking about the past, about what went wrong a few decades ago -- i'm talking about auschwitz -- and about what went wrong a few years ago -- i'm talking about the united kingdom, which is really leaving us on friday. a lot of things went wrong, and we have a lot to learn from that past. why would you do that? because of the future, because there are still many things wrong, and i dare not predict what will happen with this much-vaunted conference on the future of europe. but i hope we all understand that people are rightly disappointed and that we must give them the opportunity to participate, which is what is most important here: participation by citizens. even if we do less, let us do it as it should be done, not doing something halfway or doing nothing at all in the end. fellow citizens, abraham lincoln once said, and i'll end with this. i'll say it in the original: "the best way to predict our future is to create it". thank you.
(start of speech off mic) […] voted the brexit deal and we had our final say. ‘is it the final curtain, not yet written? how did it happen? how did we come to this?’ we heard in so many languages. the fact is that many of us s&d members would have gladly voted against – no – along with our beloved labour friends. but this is not the end. there is still a negotiation ahead and it touches upon many issues of the committee i chair – fundamental rights, citizens’ rights, data protection, border management, asylum, security matters, judicial cooperation. but in order to do that, there are two lessons to be learned. first, we’ve got to stay together to deal with that negotiation – that’s a fact – but also we’ve got to strike back. we’ve got to fight fake news and disinformation better to keep our union together. we won’t be missing the noisy brexiteers but we will certainly be missing so much our beloved dear european british friends. thank you for having been here. thank you for your will to come back.
madam chairman! thank you very much. after three and a half years, after a long saga, a continuous political drama, it's now real. of course i am in favour of the uk remaining in the union, but i had to vote in favour because i am in favour of an orderly withdrawal rather than the chaotic no deal withdrawal that would have followed if we had not approved this document. but with the uk leaving, the saga is unfortunately not over. the transition period will be even more challenging and crucial for the future relationship. and tomorrow we will lose a very important member of our european family, that's a fact. and the fact is, we're gonna miss our partners, some of them, not all of them. but we must take the events that led to brexit as a clear signal, understand them in the light of the present time and the state of our democracies, and seek solutions that will prevent similar events in the future. i hope that we have learned from all this and that we will also be aware of the reforms needed to bring the union closer to its citizens and to stop the spread of disinformation and political manipulation within it.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the new methodology for enlargement, including the adoption of the new methodology for the enlargement of the european union. this compromise is important because the countries of potential candidates should not have to pay the price of our internal disagreements. what i find particularly valuable in this proposal is greater flexibility, especially when it comes to sanctions or even suspension of negotiations for those who stagnate or fall short of the criteria. accession to the european union is usually a long and transformative process. the countries that are going through this process face great challenges that we need to understand, but on the other hand we need to remain consistent in insisting that the criteria are met and that the same rules apply to all. only in this way can the eu maintain its credibility and remain a desirable destination for all non-integrated countries in europe.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner. commissioner, last week you presented the new methodology for enlargement, hoping to send a positive message to the candidate countries and hoping to appease the concerns of the member states. the reactions coming from both member states and from the western balkan countries are very positive, and your work will be crucial to prevent a repetition of the blocking of accession talks. i strongly welcome the two key concepts in the methodology: credibility and political steering. the western balkans need a credible accession perspective with appropriate european engagement based on the lessons learned. on the other side, it is up to the political leadership of the candidate countries to demonstrate their commitment to join the eu by enforcing fundamental political and economic reforms, assisted by the european union and inspired by our recommendations. as the co-rapporteur for the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa iii) and a directly elected representative of eu citizens, i expect in the future more involvement of the european parliament in the accession process, and the acknowledgment and implementation of parliament’s resolutions. these resolutions, adopted by the majority of this house, focus on the progress of the way forward for these countries. we are facilitators for the enlargement, and we are the strongest advocate of the western balkans within the eu institutions. therefore, we expect our resolutions to be heard, discussed and implemented.
madam president, the eu enlargement policy is one of the most empowering and successful policy instruments that we possess. if the proposed methodology will succeed to streamline the accession process, then it was worth approving. however, success is embedded not in a smart methodology, but in a strong political will. from the eu side, it is a clear will to enlarge our european family, from the aspirants – a commitment to fully fulfil the membership criteria. we must preserve the integrity and inclusiveness of the enlargement process. the same rules must apply to all candidates. moreover, the candidate countries should reach the membership league with their hard work and no major concessions. maintaining this understanding as well as mutual trust is a key for bringing neighbouring countries into our european family. this strategic approach has to be immune to political manipulations.
madam president, we have lost great britain and northern ireland, and that weakens europe. we should do all that we can not to lose the western balkans as well. the western balkans are not yet member states but anyway they are european states with a european identity. the new methodology for enlargement and accession was an extra homework, i would say, an extra homework for a small minority of member states in the council who had surprised all of us with the blockade of enlargement. of course the six countries have to do a lot. they have to help each other more, they have to fight corruption. but the negotiations with albania and northern macedonia have to start as soon as possible, even before the election in northern macedonia. elections in montenegro and serbia are running but serbia has to recognise kosovo as well as kosovo has to withdraw the tariffs against goods and services from serbia. we have to strengthen the european union against other powers in the world by enforced work on this enlargement. i thank you, commissioner, and commission president von der leyen for also quickly setting up this new methodology. ceterum censeo the united kingdom should become a member state again.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by praising the commission for the measures which have been taken to adjust our enlargement strategy. i think it is very good that you have listened to the concerns that were raised about the current admission strategy. it is absolutely crucial that more attention be paid to the fact that the applicant countries are actually complying with, or are working to strengthen, the rule of law. it has been shown that it is absolutely essential that it works, otherwise you cannot start the recording and you cannot be recorded. i also think it is important to say that it is a good thing that in principle there is a better possibility of suspending or actually stopping negotiations if it turns out that the candidate countries are not complying with the rules, and i think that is absolutely crucial. because with these changes it will also be easier to say yes to opening negotiations with north macedonia and albania.
madam president, the methodology proposal embodies all the weaknesses and strengths of the european compromise. it is thus a compromise that allows the european union to develop and strengthen further without hampering the enlargement process. it is a compromise that on the one hand strengthens the possibilities and creates the conditions for eu reform, if it is decided by the member states and if it is supported by citizens in the context of the conference on the future of europe. it is also a compromise that mitigates the fears of some member states about enlargement. at the same time, it sets out a framework for eu enlargement in the western balkans that provides more credibility and predictability for all involved in the process, both for eu citizens and for candidate countries and their nationals. this compromise sets the whole enlargement process in a qualitatively new framework, which will allow the effective and timely monitoring of each candidate's progress, rewarding progress and strengthening the negotiation process, while providing candidates with a predictable and clear framework for convergence and integration into the european union. however, given the rigor of the requirements and conditions in the methodology, there is a serious possibility that the candidate countries will meet the underlying conditions and values enshrined in the methodology better than many member states.
madam chairman! following the council's mistake in october, which led to the deadlock in the enlargement process, the commission's change in the enlargement methodology is a logical move. but it remains, unfortunately, a top-down approach, and so it preserves the existing political elites, even if they are part of the problem rather than part of the solution, and gives too little of a role to citizens and civil society. this greater role of the member states within the enlargement process means also a greater responsibility which they will be able to demonstrate at the forthcoming summit, and i hope that they will not abuse their national interests again as they have done so far. i certainly think that the european union must not lose its credibility and play with the european perspective of the member states and must also take the rule of law seriously if it wants to demand it from them. finally, we need a credible and transparent process for both sides.
- the chairman. we all emphasise practically the same need for reform. the european union as such, as well as a number of other processes. it is certainly true that without reform of the union, enlargement will not make any sense. but it is also a fact that the enlargement process has been abused in many cases for one or another of these interests. this cannot happen again, and perhaps i'm naive, but i hope that this transformed methodology will make a difference. because i think that all the requirements, including those of france, for the opening of the first-stage negotiations with north macedonia and albania have now been met. i will not praise the new methodology, but only because, commissioner, i want to see how it works in practice. and i will not be able to see that until those two countries are given the opportunity to start negotiations. so we can't and shouldn't just ask and give anymore, that october mistake was more than enough.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at two o'clock: either the new european commission realizes that it has presented a totally wrong list, and so it realizes the error and withdraws the proposal and proposes a new one that is truly climate proof and future proof, or the green deal is a big lie. today, to use public money, the money of european citizens, to finance projects which are still linked to fossil fuels is something crazy and unacceptable. building infrastructure today that will soon become stranded assets is pointless. it is not sensible to build gas transport infrastructure today with all the existing infrastructure, with declining demand, with the forecasts that the european commission itself makes in all the scenarios of the long-term strategy, which indicate a reduction in demand of up to 90%. if we in the european parliament want to be credible to the citizens, we cannot accept this list presented by the commission. we must reject it absolutely and we cannot afford to make a mistake, because we have no more time.
member of the commission. – mr president, i say to the house: members, i have listened very carefully, and what i can say is: i heard different views on the project list. but there was one common thing, a common call for more climate action and increased ambition, and the commission shares your call. we are committed to make europe the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050. and i’m glad that most of you expressed support for the commission’s plan to revise the ten-e regulation by december 2020. because a modern, secure and smart energy infrastructure will sustain this energy transition and help us roll out the large-scale deployment of energy from renewable sources. with a future revision, we intend to bring the ten-e framework fully in-line with, and fully supportive of, europe’s climate objective. we will be supporting investments that help to bring about more renewable energy solutions and new technological innovation. on the 4th pci list, i hope you can see this list as another step forward, a cleaner energy infrastructure system. it supports key new electricity projects that help us step into more renewables and the digital potential of our grid. we will have, clearly, the european green deal in mind when addressing the funding of projects from this list and other self-regulation. this list is not a guarantee. however, it is clear to me that the 5th pci list will be a very different list. two years after the launch of the green deal, sustainability criteria will be thoroughly applied for any projects, including gas candidate projects. the sustainability tests to pass to be eligible for funds will be stronger, and this parliament will have a greater say in project selection than its predecessor. i look forward to our cooperation and future dialogue to make our common vision for tomorrow’s energy infrastructure a reality. and a more modern ten-e regulation will help us fund the right projects to deliver a cleaner, more secure and more competitive energy system for europe.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the objection pursuant to article 111 of the regulation on the union list of projects of common interest will take place on wednesday 12 february 2020, at 12.00 noon. the vote on the adoption of the motions for resolutions on the oral question to the commission will take place during the march 2020 part-session. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. recent decisions by the european parliament have laid the foundation and the commitment of the european union to a responsible and deliberate approach to climate change. an energy transition is therefore needed that does not lead to higher consumer prices for energy and food and does not undermine economic competitiveness. therefore, climate action efforts need to be coordinated with the maintenance of security of supply and access to cheap, reliable energy. in this process, pci list 4 is an important step forward. the list includes both a record number of renewable energy projects and natural gas infrastructure developments that are vital to the central european region. the commission considers that the measures under assessment are appropriate to address the specific needs of the region. finally, i consider particularly important the smart grid projects that will promote the system integration of renewable energy sources across europe. the implementation of investments included in pci 4 would lead to the creation of an integrated pan-european network by 2025, thus also achieving the objectives of the energy union. overall, i agree with the projects on the list, as they both help to protect the climate, increase the competitiveness of the member states and increase security of supply.
in writing. the eastmed pipeline and the euroasia interconnector electricity cable are included in the projects of common interest under the 4th eu energy list and concern planning in the eastern mediterranean region. the development of such energy infrastructure is vital to achieving security, stability and prosperity in the region. the mediterranean can become an alternative source of gas and electricity supply to the eu, making a significant contribution to the eu's energy security. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. the geostrategic developments and the aggressive behaviour of turkey make it all the more urgent that we proceed with these projects. moreover, the promotion of these projects is not inconsistent with our climate change objectives. gas can be an alternative source for the transition period until we reach the goal of a carbon-neutral europe by 2050. the euroasia interconnector will end the energy isolation of cyprus, the last eu member state still energy isolated. any attempt to remove the list does not contribute to the climate change objective, but will have significant economic and geostrategic negative effects and potentially wider disruptive effects.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions pursuant to rule 172 of the rules of procedure.
mr president, morocco is a preferred partner of the european union and, in the case of the canary islands and spain, a neighbouring country. that said, the european union can in no way accept morocco's unilateral approval of a new maritime delimitation of the waters of the eastern atlantic off the canary islands, which certainly affects spanish competition in those waters. we are not dealing with a minor matter, nor with a purely bilateral matter. we are facing a clear violation of international law and un resolutions. we are facing an attack on the territorial integrity of a member state. there's no room for warm remarks. we can't wait to see what happens. the european union must actively engage to stop any unilateral action by morocco. and from sea to land. i am also very concerned about the agreements between london and rabat on tomato quotas and entry prices - but we will talk about that in the near future. in this, my first speech in the house, i call on the european union to take action on both issues.
mr president, i would like to turn to the subject of cohesion policy, because in my view it is one of the backbone policies of the eu and is truly irreplaceable in its importance for many eu member states. i would first of all like to recall the purpose of cohesion policy, because its purpose is to remove the disadvantages suffered by certain regions, the weak regions, and to help them grow. also, of course, for new countries, for meeting all the eu standards that were met in the accession talks, there is this subsidy rule, or this support, which is mainly coming from direct payers. it is very dangerous if this policy, which really does help to eliminate disparities, is weakened, and this is what the new multiannual financial framework will unfortunately look like for the time being. i really want to warn against this weakening of cohesion policy, because it can cause very deep divisions. of course, if this reduction is objective because of brexit and other reasons, i understand that, but i think we should advocate cohesion policies as the backbone of eu policies.
mr president, i wanted to inform my colleagues and the commission representative that the czech senate, the second chamber of parliament, has adopted an amendment to the criminal code, on which i worked with my colleagues, which strengthens penalties for animal cruelty, makes the so-called reproduction issues more stringent and generally addresses the issue of criminal law and the issue of animals as living creatures. the debate in both chambers of parliament and in the professional community has made it clear that this is a european issue and that individual countries cannot protect animals effectively enough when they are being transported in tens of thousands of animals in terrible conditions across europe, especially from the so-called new eu countries to the old ones. this is particularly the case with pets, and while this may seem like a marginal issue, it is a very serious one. this is a huge tax and economic leak and the european commission needs to start taking this seriously and tackling it. so my aim here is to call on the european commission to start looking into this issue.
mr president, on 6 and 7 february the 24th conference of the outermost regions, known as the orp, took place in saint martin (france). what are they? territorially, the territories are fragmented and far removed from the space of supranational integration. legally, the only european regions mentioned by name in primary european law in the treaty of lisbon, article 349. but politically they are a platform of consciousness identified with the raison d'être of europe, which is territorial, social and intergenerational cohesion, which is threatened by a multiannual financial framework at the bottom, which in no case can be at the expense of the now so-called traditional policies such as agriculture, cohesion and the regional development fund. it is therefore essential that the outermost regions retain 85% co-financing for their strategic projects. and its energy singularity, in integrating global trade, protecting its sensitive products, and also facing the migratory challenge at its vulnerable borders. to keep the outermost regions afloat, they rely on the commitment of meps born and resident in those regions.
mr president, several months ago we took the decision as the european union to impose sanctions on turkey for its illegal interference in the cypriot eez. while we are still waiting for the measures, turkey has agreed to the tripoli regime to share the sea between them, which has already been deemed by the european union to be completely legally unfounded and invalid. the other day, turkey announced new illegal activities throughout the eastern mediterranean. i wonder, then, if the european union is so effective in imposing measures and sanctions on a predatory state like turkey. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. i therefore believe that, as mr borrell has said, it is simply a matter of applying international law and that the european union must find ways of defending its own interests.
mr president, the uk's exit from the european union is a moment that should not be treated lightly. it is about the loss of an important member of the european union, but also about how we will continue to cooperate in the future, in the interests of all parties involved, including the 3 million europeans who live there. almost half a million romanians have already signed up for the right of residence and they expect us here in the european parliament to defend their rights, but above all to identify new solutions to revive the european project. as a member of the european parliament, i reiterate the need to create a new status for european citizenship, an explicit legal guarantee of eu citizenship, without differences, without inequalities, a guarantee of equal treatment. eu citizens support this wish, and in romania, for example, tens of thousands of people signed the petition initiated together with pes activists romania for this. debates on the future of the eu must focus on the future, on citizens and on this new status of european citizenship.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the western balkans are also the people who live there, not just geopolitical interests. one such story, important for the region and bosnia and herzegovina, is the local elections in mostar. there, more than 105,000 residents have been unable to vote for local government representatives since 2008 due to political blockades. they're run by a technical mayor with no democratic legitimacy. the intolerable situation, which was brought to the attention of the inhabitants themselves by their complaint to the european court of human rights, was confirmed by the court, which ruled that the situation in mostar constituted a violation of human rights and ordered the amendment of the electoral legislation. but bosnia and herzegovina is a special country, and mostar is also a special city, where a bloody war has left deep and in many cases unhealed wounds. i therefore call on the european commission to help the people of mostar and bosnia to amend the electoral law within the time limit set by the court and to enable democratic elections to be held. this will not be the implementation of the commission's 14 points, but it will be a concrete step forward in the democratisation of the country, a concrete step forward for the benefit of the people of mostar and a step forward in bringing bosnia closer to the values of the european union and membership.
mr. president, you can't go any lower than that. you know, i haven't been in politics long, but i know very well that all politics is about means. through money earmarked for the financing of joint projects. the forthcoming budget will not only have an impact over the next seven years, but will also provide the basis for decades of future development of the european project. without a sufficient and appropriate budget, it will not be possible to finance the ambitious and necessary plans for a safe, digital and green europe. nor will it be possible to maintain the levels of cohesion and agricultural policy that are essential for the development of europe. it's necessarily both. cohesion funds are paid to less developed regions, but they have an impact on the development of the union as a whole. and this one has to take care of two things, or it won't be here in the future. it's unity and solidarity. and that's what cohesion is for. it's time we all came to grips with this reality. we need more for more.
mr president, anti-semitism, racism and hatred are concepts which have acquired significance in the course of history, unfortunately in the tragic history of europe and the world, but which are important today primarily because they help us to identify, identify and condemn the contemporary forms of such phenomena, so that we can prevent them. in today's europe, it is possible to erroneously believe that this is entirely up to authoritarian leaders who impose, manipulate people. in fact, a big fire can be caused by a litany of stereotypes and prejudices based on national grounds. for example, yesterday in italy, in an area where the indigenous slovenian national community lives, a number of neo-fascist signs appeared, which i expect the italian authorities to condemn and react appropriately to this far-right phenomenon. there is certainly no need, and european policy has a great responsibility, to suppress all forms of intolerance.
madam president, the european union is built on the rule of law, and it stands or falls on that. the commission should be able to request the polish authorities to provide information on the situation in poland. we have recently reaffirmed this position and, in a resolution, assessed that the situation of the rule of law has deteriorated since the entry into force of article 7. but apparently all this is not helping, because now, after the adoption of the famous "muzzle law" that allows politicians to punish and dismiss judges, the situation in poland is even worse. it is indeed a deadline and apparently the only way to link the disbursement of union funds to the rule of law financial mechanism and to freeze those funds in case of infringements. rules are rules. what is happening in poland affects the whole legal system of the union. i am not even talking about the fact that we can see the lack of respect for the rule of law in some other member states or political parties in them.
madam president, the rule of law, respect for the fundamental democratic principles and the protection of human rights, including workers' rights, are the values on which the european union is founded. in a world where international cooperation and rule-based governance are increasingly replacing political pragmatism and populism, the eu has no better lever to promote these values than trade and investment agreements with third countries. i am, unfortunately, among the minority of meps who believe that the eu should not turn a blind eye to the serious human rights violations and the poor state of democracy in vietnam, either for economic reasons or simply to get a problematic negotiating file off the table. for all these reasons, i voted against the recommendations and resolutions which take the eu, as vietnam's third most important economic partner, away from the principle of respect for human rights. the lack of purpose is something we cannot and should not compete with vietnam's first partners - the us and china.
madam president, i still regret the fact that the united kingdom has left the european union. the weight of this departure for both sides is yet to be seen, but i'm glad to see that a no-deal has been prevented. i don't expect to negotiate easily. in any event, it must be closely linked to the european parliament, which, as the only european institution, directly represents european citizens and is responsible for ensuring that their rights are adequately protected. i voted in favour of the resolution on the mandate for the negotiations on the new partnership because it is very clearly based on the rights and obligations arising from the future partnership and the fact that the united kingdom cannot enjoy the same advantages as it did as a member of the eu. it is very important that the resolution includes the main concerns expressed by the european parliament's committees, in particular the committee on employment and social affairs, regarding the withdrawal agreement reached. by adopting this resolution, the european parliament has set its own red lines which it will have to follow when giving its opinion on the new partnership agreement.
madam chairman! discrimination against the majority of european women in all spheres of social, political, economic and private life and at all ages is unacceptable and incompatible with the fundamental principles and provisions of the legal order of the european union. clearly, we're not addressing gender inequality in the right way. raising awareness of gender inequality through international days such as yesterday's international day of women and girls in science is not enough. unfortunately, even in this parliament, the majority is only for rhetorical equality. how else can we interpret the fact that the lls and renew meps reject key amendments to the resolution to ensure equal pay for men and women for equal work. or that there is a lack of political will, both at member state level and within our ranks, to make gender equality and the principle of ensuring equal pay for equal work part of the european semester. these are the necessary structural measures without which the future gender equality strategy will unfortunately be nothing more than a nice little word for 8 march, international women's day.
mr president, commissioner dalli, violence, suffering, denial of medical treatment, legal aid or information, that is a flagrant violation not only of international humanitarian law but also of european law. first of all, the 2013 asylum procedure directive. and so the commission has an obligation to intervene wherever and whenever mass expulsions occur at the border in flagrant violation of protocol no 4 to the european convention on human rights, in addition to article 19 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is binding on all member states. wherever it occurs, the commission has the obligation to open an infringement file and to ensure that access to european funds is linked to strict compliance with fundamental rights standards in all member states of the european union, including the asylum, migration and integration fund. but the commission must do more. the commission must of course ensure that there is no possibility of expulsion or return to a country which is not safe, such as libya. and the commission has an obligation to open up, once and for all, legal and safe channels of access to the european union so that people are not obliged to risk their lives in the process. humanitarian visas, as this parliament wanted and ordered in the last legislature. that is the task for this legislature, commissioner. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question posed by the blue card. i hear from the socialist group here repeatedly that we should be open to the humanitarian reception of thousands of refugees. i agree that the eu must remain a safe haven for those who need help. and i want to challenge you: contact the socialist minister of the interior in the czech republic to accept 50 unaccompanied children from a greek refugee camp. you will? he refuses to do it. he's a member of the socialist party, which refuses to accept only 50 unaccompanied children.
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs šojdrová, in your question you mentioned the socialists in this european parliament and the czech minister. and i have not mentioned any political family or any particular country. but i would remind you that whoever has entered this european parliament has done so representing a member state which has committed itself to the treaty of lisbon, to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which recognises the right of asylum as a fundamental right and which recognises that international humanitarian law is binding on all member states. for yours, too. and therefore, there is no escape. humanitarian law binds us entirely, and that means respecting asylum seekers. we voted today for fado precisely to control access to the schengen area of free movement at the schengen borders more effectively, but once inside, they have every right to have their fundamental rights, as recognised in the charter, protected by all the member states.
mr president, for years we have been witnessing reports of human rights violations against refugees and migrants at the external borders of the union, including, as we have heard, at the croatian border. in the front, as the eu council presidency, there are representatives of croatia, and colleagues from that country are also in the room. i know what you'd like to say again. that nothing is true, that there's no proof... a month ago, a group of ngos released a report on what happened there last year. and the document shows that the croatian authorities are sending these people back to bosnia and herzegovina beaten with sticks, with the aftermath of air gun fire, barefoot, sometimes naked. the croatian ombudsman, un agencies, and even some croatian police have all made reference to the situation in their anonymous statements. the european commission, even in its previous form, did - what? she said croatia meets the criteria for schengen. so much for that. if i have to, i'll go in person, but i'll do it overnight and unannounced. and then i guess i can show you my tapes whenever you tell me where the evidence is. (the speaker agreed to accept the question indicated by the raising of the blue card in accordance with rule 1718). )
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr ressler, i was not talking about any minimum asylum requests, i was talking about what is happening at the croatian border, that is, at the external border of the union. now you're saying there's no proof, that it's all lies, that nothing is true. we might watch other news or take pictures, or maybe we could go out for coffee and look at all these pictures and videos together, but like i said, if i have to, i'm going to the border alone. i've been to the border as a journalist, but i'd rather go as a politician. because i have more power of attorney, and i hope that i can prove it to you myself if you don't believe the reporters.
in writing. in december, the saga of the dehumanization of more than 1,000 individuals in the vučjak refugee camp was unfolding on the eu's doorstep, to which i myself and the co-signatories, meps, drew attention in a letter to the commission. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-funded 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ' and the 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ' in the field of climate change and its implementation. this threat persists, and in addition to the complex internal political situation, neighbouring countries contribute to it through the practice of denying access to asylum procedures and the forcible expulsion of refugees and migrants. the commission cannot remain indifferent to the emergence of a fortress europe defended by gross violations of human rights. it is essential to ensure that countries, primarily eu member states and (candidate) schengen member states, establish genuinely independent control mechanisms to monitor the implementation of border controls, which must include a thorough review of the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. the commission should continue to seek a solution to the dublin system for a common and solid european asylum policy. i do not want the eu crisis management mechanism to have to intervene in our neighbourhood simply because of the political disagreements of member states, especially those where the ruling political elite is accumulating its electoral votes at the expense of human misery.
madam president! i'm not going to talk exclusively about politics, what we have to do, because i think it's more important at this point to say what's wrong and what's not... (speech on microphone off)...three different groups. first, all panic is wrong and unnecessary. with the new coronavirus, it's not the end of the world if human stupidity doesn't prevail. i emphasize if. second, all the careless people are wrong and unnecessary. but you still wouldn't care if one of your parents, grandparents, grandfathers got infected. i'm the young one. i'd probably get over the virus, but what if i gave it to someone who wouldn't? that's the point. it's about responsibility. and third, self-appointed experts are the most wrong and unnecessary. suddenly everyone knows everything. i think self-isolation is necessary for these people, but from social media in the first place. the situation is absolutely serious, but who am i to judge the measures, but they are too harsh, but they are too little, but they are too late. i don't know, but i do know that i'm responsible and i trust the experts. he says we're on the same page.
in writing. more than a month and a half ago, i addressed the eu council with a question for priority consideration concerning the threat of the emergence of a pandemic from the coronavirus and an assessment of the need for coordinated approaches by member states to prevent its spread. unfortunately, my question has not been answered to date, and i am even more concerned that, apart from the exchange of information, action by the states is still individual and local. as a result, the number of infected now exceeds 100,000, and the death toll has risen to over 4,000. we cannot stop this process with ad hoc action, but with a coordinated approach by countries and national health institutions. examples of such emergencies demonstrate the importance of a public health system accessible to all and sundry, especially those most at risk and those who, in non-standard forms of employment, cannot practically afford preventive absence from work. all other options can be complementary. i expect eu countries and european institutions to do everything possible to strengthen national public health systems with human and financial resources. the provision of emergency healthcare requires an eu-wide exemption from the strict fiscal framework. financial rules must not prevent us from stopping the pandemic and helping those who need it most.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's package of measures as the first urgent eu response to the coronavirus pandemic. it is essential that measures are taken as soon as possible, with the broadest possible support, as a sign of the eu's ability to act swiftly and unitedly in times of crisis. i am particularly interested in the regulation on the promotion of investments in support of member states' health systems and small and medium-sized enterprises, and in the regulation on the extension of the scope of the eu solidarity fund, which i believe should include health emergencies from the outset. i also support the regulation amending the common rules on the allocation of slots at airports. i hope it will help to prevent job losses and safeguard the rights of workers in the aviation sector. the current crisis confirms the need for coordinated action by member states to address global challenges and to strengthen the eu as a social and economic power. the proposed emergency measures show that, if there is the political will, it is possible to take steps towards social union without changing the fundamental principles of the union. the following paragraph is added:
in writing. the eu's response to the novel coronavirus pandemic, both in the prevention and early stages, was largely uncoordinated, opportunistic and under-decisive. in the period since the imposition of a total quarantine in lombardy, italy, the wuhan scenario on european soil that nobody expected (or wanted to foresee), there has been a clear shift, especially of the member states, from a reactive to a more proactive role of the eu as a whole. the second package of commission proposals, on which parliament is voting, also confirms the fact that this role is one of solidarity, as regards the fight against unemployment, assistance to workers in small and mediumsized enterprises, as well as the strengthening of public health systems and the common civil protection mechanism. if european solidarity is important (and apparently effective) in the current phase of urgent collective responses to the consequences of the pandemic, it will be existential in the phase of response to the economic crisis and recession. this response must not in any way sideline the idea of a european green deal, as is being thoughtlessly and irresponsibly advocated by european conservative politics. the current crisis itself demonstrates certain fundamental anomalies of the economic system and the negative effects of its extremes. it also clearly highlights areas where we clearly need 'more europe'. we must therefore start rebuilding the eu today to build a future that is more united, social and equitable, green.
in writing. the european union is entering a phase of preparation to address the economic and social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. the new eu multiannual financial framework and the roadmap for a european economic recovery will be the cornerstones of the european recovery, and it is essential to ensure that the european commission, and in particular the council, does not try to bypass parliament in adopting them. the covid-19 situation provides an additional reason to reconsider the amount and priorities of the mff and to align it with the recovery plan, without jeopardising the implementation of existing programmes and priorities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. the compromise text of the resolution gives the impression that finance is (again) at the forefront, whereas in this crisis it is essential that our focus remains on people, especially the most vulnerable groups such as the elderly, the disabled, the homeless, migrants and refugees, social affairs, the environment and upholding the rule of law.
in writing. the commission's recovery plan, within the framework of the next multiannual financial framework (mff), is a sound compromise proposal at the macro level of the union between the political aspirations of member states seeking a more solidarity-based approach and those of the group that bases its demands on conditionality. in this respect, i welcome the ratio between the planned volume of grants and loans, with grants representing a larger share (eur 500 billion) of the overall envelope of eur 750 billion. i also welcome the fact that conditionality has been overridden by political priorities that direct financial flows towards the green transition, the digital transformation and the strengthening of social resilience, which can be understood as ensuring adequate social and health systems in the member states. it is also commendable that the commission has thus largely followed the substantive orientation of parliament's two previous resolutions. however, from the micro-level of some member states, the unfavourable ratio between loans and grants is surprising and raises some concern, which in the case of slovenia, unlike the ratio of these two components at eu level, is effectively equivalent. the prudence, care and economy in the design of national programmes for the mobilisation and use of these resources and the appropriateness of fiscal policies are all the more important in order to avoid a slide into recession as a result of indebtedness and the additional exposure of the most vulnerable groups of the population.
in writing. the debate on european protection of cross-border and seasonal workers during the covid-19 crisis summarises in one point the key issues dealt with by the european parliament in its june session and the challenges for the future of the eu. the particularly complex and often legally uncertain situation of cross-border and seasonal workers has become a subject requiring urgent attention to protect human rights and the functioning of the european economy with the covid-19 epidemic. at the same time, it is a direct demonstration of the importance of a functioning schengen system, free of internal borders and controls. the free movement of people is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, and the current crisis has underlined the fact that this freedom has no real meaning unless it is exercised in a fair manner, with human rights at its core. decent employment in a safe and healthy working environment, the coordination of social security systems so that no one is caught between the cuts of the differences in member states' legislation, better information for workers and adequate controls on the implementation of crossborder and seasonal work, as well as the elimination of prejudices and the reduction of economic and social disparities between and within member states, must become top of the eu's priority list. the conference on the future of the eu cannot pass without answering the question of how to strengthen the long-neglected social dimension of the eu.
madam chairman! strengthening roma inclusion in europe is not the responsibility of individual states and local communities alone, but must be a concern of the entire european union. the fact that 80% of roma in the european union live below the poverty line and that no progress has been made in tackling structural discrimination confirms that we really need a coherent framework, and a european one, for roma inclusion. it has done its job so far and has basically just put this issue on the political agenda of individual countries, but now we need a different approach. first, we must understand the diversity within the roma community in terms of geographical and social environment and the problem of multiple discrimination against roma. it is also necessary to improve the socioeconomic situation of roma in terms of employment, education, housing, healthcare and to combat the equation between this situation and roma culture or anti-gypsyism. finally, roma need to be included in all phases of national strategies, for slovenians i would mention roma helpers, the club of young roma university graduates, and roma councillors.
in writing. the srebrenica genocide is the epilogue to the centuries-long 'solution' of the bosnian question. at the heart of this question are the muslims, who, because of the continuous non-recognition and suppression of their political subjectivity, have remained an anomaly in the processes of emancipation of european (christian) peoples or nations. the political elites, after the break-up of yugoslavia, have literally started to solve the bosnian problem by destroying part of the population of bosnia and herzegovina. they based their policies on the ideology of nationalism and distorted historical constructs that favored the superiority of one ethnic and religious group over another. the brutal slaughter of more than 8,372 men, boys and children has demonstrated a clear commitment to the final destruction of the social and political pluralism of this country. although the dayton agreement prevented this to a certain extent, it did not in any way set a sufficiently firm framework for its further development. this is why (above all) the eu and european leaders are expected to unequivocally condemn genocide and, in particular, to take a firm stand against attempts to deny it, in the light of the achievement of inter-ethnic reconciliation and justice for the relatives of the victims. the eu must not simply turn its back on a constructive debate on genocide, in the knowledge of how fragile peace and stability can be. that is why i regret all the more that parliament did not have the political will to adopt a resolution to mark the 25th anniversary.
in writing. the political agreement reached by the eu heads of state or government represents a fundamental milestone which makes possible the process of further eu construction and i therefore welcome it as such. however, in several places the latter does not inspire sufficient confidence in what this construction, the foundations of which are being laid by the next multiannual financial framework together with the recovery plan, should actually be. the prevailing view in the political discourse of the eu institutions is that the eu is beginning to be rebuilt for future generations. at the same time, the european council, with its decisions on financial cuts, has targeted the very areas of the budget that would provide a solid foundation for future generations of europeans. it is difficult to imagine a fairer, more united, resilient, development-green and competitive eu when funding is planned to be cut in areas (and programmes) such as employment (just transition fund), youth (erasmus+), health (eu4health), environment, digitalisation, research and development (life+, digital europe, horizon europe) and infrastructure (investeu). of particular concern are the political tendencies of some national leaders to abandon certain of the civilizational achievements of european integration. a europe of future generations, founded on the principles of democracy, human rights and social pluralism, can only be a utopia in the future if the eu does not take a firm and responsible stance on the importance of respect for the rule of law in its member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, due to technical problems with interpretation, i will speak in english. i welcome today’s discussion and the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on the changes to the union civil protection mechanism. it goes without saying that these changes are timely and very necessary. both the text of the report and the almost unanimous support of the members of the envi committee show that parliament univocally supports enhanced cooperation between the states as well as the strengthening of the union mechanism. in my first discussion in the european parliament last september, i spoke about the importance of mechanisms such as the crisis management coordination centre and the european capacity reserve of the resceu for crisis response. such disasters and crises cannot be resolved without cooperation and relying solely on national capacities. member states, especially smaller ones, cannot afford to maintain high preparedness and large reserves in times of crises. in many member states, including slovenia, protection against natural and other disasters is still strongly dependent on volunteers. solidarity and volunteering are values that i, as a social democrat and human being, strongly support. i honestly thank and extend my gratitude to everyone who selflessly helps fellow people and the communities. but volunteers cannot, and must not, bear the burden of major global crises. one of the biggest disappointments in this crisis is still the uncoordinated – sometimes also very selfish – behaviour of the member states. in this chaos, the european commission, within its competences, has quickly responded in the framework of the crisis and civil protection mechanisms in the eu and worldwide. so, even greater coordination, together with increased jurisdiction in the fields of health, crisis response mechanisms and civil protection, joint acquisition and maintenance of a commitment and vaccine reserves are essential for preserving the lives and health of the people.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking ms neumann and members who have contributed to this important resolution on european arms exports. i think it includes many useful suggestions that will help me to deal with a difficult subject like this in a more convergent, transparent and responsible way. you are right that decisions on arms exports receive great attention and are politically sensitive because indeed trade in arms may potentially carry the risk of serious breaches for human rights, humanitarian law and regional stability, and most of the time the three things together. a strict implementation by member states of the agreed common positions on arms exports is therefore essential to uphold the european union’s values and its strategic objective. as you state in your report, this is also crucial for our credibility as a geopolitical player. a high level of convergence with regard to its full application will indeed more effectively ensure respect for human rights and international law by all parties involved. i think we can say that we, the european union, are moving fast in the field of defence. the european defence fund and the european peace facility will serve to strengthen internal collaboration on defence matters to make the european union a more capable security provider at the global level. our defence industries will become ever more closely intertwined. they will strengthen our strategic autonomy and the protection of our citizens, fostering innovation and saving cost. all that is right, but, at the same time, in this context, further convergence of arms export policies becomes still more important. as mentioned in your motion for a resolution, maintaining a vibrant and innovative defence industry in the european union is a key component of our strategic autonomy and our european defence. it serves to ensure our capabilities and reduce dependency, while the defence industry is also a major source of technological innovation. i will give you some examples. in 2018, it generated more than eur 100 billion in revenue and supported more than 400 000 jobs in europe – 400 000 jobs! to ensure a thriving defence industry, exports are essential, but of course the defence industry is different from other industrial sectors and deserves special consideration, taking into account its obvious links to national and international security, human rights and humanitarian values. that’s why the european union member states have also exported control rules in place for military equipment since 2008. under the common position on arms export, member states assess arms export license applications against a number of criteria established to ensure our strategic interests and also our values. a review of this text was finalised last year. the council agreed that the common position will serve this purpose but introduce some changes to bring the text into line with the adopted arms trade treaty and other recent developments. in your own statement on the common position on arms export control, you stress three key objectives: the need for increased control, convergency and transparency. first, your support for an increase control. let me start by saying that i am grateful the report welcomes operations within these objectives to implement a united nations arms embargo on libya. this is a concrete example of what the european union does to prevent arms ending up in the wrong hands. further, as a global actor, the eu supports outreach activities to assist countries in the european neighbourhood and beyond in setting up arms export control mechanisms and implementing the arms trade treaty. second, on transparency, european union member states are already among the most transparent countries, including in arms exports. still, in order to increase the possibility to further scrutinise accountability, i am glad to say that this year the european external action service will launch a public, searchable database on its website to allow all stakeholders to consult and analyse member states’ arms exports in a user-friendly way. so everybody will be able to know what the member states’ arms exports are about – everybody will be able to find out whatever data they want to know about it. third, and lastly, increased convergence. member states are holding regular exchanges to share information on policies, denial of licences and possible measures. as a concrete result, a new initiative has been launched and the working party on arms exports is currently preparing a council decision to set rules on end-user certificates for the export of small arms and light weapons and their ammunition. let me conclude by anticipating that the next annual european union arms export report on 2019 will become available shortly, probably in october, two months earlier than in previous years, and it will bring a lot of precious information about these developments. i would like to thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to hearing your points or views.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, thank you to the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have been involved in this difficult text. difficult because this subject is a mixture of industrial, legal and moral considerations, as was well understood in the introductory speech on a sensitive subject. it is also difficult because, let us admit it, this parliament has no prerogatives on the subject. i understand that this upsets many colleagues who would like to be able to take control of arms exports, but this is not the case, it is a national prerogative. where i am wrong about what was said in the introduction to this debate is that just because this european parliament does not exercise control over a subject does not mean that democratic control does not exist. democratic control exists in our national parliaments on this very specific issue of arms export controls. this is one of the rather strong reservations my group has about this report, namely that these national prerogatives must not give rise to systematic suspicion on the part of our parliament. the other reservation concerns a point raised by the rapporteur, namely the production of arms at european level. however, ladies and gentlemen, the european union as such does not produce weapons and the instruments you mention, the european defence fund for example, are still virtual instruments. i would remind you that this fund has no budget at the moment, nor even any implementing regulations, and that when it comes into force it will probably be worth one billion a year. everyone knows that the weapons programmes are much more extensive than that. so we'll talk about it when the time is right. when these european, truly european, arms programmes are in place, we may be able to talk about the methods of control. for now, it's virtual. so i understand the impatience of some members to see this house play a more active role, but we are not there yet. that is why my group has strong reservations about the very ideological motivations of this report, even though we will support anything that goes in the direction of convergence, transparency and good information.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the great amount of work that has gone into this draft. i believe there are many reasons why the eu should be more cohesive in its foreign and security policy. and an element of greater sovereignty in foreign and security policy is certainly also to be found in increased cooperation in the production of armaments. european cooperation eliminates the need for costly duplicate structures and can thus also save public funds which we urgently need for peaceful conflict resolution and for the elimination of the causes of conflict. but increased cooperation on defence, whether within the eu or between individual member states, also requires european arms export controls, especially given that the eu countries are the second largest arms exporter in the world after the us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in 2008, the eu adopted criteria to be checked and respected by member states in the case of arms exports. however, the criteria are still not always met. this is true even of arms exports to countries involved in the wars in yemen and libya. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. it is often used to break international law. in other words, it is not enough to simply express good intentions and then call on member states to behave in accordance with the common criteria. we also need a sanction mechanism in the event that individual member states ignore the agreed common criteria, because european cooperation also requires european enforcement. and another thing that has recently been added: we need an immediate halt to all arms exports to turkey. turkey is threatening us with war. it would be absurd if we were to supply turkey with the weapons to kill eu citizens. i would therefore ask you to support the s&d group's amendment.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the report assesses the implementation of the common position on arms export and related technologies, and evaluates the progress that the eu, and especially member states, have made so far. this report is a political compromise that reflects the complex nature of the topic. it spans from the basic right of every state to self-defence, enshrined in the un charter, to the eternal aspiration of human kind for universal peace and security. arms export and related technologies are inevitably subject to fierce ideological discussion. the report reflects the steps forward made by member states towards respecting the eu common position on arms export, and more and more member states are following the common position and its eight criteria on arms export and related technologies. although greater progress is needed, it is important to recognise all efforts made in this report. and we must bear in mind that arms export is still a member state competence, which is why the progress made in respecting the common position is even more important. the future development of the union and of the international environment will require greater convergence among member states on arms export. a growing number of joint development programmes in the field of defence production will expose the need for a common approach to arms export among member states as well as at eu-level. defence production is destined to become more european and arms export control mechanisms will need to reflect this new reality. this new reality, in turn, will need to be reflected in eu legislation as well. but despite great ambitions, we are not yet at that point. this is why we are not in favour of an ad hoc sanction mechanism in this field and prefer a future european solution instead. this can be achieved through a gradual approach, in parallel with the development and strengthening of the common security and defence policy. regardless of all differences, the report reiterates that the common position and its necessary mechanisms must ensure that exported arms and related technologies are not used in a wrong way and above all, are not in the possession of the wrong actors. we need to ensure that exported arms and technologies are not used for violating human rights and basic values.
in writing. ursula von der leyen's speech began by paying tribute to the workers who were on the front lines of the fight against the virus (covid-19). i join in the tribute and remind you that support for the working class must not end with symbolic gestures. in her speech, the president set out a series of welcome priorities that were supposed to contribute to the consolidation of the union, but (intentionally) without a clear sequence or plan. in particular, i welcome the commission's clear commitment to building a health union, taking a greater initiative in crisis response by strengthening the eu's civil protection mechanism, securing jobs and establishing a european legal framework for minimum wages and collective bargaining. within my field of work, i will also actively seek to see the commission implement as soon as possible the commitments to strengthen the eu's competence in ensuring the social security, health and well-being of eu citizens. the crisis of the covid-19 pandemic has once again demonstrated the inability of countries to act quickly and in a coordinated manner. some heads of government and state are trying to compromise to reduce the funds needed for the recovery from the pandemic, as well as the funds for the green (just) transition. thus, with the exception of a few months when people were put before the interests of the economy, the union is unfortunately still too focused on the pursuit of sustainable (economic) growth rather than sustainability.
we now move on to the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from 5.45 p.m. to 7.00 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in the same way as in previous rounds. all votes will be by roll-call and members will be able to verify their votes and the results of the votes by consulting the document which will be published on the plenary's website. i call the second round of voting open. you have until 7:00 to vote. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9.00 a.m. the sitting will be suspended at 7 p.m. after the second round of voting and will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i would like to inform the honourable members that due to travel restrictions, interpreters from ireland are only available on a limited basis and therefore no interpretation from and into gaelic can be guaranteed this morning between 9.00 and 10.30. we're trying to do the best we can.
mr president, allow me to inform the house of the negative developments that are taking place at the moment in my home country of cyprus. turkey, in a repeated display of provocation and aggression, is committing new criminal acts against the republic of cyprus, in violation of the principles of the united nations, the resolutions of the security council and the european parliament, and is opening the closed area of famagusta. turkish president erdogan and deputy prime minister announced that they will open the closed area of famagusta tomorrow, thursday. i call on the european parliament and the high representative of the european union to condemn immediately the criminal, aggressive, expansionist turkey, but also to take action against it. the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish government's decision to withdraw from the european union.
mr president, i think it was important to point out this incident, which was already covered by the media this morning. perhaps the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mr borrell, can take part in the debate shortly afterwards.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the resumption of hostilities between armenia and azerbaijan in the nagorno-karabakh conflict (2020/2809 (rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i am going to make reference to the issue of the debate on the nagorno-karabakh region, and if you allow me at the end i will say some words about the issue raised by our cypriot colleague. the current military confrontation along the line of contact in the nagorno-karabakh conflict zone is of our utmost concern. it is the largest confrontation since 1993-1994. we have been very engaged on this issue. on the day that fighting erupted, i released a statement as high representative calling for an immediate cessation of hostilities, de-escalation and a strict observance of the cease-fire. during those days i had several phone calls separately with armenian and azerbaijani foreign ministers urging both sides to stop hostilities and return to the negotiation table. our position is clear: the fighting must stop. both sides need to re-engage in meaningful negotiation, which, by the way, has not been very fruitful over the last 30 years, without preconditions under the auspices of the osce minsk group co-chairs. there cannot be a military solution to the conflict no less an external interference. this position was reinforced by the european council held on 1 and 2 october. we have seen extremely worrying reports of a surge in attacks on populated areas which is taking a deadly toll on civilians. we strongly urge the sides to fully observe their international obligations to protect civilian populations, and with the resources we have, we have urgently allocated a small amount of money in humanitarian aid for the affected populations. in fact, we don’t have a lot of information about how the conflict is developing. detailed information is scarce and there is a lot of fake news. we see monitoring underground remains suspended, so we don’t have that service. but what we observed is an increasing amount of information which is aimed at mobilising the domestic audiences in both countries and could be used to pull regional actors into the conflict. media reports need therefore to be examined with great caution because some of the news that has been disseminated, we don’t have confirmation about it. at this a stage further escalation of the conflict and involvement of regional actors unhappily cannot be excluded. this would seriously threaten the stability of the whole region. on 30 september i discussed the situation with the russian foreign minister. i also spoke with the turkish foreign minister, the two regional actors which are closer to the conflict. i emphasised the importance of de-escalating, the importance that regional actors refrain from any activity and rhetoric that could inflame things even further. i spoke to the foreign ministers of armenia and azerbaijan during the weekend. i stressed that the increase in civilian casualties is unacceptable. i knew from both sides the actions taken by the other side. each one of them blames the other for starting and for attacking civilian population from the territory, not from nagorno-karabakh itself, the region in dispute, but from armenia to azerbaijan and azerbaijan to armenia. the fighting should stop. the minsk co-chairs are going to have meetings this week with the foreign affairs ministers of two countries and the only way of getting out of this situation is that the minsk group co-chairs pushes for immediate negotiations as soon as possible. we will continue working with the key partners and try to help stop hostilities because the only solution is to go back to the negotiating table, but this negotiating table has been open for the last 30 years – 30 – without any kind of advance. the war is not an alternative. we have to push both parties to stop fighting and negotiating without preconditioning, but this is for the time being not the case. i’m sorry i cannot inform you more about that because i accept that information is very scarce, and we have to take much care in disseminating news which has not been confirmed. about the situation in cyprus, i share the concern of the honourable member who took the floor a moment ago. for sure, this issue of famagusta was taken into consideration and the european council also. the opening of this area, which is a closed area according to the cease-fire agreements under the auspices of the united nations, is a serious violation of this agreement. yesterday we issued a statement and today the 27 will issue another one asking turkey to stop doing this activity. you know that the european council issued a statement about the situation in the eastern mediterranean, and for sure this is not going to help. on the contrary, it is going to increase tension and make it more difficult to reach an agreement on an especially difficult situation for all of us in the eastern mediterranean.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is indeed very painful and sad to see killings and people suffering as part of this conflict which has been going on for decades while we, as observers in the international community, do very little, despite the statements we put out. since the fighting broke out again, more than 200 people have been killed. my deepest condolences and sympathy to the victims and their families on both sides. reports vary, but so do – as the high representative himself said – the claims made by the fake news media, disinformation campaigns, propaganda and by both sides with the aim of mobilising their own people and confusing the international community. i can tell you that lies cannot be hidden forever and sooner or later the truth will come out. i would also like to repeat that the violence, the hostilities and the killing of people must stop immediately. the conflict has been surrounded by various claims – as you mentioned, according to amnesty international even cluster bombs have been used. this needs to be clarified and investigated, as does the involvement of third parties and even syrian fighters going through turkey to the conflict area. all violence must stop immediately. the two sides should return to the negotiating table under the umbrella of the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce) minsk group to find a mutually acceptable solution, based on agreed principles, and refrain from the threat of the use of force, which – sadly – has clearly been violated now, territorial integrity and the equal rights of the self-determination of people. the involvement of any other parties needs to stop as soon as possible. unfortunately, we saw at one point in time that they were very close to a mutually acceptable situation and compromise but now this is far away.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, high representative, firstly, let me express our utmost concern about the eruption of renewed military hostilities between armenia and azerbaijan both in the nagorno-karabakh region and along the line of conflict. the fighting must stop immediately and all sides of the conflict must return to respecting the cease-fire agreement without any delay and without any preconditions. as the s&d, we have repeatedly appealed to refrain from any actions and also from any rhetoric that may fuel tensions between the two countries. today we urge to stop the fighting and return to negotiations. there is no other path to solving the conflict other than to return to the negotiating table under the chairmanship of the osce minsk group. the principles of the un charter, the osce helsinki final act and the 2009 basic principles continue to be the guiding principles for the solution to this conflict. with the role of russia as mediator diminishing, we must expect other partners to contribute to the same goal. this is especially important given the reports about the presence of mercenaries sent by turkey. it seems that many, if not most, of our foreign policy challenges at external borders have turkey as the common denominator and cause. the latest actions are yet another clear sign of ankara’s depart from eu values and international law standards.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, it is not acceptable to use violence and killings in international affairs, also between armenia and azerbaijan. you can try to force things and make changes when you have power, but it is clear that such changes do not last. the only lasting solution can be a mutually agreed and mutually accepted solution. this means negotiations. it means talking to each other. it means diplomacy. right now, the only result of the actions of the political leaders is the suffering of ordinary people, killings and people losing their homes. violence creates violence and this will have long-lasting consequences. if some other interested parties, like turkey or russia, really and truly want to invest in ending this conflict, then there is a way, but it’s not by sending fighters to fight in the conflict or by assisting in some other military forum. they can help through diplomacy or by facilitating negotiations. if you take a look at history, including recent history, the people of south caucasus, including the people of armenia and azerbaijan, have suffered enormously under this political violence. the spiral of violence must be stopped. the eu has also tried to contribute to the well-being and growth of these societies through, for example, the eastern partnership programme, trying to demonstrate that the only way to bring prosperity to societies is through peace. violent choices tend to throw societies into long and agonising misery, poverty and aggression. the eu must continue to help armenia and azerbaijan find a way to alleviate this long-term hatred and reach a solution, but this cannot be done at a time of war.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the recent flare-up of the conflict is very serious and broader than just nagorno-karabakh. we call for an immediate ceasefire and engagement of parties of the minsk group, but also other important players like the eu. armenia enjoys russian security guarantees that do not include nagorno-karabakh, as it is an internationally recognised part of azerbaijani territory. azerbaijan has turkish backing. the problem is that the conflict concerns this time a different part of the southern caucasus, with key routes of oil pipelines, gas pipelines, roads, rail and fibre optics leading outside of russian influence to europe, among others. so we have to have a look at this and we have to see the whole broad picture.
mr president, the deep capitalist crisis is bringing fierce rivalries between the bourgeois classes of the two countries with a resurgence of nationalism, wars and refugees. the european union, the united states and nato bear a great deal of responsibility for the conflict in nagorno-karabakh and are involved in competition with russia and china. they redistribute the land, redistribute the energy pathways, with the blood of the people they draw the borders. the role of the turkish bourgeoisie in supporting azerbaijan is special, and it is no accident that the recent statement of the european council has given rise to this role. and now they're opening up the varangian coastal front, which we denounce. finally, the course of events shows that in the territories where for decades during the soviet union armenians and azerbaijanis lived peacefully, they are now killing each other in the rubble of the overthrow of socialism. it is another proof of the superiority of socialism and of the capitalist barbarity of today. the two peoples, learning from their own history, must fight against monopolies and create the conditions, in accordance with their own interests, for a break with the capitalist system.
mr president, since the first day of this military confrontation, we in the european parliament urged both sides to come to a cease-fire. we called for a balanced approach, based on the principles both sides agreed on. the most important and invaluable stake to take into account are the lives of the citizens. the continued fighting does not contribute to anything. it puts the stability of the region in danger. no country should add fuel to the fire by providing mercenaries, weapons or inflammatory speeches. i express my condolences to the victims of the conflict and to all the refugees of the past –now and in the future – of this clash, where no one will gain and everyone will lose. no empire will be built in the 21st century, regardless of the insane dreams. so my message goes to those who are adding fuel to this fire, and i’m asking them to stop – especially mr erdoğan. the european union is ready to help, to mediate and to support the minsk group that already addressed its strong engagement based on the agreed principles. the european union does not export mercenaries and sorrow. the eu exports values for decent lives for all citizens.
the situation in nagorno-karabakh is a matter of grave concern to me, to you and to all our colleagues. that is why we are debating this today. and if you drove into brussels today, you would see the flags in the streets: people are concerned about the lives that are being lost in the region. mr high representative, the european council last week instructed you to advise you on further eu support for the peace process. you were very clear today: you're going for a cease-fire, you're talking to all the parties. but what surprised me: you didn't actually talk about using cluster bombs. you have not mentioned the foreign partner that is interfering, namely turkey. you didn't mention the foreign fighters being sent there. no, you are talking about a positive agenda with turkey for the conflict that my cypriot colleague mentioned, which i understand. but with turkey, we will have to lay all our cards on the table to make it clear that this cannot go on. thank you, you have our support to resolve this conflict.
mr. chairman, please! from this point of view, i would like to say to our friends in azerbaijan, to our friends in armenia: there is a land called arcachon, and armenians have lived there for seventeen centuries, and they will continue to live there, regardless of these wars, unless the aushungerung method is applied. remember, my dear friends, the year 1812, the year 1828, remember the 1920s, and then you will know who imposed on you the borders that today are the beginning of this war. you walk away from what russia has offered you, then you can sit down at the table and only then can you make a deal. your neighbor to the north is watching and wiping his hands today.
mr president, why are we concerned and concerned? because the population of nagorno-karabakh is 95% armenian, and if the fighting continues, it is obviously the assurance of a bloodbath or a mass exodus. but it is also because the caucasus is a land of lust, of conflict, which has already experienced two serious wars since the fall of the ussr, in chechnya and georgia, and the region can flare up. and it is because behind the belligerents are two great powers: russia, supposedly in solidarity with armenia, and turkey, which is involved in many armed operations, libya, syria, the eastern mediterranean and, today, this conflict. i think that europe cannot simply lament, it can take the initiative. of course, we must demand an immediate ceasefire, we must work together with the minsk group, but we must also put pressure on ankara because we will appear as mediators, that is good, but i fear that at some point we will be forced to choose our side.
mr president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, as colleagues have previously mentioned, the renewed escalation of violence in and around nagorno-karabakh puts at risk the fragile stability in the whole south caucasus region. of all territorial disputes of the post-soviet states, this one is the most dangerous. as the european parliament has repeatedly stated – and to be very clear once again – there is no, and there cannot be, a military solution to this conflict. instead, a political settlement is necessary, in accordance with international law: for example, the principles enshrined in the united nations charter, the 1975 osce helsinki final act, as well as the osce minsk group’s 2009 basic principles. therefore, we all call for an immediate halt to any military activity in the region. both sides need to return to diplomatic dialogue without preconditions and in good faith. as many colleagues have already pointed out, third parties in the region should refrain from any action which can fuel the conflict and undermine the desire of the people from both countries for a peaceful future.
mr president, high representative, it is indeed extremely concerning to see the outbreak of hostilities in nagorno—karabakh between armenia and azerbaijan. these countries have been involved for decades in territorial conflict, and the use of force against territorial integrity and the loss of life, including among the civilian population recently, runs the risk of escalating into a larger regional conflict. indeed, despite the fact that the un security council, in its four resolutions, underscored the sovereignty and territorial integrity of azerbaijan within its internationally-recognised borders, as also the european parliament confirmed numerous times in its resolutions, and the osce and the minsk group have promoted the peace process for many years, today a lasting peaceful settlement of this conflict is possible only in substantive and meaningful negotiations. war is not a solution. the violence must stop. but it’s also time for the european union to act.
mr president, nearly three decades of diplomatic efforts haven’t been able to end a conflict that again is taking a big toll in human lives. now we are confronted with a risk of a fully-fledged war in the south caucasus with the dangerous involvement of external actors. we have to call on all sides for an immediate ceasefire and for de-escalation. all sides have to resume talks under the auspices of the osce minsk group without preconditions, and everyone in the region and beyond should be working to foster peace instead of escalating the situation. however, i also call for the need to recognise and respect the right to self-determination of the people of nagorno-karabakh. for the need to uphold their democratic will and choices, already made several times. this is not only a territorial issue. disregard for the right to self-determination is at the root of too many conflicts. without respecting the democratic will of the people of artsakh, i am afraid there will hardly be a viable and fair way out of this conflict.
the commission has already done so. we have been talking about the countries in conflict all along. if there is one thing left-wing youth of azerbaijan recently wrote that our underfunded educational institutions have done well, it is to sow hatred and spread nationalist propaganda. meanwhile, cluster bombs are falling on the unofficial capital of nagorno-karabakh, erdogan's mercenaries are fighting for azerbaijan, and russia continues to supply arms to armenia and azerbaijan. let 's not kid ourselves . the european council's policy towards turkey is making a diabolical contribution to the destabilisation of the south caucasus. this is a very important point, and i hope that the commission will take it up. but let's talk about our own responsibility: for example, euronest should act immediately, because we must finally give a voice to those who, like the young people of azerbaijan, say: the enemy is not armenians our enemy is the people in power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, it is a very serious accusation by amnesty international that it confirms the use of cluster bombs in the city of stepanakert, most likely by azerbaijani forces: this is a flagrant and egregious violation of international humanitarian law. the eu can no longer remain silent or simply repeat the usual mantras: the time has come for action to protect the civilians of this troubled region, starting with the revision of the negotiating framework with the direct involvement of the european union. we must not be afraid to put on the table targeted, substantial and dissuasive sanctions against those actors who will not agree to a cessation of hostilities and to negotiations, but even more so against those third parties who intervene in the conflict, exacerbating it further for their own interests. i would like to congratulate canada for its prompt suspension of arms exports to turkey following complaints about their use in nagorno-karabakh. i 'll make this clear: i strongly condemn turkey's role in the conflict. how many times must we repeat that ankara, a candidate country and nato ally, has a geopolitical agenda that is different and contradictory to ours? enough talk, we need action! if not now, when?
mr president, there is obviously a sweeping consensus in this house that the fighting should be stopped without preconditions. but what then? and just pretending that sending the parties back to the negotiating table would bring them anywhere closer to a solution would be foolhardy because it hasn’t happened in 30 years. so what are we doing to show our own responsibility? it’s not just tensions as usual in the south caucasus. there are two factors that are changing. first, the united states are dialling down their engagement in the region, even though they are one of the three co-chairs, and, second, turkey is not de—escalating – on the contrary. we are presently in a situation where two european neighbours – russia and turkey – are squaring off against each other in three distinct arenas. both neighbours have withdrawn from the international rule of law as a principle they adhere to. the eu does not have a formal role in this conflict, but if the eu doesn’t take more responsibility on itself, who will help in solving the issue? that’s why i subscribe to the term that mr kubilius has used, the strategic responsibility of the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't want to distract from the coronavirus, but it seems to me more dangerous to invade a peaceful, democratic community and shoot live ammunition into its neighborhoods. this is what the bosporus and baku lunatics are doing in nagorno-karabakh. they're killing the most at-risk group of armenians, regardless of age, weight, or medical history. i don't want to deal with azerbaijan. the kaputtnik state is connected to european values only by oil pipelines. whatever baku is doing there, it is thanks to erdoğan, who is showing his fierce determination to complete a genocide that began 100 years ago. it is unbelievable that the eu, that we still see him as a partner, while he spreads terror with jihadist mercenaries in the caucasus, iraq, syria, libya and the mediterranean. as the unofficial spokesman of the non-attached members of parliament, i hereby officially recognise the republic of arzach. may others follow and give it the protection of the international community that it has been denied for too long. the eu should return the nobel peace prize and, as a reward (the president interrupts the speaker), should apply for the neville chamberlain memorial medal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a seemingly frozen conflict over nagorno-karabakh has suddenly turned hot again. all are calling for a cessation of hostilities and a return to the agreed minsk format. the principles of territorial integrity and self-determination are at odds here. the minsk process was supposed to bring about a solution. i hope we learn from this that we should not simply leave the other supposedly frozen conflicts to themselves, but act preventively. what has changed since karabakh declared independence in the early 1990s and armenia closed the territorial gap to the enclave by occupying azerbaijani territory? the difference today is that the fragile balance is being unilaterally altered by turkey, through unconditional military and political solidarity with the aliyev regime and probably also through the transfer of islamist fighters from syria to azerbaijan, who are deployed there. i think that nato member turkey is getting dangerously close to russia. in view of the tragic history, turkey has every reason to avoid even the appearance of acting against armenians here. i call on the eu to find allies in the world community to force a ceasefire and negotiations together. perhaps we should try to achieve internationalisation in the form of un blue helmets or an osce peacekeeping force permanently ensuring that the two sides remain separate, that the people of nagorno-karabakh remain there by their own choice and that the aseri can return safely to their homeland.
mr president, the aggression carried out by the azerbaijani army and its turkish ally against the armenian people of nagorno-karabakh must alert us and mobilize us. the armenian people suffered the worst with the genocide perpetrated by turkey in 1915. it has endured half a century of soviet rule and since the fall of the berlin wall has been yearning for freedom and democracy. nagorno-karabakh is an example of democracy in this part of the world, which is that of a people whose millenary culture is threatened by the will to hegemony of its neighbours. europe is directly concerned because the rise of dictatorial and freedom-threatening regimes at its doorstep will end up threatening it itself. it has the means to push back the aggressors by imposing heavy economic sanctions, this is how it acts to safeguard the interests of cyprus and greece in the mediterranean, this is how it must act towards baku and ankara to come to the aid of the armenian people who are now under attack.
mr. chairman, mr. high representative, almost a century ago, a great voivode of the imro and bulgarian poet peyo kracholov yavorov wrote about the armenians as follows: ... a wreckage of nothingness from ever brave people martyr, children of a mother slave anxious and victims of a feat great... this is part of the poem dedicated to the armenian genocide one of the greatest crimes against the armenian people, still unrecognized and committed by turkey. today we see once again the brutal intervention of sultan erdoğan. we see how he, with his rhetoric, with his mercenaries he transfers, with the weapons he transfers, with the way he talks, again makes the world a laughing stock and is again at the heart of aggression. and it is high time that you, as the high representative, and this parliament finally stop the double-dealing and the double-speak with president erdogan, this candidate-sultan, this dictator. because when you have to fight some banana dictator, everyone unites, they read big declarations, but when we talk about erdogan, everyone here, or with a few exceptions, is silent, ashamed, they dare not say it. of course, our sympathies and our hearts will always be with the people of armenia and i also firmly believe that the symbol of armenia ararat should return to armenia again.
mr president, the attack launched by azerbaijan with the support of turkey threatens the stability of the whole caucasus. the commission must increase its pressure on azerbaijan and turkey to halt the military aggressions against the armenian people and reject the use of violence to change the status quo in the region. but the commission must also call on the member states that are selling weapons to turkey that go to this conflict. spain is the main member state selling weapons to turkey. this must be stopped by the commission, mr borrell. the conflict can and will be solved through constructive negotiation between the parties, but to reach a peaceful solution that must respect the self—determination right of the citizens in the republic of artsakh.
there is no war zone in the wider region in which turkey is not involved: libya, syria, iraq and now nagorno karabakh. not only have they not reconciled themselves with the historical truth by not accepting one of the worst tragedies in human history, the armenian genocide, but today they are actively involved, transporting jihadists from syria to the nagorno karabakh war zone to fight on the side of azerbaijan. the decisions of mr erdogan undermine the achievement of the ceasefire and lead to the expulsion of populations from their ancestral lands. mr. borrell, anyone who thinks they can win the war doesn't stop to make peace. that's why we need to intervene forcefully now. you must take the initiative to make the parties involved understand that sanctions are not a free-for-all for those who violate international law, even for those who have a special economic interest in certain european countries. we must ensure that hostilities cease and that negotiations under the auspices of the minsk group resume.
mr. president, please! the honourable high representative! the eu is once again facing a crisis in its immediate neighbourhood. this time it is the ever-unstable south caucasus, where the conflict over nagorno-karabakh has been defused with the help of turkey. i think the time has come for the european union to finally show the various regional players who want to renew this and other imperial dreams, which are a nightmare for everyone else, where the limits of our patience are. i therefore expect the eu to demand unitedly from both the warring parties and their regional sponsors that they cease their armed conflicts and enter into negotiations for a peaceful solution to the crisis. and we have to make it very clear that if they don't, there will be massive economic sanctions. if anything, the eu has enormous economic power, especially in the regions immediately around it, and it is time to use it. recent experience in the eastern mediterranean shows that a united and determined approach by the european union is having an effect.
mr. president, please! i welcome today's debate, but i regret that it has been delayed for months. this is confirmed by data from the world health organisation, as more than half of the eu deaths in the first wave of the pandemic were residents of nursing homes and other social institutions. these statistics are appalling and should never have happened. unfortunately, there is no political will in the member states or at eu level to thoroughly investigate the causes and correct the errors. the last few months have exposed the deep-seated nature of old-fashionedness, or old-fashionedness. as the eu population ages, ageing is a topic that is avoided, treated with a host of prejudices and stereotypes, or equated with illness and disability. the result is a huge number of socially excluded older people. we see them as a social burden, and we don't see the nursing home as a warm home, but as a last stop in life. but human rights, including adequate health care, belong to all people, at all ages and without any discrimination. it is unacceptable that in the first wave, nursing homes and other institutions were left to their own devices in many places in europe and were forced to become makeshift hospitals, without the appropriate equipment and trained medical staff. i therefore strongly support the commission president's commitment to creating a strong health union, but this is not enough. together we must also do more to promote solidarity between generations, combat age discrimination and fully respect the rights of older people. we urgently need a common european framework for long-term care based on human rights and social solidarity. i call on the commission to develop a common framework of rules and quality standards for long-term care services that will bind all member states. it must be based on the holistic needs of people and provide social and psychological support in addition to health care for a period of life which, with the right approach from society and politics, can be as beautiful, as educational and as high quality as any other.
before we continue the debate, we will begin the voting period today. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will run from 7:15 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. the vote shall be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. meps can check their votes and the results of the votes by consulting the document published on the plenary session website. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing and, exceptionally, only explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting period open. you can vote until 8:30. the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m. i'm here to give you a heads-up. following the appointment of our colleague miriam dali as a member of the national parliament, the european parliament declares the corresponding vacancy open, with effect from 19 october 2020, following the usual procedure.
mr president, i’d like to express my thanks for the efforts made during these challenging times of the pandemic, when people actually expect fast and safe technological solutions; in parallel scientists need access to quality data that are collected faster but with clear consent. so we need to make sure citizens have options when data is collected, when they are recorded on their mics and cameras, and their locations recorded, and we definitely need immediately to set standards, clear standards, to remove regulatory obstacles for a real harmonised digital single market. at the same time we need to make sure, in order to protect our european quality of life, that the design of algorithms, and the metrics that we request, will be bound by legislation in order to translate ethical principles and human rights to the digital era – by law to ensure that we will not compromise safety or privacy with extra security criteria, and will make sure that automation remains under human control. in this case we can avoid exclusion or manipulation of perception, predicting the policing or ranking of citizens and the profiling of citizens. in that case we can collaborate more with democracies to protect our democracies.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we all know that the line between online and offline has been blurred for a long time. we all know the real-world consequences of what happens in the virtual world, and we all know that the current situation has only accelerated the trend of digital transformation of society. but where does the current system lead? the creation of opaque algorithms that determine how the world is presented to us based on our personal data, which is then sold to whoever is willing to pay the most for it. when disinformation spreads much faster than anything verified, and when algorithms know exactly who's most susceptible to conspiracy theories. this structure leads to easy manipulation of voters, to the organized dissemination of disinformation and conspiracy theories, to the sale of illegal, harmful products, to hate speech, even to incitement to violence and, unfortunately, often actually leads to violence. all this - also because of those politicians who abuse people's fear and anger for their own interests and wage a cultural war with the media and ghosts of the past - all this deliberately undermines people's trust in the profession and authority, reduces the quality of public debate and general culture and consequently prevents the solution of the truly pressing problems of the people. political manipulation and conflicts of interest in the field of our personalities are the greatest threat to democracy. the key focus of the digital services act reports is therefore on the requirements for algorithm transparency, the labelling of the source of advertising and misleading information, and clear rules for moderating content online. we try to find the right balance between freedom of speech and reporting and the privacy of internet users and protection against malicious content. people should know what and who is behind the content and have control over their identity. while the internet giants are slowly making progress in protecting both users and our democracies, it is imperative that we take the monopoly of public space from private corporations and their algorithms and demand more transparency and more accountability from them.
in writing. the health crisis and the accompanying restrictive measures will undoubtedly also have profound economic and social consequences, which may be one of the greatest common challenges facing the european union since its inception. according to the latest forecasts by the world bank, based mainly on data from the first wave of the coronavirus epidemic, between 88 and 115 million people will be pushed into poverty globally by 2021. it is essential to stress that poverty is not just an economic category and that it also has a number of other negative effects on people's physical and mental health and social security. this debate is premature, however, given the fact that we are in the midst of a second wave of the epidemic, which will further deepen the economic and social crisis with its disproportionately large scale and impact. concrete eu action to mitigate these consequences is difficult to discuss, given that negotiations on the recovery and reconstruction funds and the multiannual financial perspective are still pending. the commission's 2021 work programme, which lacks the necessary adjustments to deal with the social crisis, and at the same time more radical changes and a shift towards a more inclusive and resilient society, is likely to be a collateral damage of the absence of this agreement.
in writing. the outcome of the us presidential elections holds out the promise of a return of this great power to international relations more favourable to respect for international law and the strengthening of international institutions, including multilateralism, which could potentially restore confidence in the strength of the euro-atlantic strategic partnership. the latter is clearly a prerequisite for a safe and stable world, based on rules and norms, for the benefit of both the us and the rest of the international community (larger and smaller) and, above all, the people who are affected by political decisions at the highest level in their daily lives. i appreciate that the efforts of the outgoing administration have gone in a different direction, but i also want to point out that it will take considerable effort at all levels to eradicate this legacy. in this light, i would like to see concrete steps taken as soon as possible to re-establish the ties between the united states and europe. i also hope for closer cooperation based on trust, respect for agreements and predictability, and not on the basis of unforeseen unilateral actions, as we have seen with the iran nuclear deal or actions detrimental to the middle east peace process. but a successful partnership is certainly about equal conditions of cooperation. the eu must therefore also strengthen its strategic autonomy by pursuing a common foreign policy as closely coordinated as possible both towards the us and towards other key players such as russia and china.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, instead of the istanbul convention, it should be called the trojan convention, because it is like the attractive trojan horse, but it is coming to invade our judicial systems. the important aim of protecting victims of domestic violence is followed by the concept of a gender perspective. it literally says that "the structural nature of violence against women is gender-based". i mean, the woman is a victim because she's a woman. and therefore, that man for being man is an abuser. this conditions the suspicion against the man permanently. but the man who does not rape, is a rapist; the man who does not kill, is a murderer; the man who does not abuse, is a bully; the man who does not humiliate, is a coward. this only pits men and women against each other and also destroys the fundamental right of equality and non-discrimination. attacking this foundation destroys our judicial systems, as has happened in spain, where an unjust law of gender violence has deprived men of another fundamental right such as the presumption of innocence, determining in advance their guilt. it has also given women a supremacy that has made relationships in our environment rare, blurring what is criminal and what is not. for example, today it's a crime to say a compliment. as you can see, it's a poisoned gift that doesn't help victims of violence and it does break our society. don't be fooled by that. ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, whether this instrument has solved violence against women. no, you didn't, did you? because it's not about ratifying conventions but strengthening the values that were the foundation of this house.
even though i've gone beyond time, i wanted to give you this time because i understand the gravity of the situation and the conversation we're having. i now turn to commissioner helena dalli to close this discussion.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank manon aubry for this. certainly even one death is one death too many. this goes to show how much more we still have to do in order to eradicate this scourge from all our societies. no society is free from the scourge of violence against women. again, i reiterate my thanks for your support for everything we are attempting to do to combat this reality. as pina picierno rightly pointed out, this is barbarism versus civilisation. she put it exactly as it is because what you have demonstrated, manon, is barbarism. it’s not civilisation. as pina also pointed out, this is about men. when we speak among ourselves here, among women, we are speaking to the converted. we all know what the problem is. some of us are victims. so it would have been good had we had some male speakers during this session, but i am sure that they are listening and i am sure that there are many men – i know many men – who want to fight this. but, as i said, it would have been good had they been vocal about it in this particular session. and, yes, as maría soraya rodríguez ramos put it, silence is complicity. so at no point must we stop working on this reality. sylwia spurek, i said that we are working on the ratification and simultaneously we are working on legislation. as you know, we are committed to this and this is in our gender equality strategy, which we presented last march. so of course we are committed to this and we shall keep our promise, but obviously we also need your support. again, as manon aubry said, gender-based violence is not only about being physically beaten by your partner. there are many other forms of violence which some women don’t even realise, like the examples you mentioned –this is violence against you. there could be psychological violence, there could be financial violence and there could be other things, which the me too movement has highlighted and worked upon. the world started to realise then that many things happen in life to women and that women don’t speak up. until they did speak up, which is a good thing, but of course there’s so much that we have to do in this area of policy. we are committed. we will keep our promise. we have been saying how this year has been a challenging year, especially for women facing violence. i therefore count on this parliament’s support to put in place an instrument that helps prevent violence against women and domestic violence, protects victims and prosecutes perpetrators. there is no time, nor any excuse, to roll back on gender equality and on women’s rights. i thank you again for your participation in this debate today and i thank you heartily for your support. i know that you are with us on this and we shall continue fighting until we don’t come here to this parliament with lists of women who have been killed in these situations. (applause)
in writing. the istanbul convention is the only real measure, so far, that if properly implemented would make significant progress in protecting women and girls from violence. violence against women has always been a major issue, but it has become even more so during the pandemic. we hear constantly about cases of violence against women who were forced to live with their abusers during this long quarantine period. not all member states have been able to ensure that women who have experienced violence have access to safe shelter and a place of residence where they are safe. this includes not only women but also children who are subjected to physical or psychological violence, which causes immense and often irreversible damage. we welcome the ep's initiative to dedicate its premises to women who are victims of violence. we have thus sent a clear message that protecting women from violence is a european priority. it is still difficult to understand that some member states have not ratified the istanbul convention. this issue is on the commission's work programme for the coming year. we very much hope that the commission will act decisively to persuade member states to ratify this convention as soon as possible, so that we can effectively protect women, girls and children from violence and ensure their safety.
in writing. the pandemic has exacerbated pre-existing inequalities, including gender disparity, with women more at risk of suffering the severe economic and social effects of the crisis. domestic and gender-based violence crimes have also increased dramatically: the united nations has called this increase a veritable shadow pandemic, to which europe is far from immune. the international day for the elimination of violence against women takes on a new significance this year, making it even more urgent to take action and to develop the necessary social, cultural and regulatory instruments to put an end to such a serious violation of fundamental human rights. the call for the eu to complete the accession procedure to the istanbul convention and for those member states which have not yet done so to ratify it must therefore be strongly reiterated. the convention is the first instrument at european level to introduce binding measures specifically dedicated to the prevention of gender-based and domestic violence, the protection of victims, and the punishment of perpetrators of these crimes. full eu accession to the convention would ensure a more coherent regulatory framework, strengthen support and assistance to victims, and improve data collection, which is essential in the fight against a still too underestimated phenomenon.
in writing. the istanbul convention does not protect women from domestic violence, it is a cover for the imposition of the new ideology that gender is not a biological but a social characteristic. for me, there are only two genders, male and female. i can't possibly agree that there's a third, fifth or tenth gender and that these are social constructs. our children need to know what is normal and what the true roles of man and woman are, that the family is made up of a man and a woman. the istanbul convention is a trojan horse that, under the guise of fighting violence against women, promotes dangerous feminist ideas. the convention does not help victims of violence, but attacks our traditions, values and beliefs about the family and the relationship between man and woman. countries that do not want to ratify it should not be condemned or pressured to accept it. in bulgaria, there is a decision of the constitutional court which declares that the convention is contrary to our constitution and i believe that europe must respect this decision.
in writing. despite the progress made in recent decades, gender-based violence remains one of the most serious human rights violations in the european union. according to the latest studies, one in three women in the european union has been a victim of this type of violence. the existence of this phenomenon, which is rooted in inequality between the sexes, is unacceptable in today's society. the european union has therefore made this challenge a priority, stating that it will do all it can to combat this phenomenon and to protect its victims. the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women (the 'istanbul convention') is the first legally binding international instrument on preventing and combating violence against women and girls at international level. the convention will finally provide an integrated european framework, ensuring a common and coordinated approach in this field. gender-based violence is a phenomenon that must be treated with zero tolerance. we must support any initiative which promotes its eradication, as is the case with the istanbul convention.
in writing. – ending violence against women means that we fight with all possible instruments and strong legislation for the right of every woman and girl to live a life free of violence. when i say we, i mean we all, together, at all levels, in all spheres of society, together. every single eu member state must make sure that laws are implemented to insure the protection and assistance victims require. the istanbul convention is one instrument among others. it is politically driven with the introduction of the gender ideology and in many cases sets lesser standards than the legal instruments already existing. furthermore, the istanbul convention does not guarantee the end of violence against women. it is decisive governmental action that makes the difference and that is the case in hungary. numbers speak for themselves and each day we see the situation improve without ratifying the convention. equality is an essential principle enshrined in our european values and we all must ensure this becomes a reality for all our citizens, men and women, boys and girls. we need targeted actions that address the roots problems and adapt to the reality in member states, and address the associated problems such as poverty and exclusion.
in writing. – the istanbul convention constitutes an essential legal basis for the protection of women against violence and questioning this major treaty, or slowing down its ratification, is a worrying alert and a serious setback for women's rights. we have constantly called on the national, local and regional authorities to set up awareness-raising, prevention and protection mechanisms to put an end to violence against women. we must remain at the forefront of the fight against domestic violence. it concerns all of us. it is not a private matter, but a public matter. that is why we call on the member states to do their utmost to guarantee women's rights within the framework of the istanbul convention. many governments are concentrating on health measures aimed at combating the covid pandemic while ignoring the safety of women. the quarantine has isolated victims from their support networks, making it difficult for victims to get immediate help / justice or escape from the abusive situation. the member states must ensure that women have a right to live a life free from violence, including at home, and action must be taken to ensure that essential services are in place, and able to function, even in times of crisis.
before the opening of the first voting session today i would like to give the floor to mr markus ferber pursuant to rule 59 (4) on the referral back to the interinstitutional negotiating committee regarding his report on the amendment of directive 2014/65/eu the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. you've already planned everything. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states.
mr ferber, your request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal. we will now open the first voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from now, 13.00 to 14.00. 15. the the same voting method as used during the last partsessions will be used. all votes will be cast by roll call. i declare the first voting session open. you have until 14. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. (time at which the hearing was adjourned: 13. the 02) other
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on hungarian interference in the media in slovenia and north macedonia (2020/2840 (rsp)). i would remind members that there will be no 'catch the eye' or 'blue card' questions in any debate at this part-session. interventions are planned from our liaison offices in the member states.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for including this topic on the plenary agenda. the commission attaches great importance to freedom of expression, media pluralism and freedom of the media in the eu member states as well as in the eu candidate countries and potential candidates. free and pluralistic media is essential to democracy. it helps citizens hold to account those in power and allow them to make informed electoral choices and fend off disinformation and attempts to manipulate the democratic debate and interfere in elections. it also helps ensure that a plurality of views can be expressed and heard in the democratic debate. this is why the commission will include measures to strengthen media freedom and pluralism in the upcoming european democracy action plan, alongside measures targeted to fighting disinformation and ensure free and fair elections. while the measures presented in the action plan will in a large proportion address threats to democracy in the eu, the plan will also have a strong international dimension. the commission already supports media freedom and pluralism through a variety of initiatives within the scope of its competences. the media pluralism monitor, drawn up by the independent centre for media pluralism and media freedom and co-financed by the commission, examines threats and risks to media pluralism in the eu and selected candidate countries and potential candidates. media freedom and pluralism is also part of the commission’s annual rule of law report. the 2020 report adopted in september covers all 27 member states, including hungary and slovenia. the report examines a number of issues relevant for media freedom and pluralism, including transparency of media ownership, state advertising and political control of the media. concerning north macedonia, the commission and the eu delegation are following the developments in the media sector in the country very closely. the commission reports on these issues in its regular enlargement packages, including in its latest 2020 report on north macedonia. this report assessed that greater transparency on media ownership and possible illegal media concentration is required. in accordance with the division of competences between the european union and its member states, matters regarding the application of electoral laws are the responsibility of the member state authorities and it is for the competent national administrative and judicial authorities to ensure compliance with applicable eu law and relevant standards. as a part of the electoral package issued by the commission in september 2018, the commission asked the member states, in line with their applicable rules, to encourage and facilitate the transparency of paid online political advertisements and communications. national and european political parties, foundations and campaign organisations were asked to provide such transparency. the law in many member states, including slovenia and hungary, regulates transparency in campaigning. concerning the online platforms’ role, the major online platforms that are signatories to the self-regulatory code of practice on disinformation have committed to provide transparency and public disclosure around online political advertising. democracy is a common value of the european union. the functioning itself of our union is founded on the principle of representative democracy. elections in europe shall be conducted according to the highest democratic standards. you can count on the commission’s vigilance on these important matters in line with our competence. the aim will be to counter disinformation and to adapt to evolving threats and manipulations, as well as to support free and independent media.
on behalf of the ppe group. respected ! we are talking about a question that was raised with the sole purpose of interfering in the internal affairs and discrediting the slovenian government. the absurdity is that it is based on information from some obscure slovenian web portal with suspicious and uncertain ownership, known for attacks on the center-right government and journalists who have already been indicted by the press honor court. in slovenia we have a serious problem with the media environment, which has been completely unbalanced for thirty years. the monopolies that have been formed in all areas, from the economy to the judiciary to the media, during this time, are in the hands of the left. this prevents the implementation of democratic processes in the country. the national broadcasting system is a particular problem, and one would expect it to be independent, but unfortunately it is not. dominant media in slovenia represent 90% of the media space. those that are owned by the slovenians are in the hands of the left-wing elite of tajikistan, who use them to carry out their political agenda. and their power is immense. with a few bright exceptions, objective journalism in slovenia is unfortunately a myth. they don't write about stories that don't fit their agenda. there is a lot of cover-up and biased reporting, so those few non-left and independent media are really of great importance for slovenia. the european commission also notes a high degree of ownership opacity. so change is needed and it doesn't mean destroying independent media. on the contrary, they are an attempt to make the media space better, more independent, transparent and balanced. unfortunately, this case is a clear proof of how even in the european parliament slovenian socialists abuse the media for political struggle. i'll be followed by two former slovenian journalists with a wealth of experience in the unbalanced media landscape. you were part of it, and i have no doubt that you will use all your strength to defend the monopolies in which you operated.
on behalf of the s&d group. - the commissioner is respected! i'm afraid that's the reality of our world. i'm sorry, but my colleague has once again tarnished my country and all those who disagree with her. that was not the purpose of this discussion. we've asked you five specific questions, contributed by investigative journalists. why are these so important? if it is true that hungarian companies close to hungarian prime minister orban's inner circle, say 4 million euros, financed media purchases in north macedonia in the run-up to the elections in support of former macedonian prime minister gruevski, who later obtained asylum in hungary, this could be a gross interference in the democratic processes of the countries. half a million hungarian money was also allegedly transferred to the accounts of two slovenian media houses close to the currently ruling sds. a parliamentary committee was set up to investigate the case, but unfortunately, the government changed and the investigation was stopped. my concern is that - even with the recent sale of a slovenian media house to a hungarian tv house - it is about the involvement of the hungarian political leadership in the media and democratic processes of my country. if it's proven, it's highly inadmissible. freedom of the press and the sovereignty of our countries are not for sale. nowhere and never.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the 42 minutes that are supposed to be devoted to this debate are unfortunately too short to say what is wrong with this area. we were just discussing yesterday that the situation of media freedom in the union has deteriorated. and most of the issues raised yesterday can be seen in hungarian interference in the media in north macedonia and slovenia. moreover, it is no longer a secret that the slovenian government is trying to transform slovenia into an illiberal society without a public mandate. orban's way, you know. the attacks on the public media, the threat to their funding and the running of a parallel party media landscape, which is apparently financed by orban's circle, are just three of the many attempts to usurp power by methods that violate the union's fundamental values. the commission should therefore, in my view, also monitor many other moves by our government, because the actions of the largest party are, in fact, a problem for the whole union. i think we are all aware of this, as we are also aware that the union has in the past been naively delaying action for too long until one such problem has got out of hand. and that's where things really get out of hand. but we have the tools, you know. but you also know what else we need to do to resist this kind of disruption to our democracies. courage and political will. so this time i really don't want general answers, but a concrete definition of the problem. and most of all, i want action.
in writing. i welcome the first eu strategy for the equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, non-binary, intersex and queer (lgbtiq) people. although some progress has been made in this area, discrimination and stigmatisation of lgbtiq people in the eu is still very much present. this requires a coordinated and, above all, codified effort to maintain and improve the status quo, as well as to improve and standardise the parameters for determining the degree of discrimination as a condition for equality. the strategy brings a series of long-term measures in the field of legislation, broadening the definition of hate crimes, regulating the issue of parenting in cross-border relationships, protecting the rights of indigenous families and combating discrimination. above all, the new strategy ensures that the rights and diversity of lgbtiq people are more consistently taken into account in the design and implementation of all eu policies. while the implementation of equality for lgbtiq people is a competence of the member states, the eu has an important role to play in coordinating action, monitoring progress, providing support and, above all, in promoting and promoting progressive social policies. to achieve true equality and non-discrimination in line with the eu's fundamental principles and values, we need structural change, with the eu at the forefront. the new strategy is a step in that direction.
in writing. protecting minorities and million signatures for europe's diversity is only the fifth of a total of six citizens' initiatives to have succeeded in meeting the formal conditions set by the lisbon treaty for its examination by the european commission and also in resolving before the eu court of justice the dispute over the latter's competence to accept it. the added value of this instrument is therefore best reflected in the present case, not only in enhancing the voice of citizens in shaping and directing policies at eu level and thus reducing the sense of democratic deficit, but also in bringing to the agenda of the eu institutions issues that affect people's daily lives but are politically sensitive and therefore not supported by individual member states or (european) political groups. the protection of minorities is one of the eu's fundamental values, as set out in article 3 of the treaty on european union. as such and as part of the corpus of universal human rights, minority rights can never be an internal matter of the member states. at european level, it is necessary to harmonise at least minimum standards for the protection of minority rights and to link mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of minority rights inseparably with instruments for the protection of human rights and the rule of law. i expect the european parliament to take a clear position in this respect in the further phases of the initiative.
mr. president, please! the right to water is a fundamental human right. because without water, there is no life and no sustainable development of society. therefore, concern for water resources is also an awareness of the importance of intergenerational cooperation and solidarity. i am proud that four years ago, slovenia, symbolically at the same time as the ratification of the paris agreement, included the right to drinking water in its constitution. water resources and access to them were primarily protected as a public good in the administration of the state. they are not, as such, commodities that could be appropriated and traded. in the light of my political experience, i welcome the legislative achievements of the union. i encourage the commission and the member states to make further efforts to achieve the objectives set out in the european union legislative framework more consistently, more rapidly and more carefully, including with the resources earmarked for this heading in the next multiannual financial framework. water resources are also becoming one of the key factors in ensuring international peace and security. as in many other places, we can only lead by example and not by hypocrisy in the european union if we ask others to do things we do not do ourselves.
