i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 december 2019.
on behalf of parliament and myself, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families and friends of the victims of the tragic crash of the ukrainian airliner, which was shot down shortly after taking off from the iranian capital tehran on wednesday, killing all 176 passengers and crew on board. we trust that a thorough, accurate and transparent investigation will ensure justice for the victims. i invite you to observe a minute of silence in their memory. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, welcome to the house. i hope you all had a good holiday.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 9 january 2020. the following amendments were tabled. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda for thursday: the title of the debate on 'burundi, in particular the case of imprisoned journalists' is replaced by 'burundi, in particular freedom of expression'. (parliament adopted the resolution) the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, sweden has serious problems with violence connected to organised crime, and the city of malmö is particularly affected. bombings and shootings are now part of everyday life in malmö. last year, the danish government introduced border controls against sweden to protect danish citizens from swedish gang members. this is a unique decision. no other government in europe has so clearly pointed out gang members in a neighbouring country as the reason to have border controls. the ppe believes that the escalating violence in malmö and copenhagen should be mentioned in the title of the debate on cross-border crime, and we ask for a roll call vote on this matter. the fact that the s&d group doesn’t want the problems in malmö to be mentioned in the title is deeply regrettable. let’s take the chance in this parliament and change this today. we have serious problems to handle and it’s important for sweden, denmark and europe. (applause)
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. australia is currently experiencing the hottest summer on record - and the driest in the country. the average temperature for the month of december was just over 4 degrees above the national average - a whopping 1.7 degrees above the previous record set in december, and this old record was broken just last year. this is exactly what climate scientists have warned about; a warmer climate leads, of course, to an increased risk of heatwaves, but also an increased risk of droughts, and therefore an increased risk of wildfires. with the completely inadequate climate policies that we are currently pursuing in the eu, the us, china and, specifically, australia, we are on track for 3 to 4 degrees of warming by the end of the century. and this summer will be considered a normal summer. is this what we want to bring from europe? we have to do much, much more now. not by 2030. not 2050, but now, this year.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on cross-border organised crime and its impact on free movement (2019/2985(rsp)). i remind you that it is possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, so we go from one difficult topic to another one, but i believe that this debate is really very timely because the threat of organised crime in the european union is at record levels. organised crime affects the life and safety of european citizens. it affects europe’s economy and society’s trust in public institutions. the 2017 european union serious and organised crime threat assessment report stated that more than 5 000 organised crime groups are under investigation in europe, which is a rise of more than 50% compared to the numbers from 2013. their profits are estimated at eur 110 billion per year in the european union. however, only one percentage point of these profits is confiscated. the challenge is to build a holistic and comprehensive approach with the legislative and operational instruments to tackle the modus operandi of organised crime groups, including one of its key enablers, corruption. at the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) meeting in december 2019, dedicated to the fight against corruption and organised crime, the members of this house called for a strategy on organised crime and corruption, as european problems call for european solutions. therefore, i very much welcome the timely organisation of this debate. in 2008, the eu adopted a legally binding instrument requiring member states to outlaw participation in a criminal organisation. however, by the time it was adopted, some shortcomings had already been identified, such as the lack of harmonisation in the definition of the offence (participation in a criminal organisation), which, in practice, means that a number of member states do not criminalise the mere participation in a criminal organisation, but require a specific link to a criminal offence. as policymakers, it is our duty to close loopholes in existing legislation. an external study on organised crime, and also on this issue, will be launched very soon. the approach of ‘following the money’ should be part of any investigation into organised crime. the directive on law enforcement access to financial information entered into force on 1 august last year. additional measures may be needed to enable law enforcement authorities to carry out effective cross-border investigations. interconnection as well as access for law enforcement is a key component for investigations into organised crime, and this avenue should be pursued in the future. asset recovery offices have been created in all member states, and the directive on freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime, adopted in 2014, harmonises these rules across the european union. a new regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders that will apply as of december 2020 complements the legal framework. however, we need to do more. a confiscation rate of 1% is just much too low. the commission will therefore present a report on the implementation of the confiscation directive to help reflect on the need for stronger provision on enhancing asset tracing, freezing and confiscation. the commission has already analysed non-conviction-based confiscation provisions in the member states in a document presented in the libe committee last september. the europol 2017 report also highlighted the way corruption enables the crime. the 2019 midterm review showed the considerable increase in top-level organised crime activities in the european union. it is essential that member states are well equipped to fight against corruption. the capacity to fight corruption has been identified as one of the key aspects of the new rule of law review cycle to be developed by the commission in 2020. the european labour authority, mandated to facilitate the free movement of workers across the eu and to support the commission and member states in the application and enforcement of european law, will also create synergies and work together with other eu agencies, such as europol and eurojust, in the fight against organised crime and trafficking in human beings. the commission fully supports europol’s approach to dismantling top—level organised crime groups by removing the key players, the so-called high—value targets. such an approach fits with a desire to deprive criminals of their illegally gained profits. it is also important for europol to stress that any high-value targets initiative should be complementary to the eu policy cycle on serious and organised crime. the fight against illicit drugs will be a priority for the next commission. according to the latest report by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and europol, we are currently experiencing the worst drug crisis in our history. the volume of cocaine and heroin introduced in the eu is at an all-time high, and in parts of europe, synthetic drug production is growing. as the current eu drug strategy is ending, the commission will consider what future action is needed in view of this alarming situation. empact, the eu policy cycle for serious and international organised crime, has changed the way the member states cooperate and tackle organised crime together. for the period 2018-2021, 10 crime priorities are being jointly addressed. these include cybercrime, drug trafficking, facilitation of illegal immigration, and trafficking in human beings, among others. the numbers are staggering. in 2018, on trafficking in human beings, more than 1 200 investigations were initiated, with 7 249 suspects reported and 6 057 victims identified. another example i would refer to is excise fraud, where over eur 229 million of tax evasion has been prevented. so we see that the challenge is enormous and that this is really a european problem, a european challenge, to which we need to find the answers together. therefore, i would really like to thank madam president for tabling this issue for plenary debate. i will be listening very carefully to the views of honourable members and will come back to you with concrete proposals in the future.
for the ppe group. commissioner šefčovič, this is mrs talman! violence linked to organised crime is a serious problem in europe, and in my home country, sweden, the situation has escalated. last year, 40 people were shot and killed, we've had 200 bombings. malmö has been particularly affected, where for example a woman was shot dead while carrying her own child in her arms. blasts and shootings are now so common in sweden that the danish government has been forced to take the decision to introduce border controls against sweden to protect its own citizens. this is not the time to deny or minimize the problems we see with gang crime in sweden. it is now time to make sure that we can do everything we can, nationally of course, but also at european level, to be able to contribute to increasing security in sweden and to ensure that the free movement between sweden and denmark will also be able to function in the future. it is tragic to see how, above all, social democratic meps have tried to downplay this and were not prepared to discuss it. i think we need to be more humble than that. this is a problem for sweden, but it is also a problem for the whole region and europe. i would therefore ask the commission to come forward with three proposals: to give europol more resources, to focus more on sweden, to stop drugs and arms more. secondly, to give member states the right to expel criminals at any time, even if they are eu citizens, and to increase the exchange of information between european police authorities. together we can do more to increase security throughout europe and in sweden.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, what is it? organised crime in europe and worldwide has become increasingly complex and cross-border. that is why we need the cross-border solutions. we social democrats take this development very seriously. we will be even better able to combat crime and its causes in our countries together. the situation is serious in several of europe's major cities. malmö is a city that i know very well, a great city, but also a city that has been hit by violence and shootings. that's the way it is. but we also see that the swedish government's efforts are making a difference. the latest statistics from the police show a decrease in shootings. and it's important work. the latest act in sweden was actually in mr tobe's home town, stockholm, and that is why it is so important that we focus on all the cities of europe. all member states have a responsibility. cooperation is needed, just as between sweden and denmark. we need more europol, we need more police cooperation, where we can exchange information between our countries. we social democrats will always take up the fight against organised crime. our citizens should be able to live in safety in our cities.
for the renew group. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, what is it? safety is freedom. when you don't feel safe, your existence shrinks. in my home country of sweden, we have seen with sadness and anger the terrible murders linked to the growth of gang crime last year - including a mother who was shot dead in the street while carrying her baby. ensuring the safety and security of people is a key task for each member state. crime must be fought, crime must be prevented. but we have long underestimated the flow of crime, arms and drugs between member states and across eu borders. that's not how we're supposed to do it. the eu's free movement should enhance freedom, not be abused by those who want to destroy it. now we need more cross-border cooperation. the current police cooperation within the eu, europol, is far too weak and lacks operational power. if we are serious about stifling the flow of crossborder crime, the eu needs to get some real muscle. the liberal group therefore wants europol to be developed into a european fbi, which will be operational and able to take its own action when gangs operate across borders. i would like to say to the epp and to the moderates, who have initiated this debate, that this is urgent and important. but now it's up to the evidence. if we are to take the debate on gang crime to the eu level, we must also talk about the solutions at the eu level. it will require resources, and it will require new ways of working together. i hope that all parties here tonight are ready to really step up cooperation on crossborder crime so that this debate is not just filled with empty words. this is about people's freedom and people's lives.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. the danish social democratic government has introduced border controls against sweden. they are concerned about sweden-based militant islamism and organised crime, after a danish government building was bombed. the swedish social democratic government cannot even expel terror-stamped imams, and is worried above all about bad publicity from more than 235 bombings in 2019 alone. last night in sweden small it again: a bomb in stockholm, one in uppsala. madam president, i would like to thank you. i want everyone back home in sweden to know that the swedish social democrats' focus here today, in this debate on crossborder crime, was not that bombings have become as common per capita in sweden as in the drug cartels' mexico, but that malmö should not be included in the debate. my advice to social democrats who are ashamed of what they have done is to go to copenhagen. listen to the danes, learn from them; the danes whom you have for so many years looked down upon and accused of xenophobia. maybe you can learn something from the raid. but above all: get the migration in order when even the population register in sweden has failed, then we know that it is bad. stop pressuring the crime prevention council to correct reports to fit your picture of reality. these are supposed to be independent authorities. stop listening to left-wing criminologists. no more low-efficiency response to car burners. let the cops show the gang who's boss. give the customs muscle. punish gang-related crime without mercy. clean house with radical imams who hate sweden, but above all: get rid of your false image of sweden and start caring about the reality of the swedish people. if you can't handle it, you should resign.
madam president, i would like to thank you. organized crime is now one of europe's most serious problems, and sweden has unfortunately become a warning example. the situation in the malmö region is now so serious that denmark has introduced border controls with sweden. of course, this affects many people. but i would like to highlight the small businessmen, who are often particularly vulnerable to this crime. i have met with farmers and builders who are targeted by the international theft leagues on a weekly basis. this includes restaurant and shop owners who are exposed to this gang crime. the gangs must be fought with all their might, and i hope the eu can help, because sweden's social democratic government has lost control of this. we need to increase customs duties, we need to expand europol, and we need to ensure that police cooperation is developed at european level, because free movement should not apply to criminals.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in recent months we have debated in this plenary serious events in several eu member states, including the criminalisation of sex education in poland; we have debated the murder of a journalist and corruption in malta. but when we moderates try to bring up the serious shootings and bombings that are taking place in sweden and malmö, the socialists over there stop it. i can't see this as anything other than being embarrassed and trying to minimize the problem. i would like to appeal to the european commission, which is here, that we must make a major effort to increase security in europe and in sweden, because the government in sweden has lost control. the police in sweden need help from europol and increased police cooperation, and i do not want to wake up one more day like i did this morning, when i saw that another serious bombing had happened, this time in my home town of stockholm, but also in the city next door: uppsala. the situation has escalated completely and we need help.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for a very good introduction, commissioner dalli. the principle of equal pay for equal work between women and men has been in the eu treaties since 1957. but here we are 63 years later, and women still earn less than men for the same work. i think it's a shame that we haven't come any further. that we haven't made a bigger effort to make sure that we earn the same amount, whether we're women or men. and it is, of course, a shame that we do not live up to the eu's fundamental values of equality, and that we do not comply with the treaty. we have a mission to complete. we know the explanations. but it is political will that will make it possible for us to change. i wonder what you think i should tell my daughters? is it reasonable for me to tell them that when you leave, well-educated, in the workforce, you will earn and work for free for two months, compared to men? we have to change this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to ask you to excuse me. thank you very much for speaking. the commission report says that the 16% difference in average earnings between women and men in the eu is mainly due to gender discrimination. in sweden, one of the most gender-equal countries in the world, the responsible authority has found that there is no evidence that the gender gap in sweden is due to discrimination, but mainly to factors such as occupational choice, position, personal characteristics and the number of hours worked. the goal of an equal and free society can never be an exactly equal outcome, for that would require totalitarian methods and disregard for the individual's right to choose. it should instead be characterised by equal rights, obligations and the opportunity to make their own life choices. i am of course opposed to pay differentials as a result of discrimination. but the work for gender equality must be based on facts and cleansed of ideologically exaggerated myths.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam, but it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam. it is another failed elite project, because the goal is clear: to transfer more power to the eu. however, such a transfer of power lacks popular support. the uk's withdrawal should have been a wake-up call, as should the euro crisis and the migration crisis. we want the eu to be a flexible cooperation between sovereign states. an intergovernmental conference with the member states in the driver's seat is the way the treaties provide for amending the eu treaties. it is constitutionally and democratically legitimate, so let us walk that path. i am concerned, however, that many will not respect the processes enshrined in the treaties, but will push for this conference, but trust that you have an opposition in us.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for speaking and thank you to the prime minister for presenting the presidency programme. we have a very important time ahead of us. this is where we set the direction for the next five years. for me, as a social democrat, it is absolutely crucial that we focus on creating security for ordinary people. the eu has an important role to play here, not least in the field of health and safety at work. today we have a situation where 4 000 europeans die at work every year, a situation where 80 000 europeans die of cancer every year because of exposure at work. these are basically sick figures, and that is why i was pleased when the council decided in december to call for a new strategy for health and safety at work with a zero vision for both fatalities and work-related cancers. so let's work together over the next six months to make this a reality. because even if it was not a priority in your opening speech, i hope that the croatian presidency will put health and safety at work high on the agenda and, above all, ensure that we have a new health and safety strategy. the workers of europe expect us to deliver on this issue.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank our commissioners, mr timmermans and mr dombrovskis, for their very ambitious initiatives. many of the people of europe today feel a great fear of the future and of the challenges we face, and i share that anxiety. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission's communication on a stronger social europe is therefore very important. we social democrats have been driving the social pillar the work actually started in sweden in gothenburg in 2017 , and the pillar will be an important step on the road to a more social europe. we must now raise the ambition of jobs for both women and men, jobs with good working conditions, education and social protection. we need wages throughout the eu that people can actually live on. we must have decent wages, and although i, as a swede, would very much like to see the nordic model developed throughout the eu, we will follow this work. we are looking forward to a fairer and more social europe. that's the essence of making people's lives better. so let us get down to business right away.
madam president, i would like to thank you. of course, we need a fair transition. there is a lot of good in this proposal. it's just that it's not happening in 25 or 30 years, but actually here and now, in this decade. there are also a couple of things in the proposal that need to be made much, much clearer. firstly, the proposal for a just transition fund does not actually require that the countries receiving grants actually meet the eu's climate objectives. financial support for coal-dependent regions, such as poland, must of course lead to a phase-out of fossil fuels and a clear transition to renewable energy. secondly, and not least importantly, people must be at the centre of the transformation. a just transition is about creating new jobs and ensuring sustainable development for the people who will eventually lose their current jobs as fossil fuels are phased out. if we don't put people at the center of climate policy, we're never going to get climate change right, not by 2030 or 2050.
mr president, qasem soleimani was, in every sense of the word, a terrorist and i believe no one at this plenary is mourning. however, it is hard to fully comprehend the potential consequences of the strike. the responses during the upcoming weeks and months will determine which direction this already fragile region will take in the near future. prior to the strikes, protesters from beirut to baghdad filled the streets due to their frustration with the iranian islamist regime meddling in their internal affairs, wishing that they could determine their own nation’s destiny. iraq remains the country most affected by iranian meddling and it needs our support. mostly, it needs stability through sovereignty, and as the chair of the delegation to iraq, i would ask you, mr borrell, to provide us with details on future eu initiatives regarding iraq and on how the external action service intends to proceed with our current commitments in the region.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the high representative! last wednesday, iran shot down a ukrainian passenger plane. all 176 people on board were killed. our thoughts are with the victims and their families at this difficult time. seventeen of the dead were residents of my home country of sweden. i expect the eu to condemn the attack more forcefully and to demand that the shooting down be thoroughly investigated with full international transparency in particular from the affected countries and that those responsible be brought to justice. the relatives have a right to know what happened, and they have a right to compensation. and let me be clear: now that protests against the regime in iran are spreading in the country, the eu needs to be more resolute in its support for the country's democratic forces and reforms.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, i think we can all agree that the european union's power on the international stage must be based on the defence of human rights. but how can the union have the moral authority to demand respect for human rights from the states of the world if there are states within the union that are not able to respect these same rights on its territory? human rights are economic and social rights, of course, but also civil and political rights. oriol junqueras is not sitting here today because spain does not respect his political rights, and i myself am in exile in belgium today because spain does not respect the human rights of the catalan independence leaders. turkey, russia and china have recently said that they follow spanish standards. when the european union looks the other way when a member state is clearly violating human rights, it loses all ability to ask others to respect what its own states are not able to respect. (the speaker refuses to answer a question)
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are concerned about the decline of democracy globally, the increasing repression of free media and dissent, and the fact that violence against women is the most common violation in the world. meanwhile, china and russia are moving their positions forward. that is when the eu and europe are needed more than ever. i want the european commission to prioritise three important things: to impose swift sanctions on those individuals who commit serious violations of human rights and freedoms; to ensure that the democratic standards in the eu are high for those who want to join the eu, but that we give them hope that their future is in the eu and not elsewhere; to ensure that the eu takes greater responsibility for strengthening the rights of women and girls around the world. the eu was once built on the idea of protecting human rights and democracy. let us always act and show that we will always take it seriously, for it is not something we can take for granted.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when i came to brussels about five years ago, i had a fairly clear idea of what the common foreign and security policy would entail. it was basically an intergovernmental cooperation in which we could work together, but where sweden and other countries could pursue an independent foreign policy. i soon realized that this house was trying to counter that concept with all its might. instead, they wanted to give the eu military power, and it was a kind of alliance between federalist and anti-american forces that drove that development. the aim was to transfer power in these policy areas to brussels as has happened in so many other areas. last year we read in the resolutions about european armed forces, now we read about strategic autonomy and how qualified majority voting should replace national vetoes. this is something that jeopardizes transatlantic cooperation and lacks popular support.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr borrell, please! a little less than 10 years ago, i remember the steps taken towards the light in the tunnel of the middle east and north africa; the light that would free the region, including libya, from dictatorship and oppression; the light that would bring peace, freedom and security. i myself visited the mena region several times during those years to show support for the democratic forces. i am fully convinced that peace in the world requires the freedom of all people. instead, an oppressive regime was replaced by another chaotic regime in libya, where democracy, human rights and the rule of law are still a dream. instead, the nightmare of oppression and fear has continued to be a reality. the situation in libya requires a formalised ceasefire, respected by all parties, so that constructive discussions on a long-term political solution can be held. i am convinced that the eu can play an even greater role here, a role that puts important principles at the centre: the democratic and human rights of the libyan people and a system based on ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commissioner! the problems facing europe are not solved by abandoning cooperation, by abandoning european cooperation. but it is not about creating a united states of europe either. instead, it's about focusing on the societal issues that require more responses. we need to fight terrorism and crossborder crime better together in europe. we need more of a common immigration policy. we need to ensure that we have a modern and effective climate policy, speak more with one voice on foreign policy and strengthen our defence work. this is what the conference on the future of europe should be about. not about how we look at electoral systems or how we should change the powers of our cooperation, but about political leadership that solves the social problems that europe faces. that is what will ensure that we get more support for european cooperation in the long term. now, let's not let the fringe of politics here in europe set the agenda, but let the voice of reason be the one that guides this. i am quite sure that we will then have strong support for what europe needs.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, in particular through the european union's climate action strategy. these are the very important questions that the debate on the future of europe should be about. a conference on the future of europe, where the young generation must also be addressed. i was pleased to hear today a lively debate in which several of our young, newly elected members of parliament have taken part in the debate on the future. it's good, it's good. the debate on the future must be about the key to strengthening europe. we must show commitment and determination. we must hold together a europe where we raise hopes, where we give the young generation hope for the future of europe.
mrs. talman, please. we do not have all the answers yet. today is a start of a journey, but this is europe's man on the moon moment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority'. but to promise a moon landing, in this case a carbon neutral continent, without telling how it will happen, what the consequences will be or even what the effects will be, that's not serious that's populism. investing in one thing means refraining from investing in another. to spend trillions on undefined climate action is to forgo investment in, for example, security, healthcare or other areas of technological development - the foundation for future growth and prosperity. the fact that you want to put down carbon-free nuclear power shows that in your quest for the moon you can't even take off your ideological shades. no, what the eu needs are politicians who take responsibility, set realistic targets and are clear about the consequences. that is why i am voting against the parliament's proposal today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what is the purpose of article 7 if the rights of citizens continue to be suppressed while the governments of other countries choose not to intervene? how serious must the situation become before the eu steps in? what will have to happen before the eu heads of state or government do what parliament demands? is the problem really that the governments of the member states are so afraid of being themselves audited? if that's the case, it's hypocrisy. the eu must act now, or we will all lose the trust that the electorate has placed in us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. orbán continues to intensify his attacks on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. while the eu has failed to move forward on the issue, the situation in the country has deteriorated drastically. if there were an eu prize for creativity, the fidesz government in hungary and their friends in pis in poland would win by a landslide for their creative ways of constantly breaking the eu's fundamental values and laws. it is clear that the article 7 procedure has come to a standstill. it is time to introduce a new common eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. at the same time, we must also move forward with strong proposals for sanctions. if member states refuse to respect the eu's core values, as set out in article 2, they shall also not be able to access the common financial support. our citizens will not continue to accept that eu money is misused and used to attack our common values.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the reopening of the prosecution of the czech prime minister for the misappropriation of eu funds is important. our taxpayers' money should not be used for fraud and deception. if you do, you should know that negative consequences lie just around the corner. but the problem is big. that is why it is important that we also talk about the big problem of corruption that exists in many parts of the eu. what the czech prime minister has done is unfortunately just one example. corruption, fraud and money laundering are common in many parts of the eu. we also know that it hinders development and human rights. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european commission takes its role as an auditor very seriously. i want to see a europe free from corruption and fraud. europe must be built on justice and community. our collective resources should be used for these purposes and not be pocketed by greedy and corrupt individuals. zero tolerance must be the goal here. it is the only way to maintain trust and keep the eu together.
author. – madam president, burundi is one of the poorest countries of the world and our very detailed draft joint resolution portrays the situation there in the time preceding the presidential and general elections. the situation of both human rights defenders and media representatives is really dire and we cannot imagine free elections without them being available for the general public, to present information, genuine, reasonable and reliable information. i thank my colleagues for the very good text of the resolution.
author. madam president, the political crisis in burundi is having a devastating impact on the burundian people, who are seeing their economic rights and fundamental rights violated. since 2015, these fundamental rights, such as the right to vote, have been challenged. people considered to be political opponents in the broad sense have been threatened, forced into exile, imprisoned and sometimes even killed without due process. the right to freedom of expression has also been undermined and the space for civil society and the media is increasingly restricted in this country. on 22 october 2019, christine kamikazi, agnès ndirubusa, térence mpozenzi and egide harerimana, four journalists from the iwacu group, as well as their driver adolphe masabarakiza were arrested and charged with complicity in the attack on state security. in addition, jean bigirimana, a journalist with the iwacu group, has been missing since july 2016. and in relation to these arrests and killings, there are systematic failures by the authorities which constitute a violation of the right to protection of citizens by the state. we strongly condemn the intimidation and arbitrary arrests. we call for the immediate release of the journalists in iwacu and anyone imprisoned for exercising their right to freedom of expression. in order to prevent the situation from escalating in the region, we also call on the african union to send its human rights observers to burundi and we call on the united nations to launch impartial investigations into those suspected of having committed human rights violations. we also call on the eu member states to provide financial assistance to civil society actors in burundi and on eu diplomats to ensure that the eu human rights guidelines are respected by observing and visiting the trials of political prisoners journalists and human rights defenders. finally, let us emphasize once again that there must be sanctions against burundi, targeted sanctions that have been decided by the council and which must not be lifted today: that would be a disastrous political message in relation to the situation in burundi.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. freedom of expression and an independent media are prerequisites for democracy and a free society. many of us here take seriously the fact that there is a downward trend in the world. according to the world press freedom index, the number of countries around the world that have a free press is declining. i am very concerned about this situation, and burundi is one of the countries where freedom of the media and the press, as well as civil society, are subject to great repression. threats and violence against human rights activists and journalists are becoming more common. the media is largely state-controlled. in october, four journalists and their driver were arrested while trying to do their jobs. the world cannot just stand by and watch these abuses happen every day around the world. we must act, we must increase the political pressure on burundi. burundi must ensure that it fulfils its international commitments and releases these journalists immediately. what can the eu do? we must support civil society and we must extend sanctions against those who commit human rights violations in burundi. it is about our opportunity and our responsibility to ensure that we have a world where human rights and democracy work and where nonviolence is fought.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i am grateful that we, the elected representatives of the european union, are paying attention to the situation in burundi and are not allowing it to go on in silence. the situation is critical and the persecution of journalists must end. the burundian government must release every journalist. the eu has a vital role to play. we can use our mechanisms and tools to put an end to this situation. and we greens call on all eu member states to support civil society organisations, journalists' associations and the women's rights movement in burundi. the eu must also work towards the implementation of the arusha agreement, so that it becomes a reality. the greens call on josep borrell to support the east african community in the burundi dialogues.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. earlier this year, a new coronavirus was confirmed, this time in china. the serious thing is that it can infect humans. a new virus always leads to anxiety and in some cases even panic. i therefore welcome the clear leadership that the who has taken, also with china, to stop the spread of the virus. it's good, it's good. it is important that the international community and the countries concerned are prompt and transparent with information and facts on the spread of infection. it is now very important that we and our member states, our various governments and ministers do everything we can to prevent an outbreak in europe. the importance of accurate and relevant information for all our citizens can never be underestimated. knowledge brings security, and knowledge leads to the right action and the right action. we have medical experts who say that europe's health care is good, but we must not sit back. we're going to do everything we can. the public health of our citizens is important, and that is where we have a responsibility.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. madam president, commissioner vălean, i would like to thank you for your reply. transitioning to a greener and more sustainable transport sector will be crucial to achieving our climate goals. by 2050, freight transport is expected to increase by 80% and passenger transport by 50%. at the same time, the eu is to achieve net zero emissions. it will not be enough to have taxes and levies on fossil fuels and on various types of emissions, but we will also have to present a positive vision of the green transition through investment. we need to invest in infrastructure. we need to invest in alternative fuels and ensure that a sustainable transition is possible in all modes of transport, be it road, air, rail or sea. i look forward to working with the commission in line with what you proposed in your work programme to expand the railway, increase the share of freight travelling by rail, expand the charging infrastructure to ensure the electrification of our road transport and to ensure that the eu also leads the transition from aviation to alternative fuels but also to electrify the shorter flight. transport is the lifeblood of our internal market. now it's got to be green, too.
madam president, i would like to thank you. europe is facing the future, a future that is about globalisation, increased digitalisation and, not least, the climate and environmental transition. we have great challenges, but we also have opportunities. the commission's programme points to a stronger social europe. it is a question of raising ambition, of doing so in the implementation of the social pillar. it's about the gender equality strategy. it's about setting up a child guarantee. at the same time, there are things i miss about the initiative. we need clearer texts on precarious employment and parttime work, especially for women. we need more initiatives for a good working environment and we need to strengthen social dialogue. the citizens of europe want us to deliver. we have a job to do, and we have to start now.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. the british flag has just been raised and the eu's biggest failure to date is soon a fact. a very large and important player and net contributor is leaving the eu, partly because of failed previous enlargements. brexit is not the only problem facing the eu, however. sweden, like many other member states, has problems with shadow societies, unemployment, wage dumping, crime and housing shortages. add to that an impending recession and political division. in a healthy organization, you would have stopped and learned some lessons, humbly analyzed and, not least, focused on the problems i just mentioned. madam president, i would like to ask my swedish colleagues a question: how do you justify this enlargement with two countries which have extensive problems of corruption, the economy and unemployment, when in the end it will be swedish citizens and taxpayers who will pay the price?
mr president, i would like to thank you. small and mediumsized enterprises are of course extremely important for our economy, and reducing bureaucracy and simplifying rules are important for their growth. let me be clear on one point, though. this work must never be done in such a way as to impair the rights of workers. the principle of 'one in, one out' introduced by the commission therefore makes me a little worried. the fact that all new rules are to be compensated by exempting companies, especially smes, from the corresponding eu regulations in the same areas does not work in, for example, the field of health and safety at work. the eu's work on health and safety at work must be more ambitious. new initiatives must be taken and they cannot be destroyed by the simultaneous abolition of existing legislation on health and safety at work. so let us not, in the next term, have the initiative we had in the last commission term, where we proposed that exemptions from the health and safety regulations should apply to companies with up to 250 employees. such proposals are totally unacceptable.
mr president, i would like to thank you. strengthening the conditions for small businesses is perhaps one of the most important tasks we have at the moment. europe is lagging behind in the global market, and therefore we need to put in place a strong policy programme to strengthen competitiveness. the commission has promised to introduce the principle of 'one in, one out'. for each new rule introduced, an old rule is deleted. this is a good first step, but in practice it means plus minus zero and it is not enough in the long run if the eu is to become the best in the world at business. i, and swedish businessmen, would like to ask the commission a question: why do you settle for plus or minus zero? we need to set a much bolder goal than the status quo. in addition to the 'one in, one out' principle, the epp group and i want to reduce the regulatory burden on small businesses by 30%. europe's small businessmen should know that i and the moderates stand with them against bureaucracy to strengthen the business climate.
madam president, i would like to thank you. brexit is a sad chapter in the history of europe. we need more cooperation, not less. in this way we ensure stability and peace on our continent - a continent where conflict and war once replaced each other. now that the nationalist forces in britain have had their dream fulfilled, it is up to us who believe in cooperation to ensure that we get a future-first agreement. we need to succeed in reaching an agreement that allows for good trade, but that is also in favour of the eu's internal market, protects the eu's legal order, does not thumb its nose at environmental and climate policy, and stands up for the rights of our workers and for fundamental freedoms. boris johnson can't eat his cake and have his cake. his lies have already caused too much damage. if he wants to ensure a good free trade agreement, he must also stand up to the demands i have just mentioned. to the young people of britain, who overwhelmingly voted to remain in the european union, i would like to say, finally: don't give up on me! there are many of us who look forward to a future where you will rule. our paths may cross again.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is important that the negotiations now take place on clear principles. firstly, we must negotiate as a union; parallel, bilateral negotiations cannot continue. secondly, any degree of access to our common market must be accompanied by corresponding compliance by the united kingdom. the future relationship, as many have already said, will be based on competition on equal terms, including labour and social standards. take the transportation industry, for example. in order to guarantee the continuation of transport between the eu and the uk, we need an agreement. without a deal, no transport, which would be a disaster, both for the eu and for the uk. at the same time, it must be noted that the united kingdom is no longer a member. for road transport, for example, it is not reasonable that the uk should still have the possibility of cabotage in the eu, and the possibility of transit through continental europe must be accompanied by full respect for the eu acquis.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – madam president, free trade is one of the best tools to lift people out of poverty. history proves that with all clarity. with this agreement, we ensure that vietnam can go forward on a path of inclusive growth, and also with this free trade agreement we set a very high standard as a comprehensive agreement with a developing country. and, as chair of the development committee, i’m very pleased that this agreement has a very dedicated chapter also on sustainable development, and this needs to be effectively implemented. i would also welcome the timetable from vietnam on when to ratify the outstanding core ilo conventions, and i urge both parties to make full use of the provisions in the agreement in order to contribute to strengthening human rights in vietnam and towards the sustainable development goals. i also urge the commission to work closely with civil society to ensure that growth in vietnam now also will strengthen environmental protection and labour rights. to conclude, the committee on development recommends that we give our consent to this agreement.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, honourable commissioner, members of parliament, europe stands strong for free trade. tomorrow we can make history. these are the most ambitioned agreements that the eu has ever negotiated with a developing country. there will be an economic win-win for both parties. the eu and vietnam are already important trading partners. this trade will continue, with or without agreements. but with these agreements, our trade will become more equitable, more predictable and more sustainable for the environment, for the people and for the climate. during the negotiation, vietnam has improved workers’ rights; 6 out of 8 ilo conventions have been signed; child labour has been significantly reduced. we know that some voices have been raised wanting to postpone tomorrow’s vote, as the democratic development in vietnam has not been enough, and yes, we wish that we could have seen much more progress when it comes to democracy and human rights. but we have to ask ourselves in this chamber: do we want to have a better chance to promote democracy without the agreement? let’s not make the reformists or the freedom fighters who want more eu presence disappointed. we should take every opportunity to use these agreements as platforms for freedom and for democracy, and during the last week under the parliament’s scrutiny, some small positive signals have come. let us now vote in favour of these agreements, and let us use the monitoring time to promote democracy, to promote human rights in vietnam together.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: vietnam is the eu's most important trading partner in south-east asia, after singapore. with the agreement, we are removing almost all customs duties and giving european companies access to a market of almost 100 million consumers, a rapidly growing middle class and increased purchasing power. this means great opportunities for the 600 or so companies from malmö in the south to vilhelmina in the north exporting there, but also great potential for all those importing from vietnam. my hope is that it will be even easier for companies to start trading with this large market. i travelled with the european parliament delegation to vietnam this autumn. everyone we met from party-loyal ministers to human rights activists, business, humanitarian organizations and the international labour organization all urged us to ratify this agreement. eu exports to vietnam are expected to increase by 16%. this is good for swedish companies and european competitiveness. it's good for growth, it's good for jobs. it's good for business. that is why i will vote in favour of these agreements.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, high representative mr borrell, you called on both sides to reengage and refrain from any unilateral actions that would exacerbate tensions. this is a peace plan widely accepted in israel, but fully rejected on the palestinian side. fine, but palestinians will not even sit down at the table. many in the palestinian population prefer violence. in fact, last month, palestinian ngos refused eu funding rules prohibiting our aid to be channelled to terrorist groups. in their refusal, these ngos, 70% funded by the eu, are calling what they believe to be your bluff. high representative, show them that the eu means business; encourage long-term re-engagement and easing of tensions; say a thousand times: no, no, no to eu funding palestinian rejectionist and terrorist policies. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i refuse to call trump's proposal a peace plan, as some people want to do, because the only proposal is a plan on how trump will secure his election victory in november in the united states and how he will secure his friend netanyahu's election victory in the israeli election. the plan is in direct contravention of international law, gives the green light to the annexation of even more palestinian land and makes impossible the possibility of a two-state solution where two democratic states - israel and palestine - coexist side by side in peace and security. at a time when the us no longer respects international law, the eu must now show that we are not just talking about our fundamental values, but that we are also fighting for them, wherever in the world injustice appears. the palestinian people and the israeli people both deserve their respective states. it is time for all eu countries to recognise palestine in the 1967 borders. my swedish government did that in 2014, which i'm proud of. my question to the high representative is therefore: what concrete action will the commission take to ensure that international law is respected?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, thank you to all the members of parliament who have taken part in this debate. i can only say that i understand and share the frustration of many of your speeches because, in the face of the syrian crisis, the european union has in fact become impotent. and as much as we say "they must cease, they must, they must, they should, they should, they should", with what leverage, with what force, with what capacity can we act on the actors? we have spent many years saying that there was no military solution to the conflict in syria and, in the end, there has been a military solution. it's happening now. by whom? by those who are capable of using military force. and europe is not in that situation. we will therefore continue to urge everyone to stop attacks on the civilian population, to stop impeding humanitarian aid, to respect the rules and obligations of international humanitarian law, and to protect civilians. but we all know that this is a declaration of principle which is not backed up by any coercive force to make it a reality. what has happened in syria is a great lesson for europe. it's a great lesson for that geopolitical actor that we say we want to be. and if we really want to be, we have to take the necessary measures and have the necessary means. otherwise we will continue to hold parliamentary sessions like this to keep saying 'il faut, il faut, il faut'.
author. – madam president, the comprehensive eu-africa strategy is a window of opportunity for a much needed fresh start for eu-africa relations, and let us promise each other here today that we will now try to move forward beyond words and good intentions to concrete actions. let us be strategically action-oriented and not waste any more time. a new strategy must recognise the strength and potential in the african economy, pursue the long-term strategic and mutual interests of the eu and our african partners, and support the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs). for the eu-africa strategy to be successful, i believe that three things are necessary. firstly, a clear vision of the end game, and a concrete plan to use a comprehensive approach with all available tools. secondly, an awareness of what can be gained if we succeed in strengthening our partnership and what is at stake if we don’t. thirdly, defining how we can better use aid-effectiveness tools at our disposal and that the commission take a lead in coordinating all eu institutions and member states. there are plenty of mutually beneficial opportunities – economic growth, employment and trade. there are also immediate challenges – climate change, poverty, conflict and irregular migration. the high population growth that we see in africa also means that poverty levels will continue to increase. in 2030, global poverty is expected to be almost exclusively centred in africa. conflicts tend to brew in countries facing poverty and with high levels of unemployment. on behalf of the committee on development, i have tabled a series of questions to the commission and hopefully today we can get some clear answers. firstly, how does the strategy effectively contribute to the implementation of the sdgs and the fundamental objectives of poverty eradication? what measures and what mechanisms will be put in place? secondly, how will the new strategy contribute to the strategic interests and common priorities of both partners with a view to good governance, human rights, the fight against inequalities, climate change, etc.? thirdly, how will the commission ensure the involvement of numerous stakeholders, like national parliaments, governments, local authorities, the private sector, civil society, in the design of the strategy? and fourthly, let me also express some concern regarding the potential for overlaps. what i’m talking about is the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici), in which africa is of course a priority, as well as the negotiations on the future of the acp-eu partnership agreement. to be concrete, how will the commission ensure consistency and avoid the risk of developing overlapping strategic frameworks? finally, development policy coherence is something that is in our treaty obligations and it’s high time that we tried to deliver on that commitment. therefore, i would like to know: how will you make sure to incorporate development policy coherence in the strategy design. to conclude, from the colleagues in the committee on development: we do look forward to working together with the commission. we have a huge task in front of us but also great opportunities. let’s get the work started together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's almost, but only almost, seductive to listen to all the beautiful words about how we should fight the hatred of jews, of muslims, of those who are different from the crowd - people like me. fortunately, many of us are aware that it is a lot of empty talk. behind rhetorical curves are different standards and completely different definitions of rights, depending on where you come from, where your parents come from, what name you have and how much pigment you have in your skin. racism and discrimination are spreading like wildfire. we have to take these threats seriously. it is unacceptable that the eu leaders, who have been in power for 15 years, have not been able to sign the anti-discrimination directive.
mr president, one of the most hideous crimes against the jewish people took place in 1492 when the so-called catholic kings ordered the general expulsion of the jews from sepharad. this first episode of state anti-semitism, one that adolf hitler admired and sought to surpass, stands as a cornerstone of the spanish tragic record of intolerance. today, this intolerance takes the form of contempt for the rights of the catalan minority. this happens in the background of laughter and indulgence with fascism apologies. while the francisco franco foundation remains legal, spanish judges use anti-hatred laws to prosecute catalan teachers that criticise the violence of the civil guard. we do need laws to protect minorities from hatred but, without democratic judges to enforce them, they are useless.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we should not have to debate anti-semitism, racism and hatred in europe, but it is important and unfortunately necessary. anti-semitism is on the rise in europe, including in my own country, sweden. according to the eurobarometer, anti-semitism is growing most strongly in sweden at the moment. jews say you don't dare wear your star of david or your kippa. religious freedom is restricted. i believe that the fight against anti-semitism should be a much clearer priority for the commission. i do not understand why it is not even mentioned in the commission's work programme and would like an explanation as to why it is not mentioned. i would also like to end by making three specific proposals for initiatives which the commission should take. first of all: increase funding to educate young people about the holocaust, racism and hate crime in europe. secondly: stop foreign funding of extremist religious groups throughout europe. thirdly: stop the ability of hate preachers to travel to europe and spread their extremist views. we must show that we are prepared to do something concrete to stop anti-semitism and racism in europe, because they have no place here.
mr president, 75 years after auschwitz, hatred of the jews in europe is still very much alive. the community security trust (cst) has been keeping track of incidents against jews since 1984. cst recently concluded that there were 1,800 incidents against jews in england in 2019, the highest number ever. unfortunately, there are countless low points when it comes to jew-hatred. remember the attack by a right-wing extremist on the synagogue in halle on the day of atonement last year. but think about the left: seven labour party members recently resigned because corbyn did not do enough to tackle anti-semitism in the labour party. or think of france, where holocaust survivor mrs. mireille knoll was murdered in her paris apartment on march 23, 2018. but also in my own country: cemeteries recently plundered in dordrecht. no more anti-semitism. support our petition at stopantisemitism.eu: i want you all to sign that petition.
mr president today we are dealing with a very important subject, and it must be made absolutely clear that the only possible approach after the second world war is to have zero tolerance for anti-semitism. there is complete social and political consensus on this issue in hungary. members of the jewish community live in safety, practice their religion and live out their identity. to ensure this is not only a constitutional obligation, but also a moral one. we are proud that hungary is flourishing and today is experiencing a renaissance of jewish culture, jewish people and families feel safe and cherish their heritage. in contrast, in western europe, acts of violence and attacks against jewish communities are on the rise. in addition to strongly condemning and rejecting all such attacks, it is also necessary to speak of the emergence and spread of radical muslim anti-semitism in europe as contributing to the increase in the number of anti-semitic attacks. the attacks on western european jewry are therefore another reason to take a strong stand against illegal immigration.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we must seriously push back against the hatred, the threats, the discrimination and racism to which the jews of europe are subjected. jews in sweden are particularly vulnerable. they are actually being attacked from many angles, from neo-nazis, left-wing extremists, islamists and those who simply have a great hatred for the state of israel. who then raises their voices when young people are afraid to express their jewish faith for fear of being bullied and discriminated against in school? who acts when the synagogue in malmö or gothenburg is subjected to hatred and attacks? not the swedish government anyway! i want the eu to start acting to protect the jews in europe, to educate more schoolchildren, and to work towards creating eu rules that will allow us to stop funding from extremist religious groups that spread anti-democratic values. that's enough!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is strange, though. we have amazing opportunities. we have never had such a fantastic opportunity to create a better europe. 70 years of cooperation and joint ventures have created prosperity, peaceful development and opportunities that we probably never thought we would have, and everything indicates that continued cooperation and continued joint ventures will actually make everything even better. the threat or what sometimes creeps up from the sewers is fear, nationalism, populism. if we fall back on it, it's clear that nothing is possible. but if we put that aside for a moment, we are actually the world's largest economy -- a huge welfare state with a technology that actually makes it possible to solve the challenges that we face today. but it has to be fair. this must be done with a genuinely expanded and strengthened cohesion policy. we must never fall back on exaggerated nationalism. françois mitterrand said it this way: nationalism is war. war is a thing of the past, but it could also be our future. you are the guarantor of peace and security.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the girl who's gonna be cut is usually in elementary school. first, she's got her legs tied. then you take one half of a razor blade and cut off her clitoris. the other half is used to cut off the labia and then to sew the remaining part together. the result is always psychological trauma, lifelong pain, and often major problems later in life with childbirth, menstruation, and sexual intercourse. sometimes the consequence is death. amnesty international equates genital mutilation with torture and believes that perpetrators, regardless of where the crime is committed, should be brought to justice and punished. although the first law against genital mutilation in sweden came in 1982, we now, 38 years later, have the highest number of female mutilations per capita, and only three perpetrators have been convicted. we are voting today, of course, in favour of the resolution, but we are again saying that the swedish government has done far too little, far too late.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today, the majority of you in this parliament have repeatedly called for sweden to adopt the euro. in the annual report of the european central bank you write that the adoption of the single currency is obligatory. let me inform you that sweden had a referendum on emu in 2003 where a massive majority voted against swedish membership. today only one in five swedes wants your euro. we do not want to be spending money on countries that cannot take responsibility for their own economies. we want the swedish crown. what don't you understand? you call yourselves democrats, but you act like arrogant, undemocratic bullies with no respect for the will of the people. we may have had a weak government which did not negotiate an official swedish exemption, but respected the will of the swedish people. we do not want the euro, and we will work to vote for a swedish derogation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. last year, little astrid came to our family... a most charming cavalier king charles, full of love. when we bought her, we found out that she was imported into belgium from slovakia, and when we went to the vet for a routine check-up, they told us, who were not routine dog owners, that there was a systematic cheating. what do they do in the countries of origin? what had they done to astrid? they're cheating on their birth dates. they're adding the dates sooner so the puppies can get to market sooner. they are separated from their mothers far too early, well before the eight weeks needed to provide security for the pups. it creates a lifelong trauma that manifests itself in stressful behavior. puppies are vaccinated too early to provide adequate protection. the problem here is that a lot of rogue actors, illegal actors, get away with it. i therefore voted for a european coordination of pet registration and identification in the hope that other animals, other cats and dogs, will get a better start than our astrid did.
madam president, the european union is a social success and the single market is the main reason for this. since my own country, sweden, entered the union 25 years ago, we have seen an exceptional increase in our gdp which has given us the opportunity to increase our welfare spending. our real wages have almost doubled and social protection is at an all time high. the same pattern is also visible in newer member states. so the eu has a role to play in terms of social welfare, partly through legislative proposals but especially by championing a social market economy that makes the member states prosper. as we enter a new world of work with opportunities and challenges rising in the wake of digitalisation, we must look at what we have done and ask ourselves how we can do the same again. we should strive for social protection and welfare for our citizens. however, if the eu loses its competitiveness in the digital era due to bad regulation there will be no jobs to go to, let alone welfare for our citizens.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. the new eu strategy for gender equality must include a long list of things - from a gender budget to a feminist foreign policy. as a green politician, however, i am missing the obvious focus on the great challenge of our time: the climate. we are all well aware that it is women who are the most affected by climate change, because of economic and social inequalities. the success of the paris agreement therefore requires a transition that is equitable. when ursula von der leyen was elected president, she promised to put gender equality first, at the top of the agenda, but when she presented the green package, the eu's climate change strategy, there was not a single word about gender equality. the commissioner responsible for gender equality, who has the knowledge and commitment to climate justice, helena dalli, had not even been allowed to be part of the work. that is why, in discussions with the commission and helena dalli, i and the green group have demanded two things: that the eu's green gifts must be gender-equitable and that climate change must be an obvious part of the gender strategy. we have now received positive signals and i look forward to continuing constructive work with commissioner dalli.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am extremely grateful for the struggles and achievements of women in previous nations, something that we swedish women are reaping the fruits of today. for example, women are increasingly dominant in universities, at management levels in the public sector and in social media. i am therefore concerned about the image that continues to be cultivated in the name of equality - a narrative in which women are seen as victims and in which unequal outcomes are often explained by discrimination and white patriarchal structures. there are still things to be done. however, the risk is that the new strategy is misguided and instead of further increasing gender equality, creates privileges for a new group. moreover, with coercive measures such as gender quotas and shared parental leave, we are not only replacing an old injustice with a new one, but we are also negotiating away what we have also long fought for, namely freedom of choice and the right to control our own lives.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the last time i was in new york for the un commission on women, it was a shame that the eu lacked a gender equality strategy. this time, we who are going to represent parliament can ensure that the eu takes the lead globally when commissioner dalli is now going to present a strategy. the fact that the women of the world are gathering in the un dump is actually significant. women contribute to conflict resolution and peacebuilding. women are driving sustainable development, and i look forward to the work of the commission on women. i want to push for women's rights to their own livelihood, education and jobs. i want to take a stand against violence against women and girls and end the gender pay gap. we also need to have a gender perspective in climate change. this is important not only for all women, all children and young people, but also for all men.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is an important debate. the coronavirus is causing global concern. the number of infected and dead has risen sharply in the last 24 hours alone. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we, the commission and the member states, keep our citizens informed about the virus and its risks. knowledge and research are absolutely crucial. of course, we should also work to ensure that quarantine and isolation for people with symptoms is used in a proportionate way, so that it does not violate fundamental human rights. we condemn the increasing number of racist attacks against people of asian appearance. we must now focus all our actions and efforts on preventing the spread of the virus, both within the member states and within the eu and globally. i would like to thank commissioner dalli for a very clear description of the eu's responsibilities in this work.
author. – madam president, those who need to change the constitution to stay in power should probably consider a change of career path. that obviously goes for people like vladimir putin, but it certainly goes for alpha condé as well. and that, my friends, is not the only thing that those two presidents have in common. on top of their shared flair for gunning down citizens voicing their concerns, imprisoning journalists reporting their stories, and persecuting opposition leaders exercising their democratic rights, condé and putin are in the mining business together. as the holder of the world’s largest reserves of bauxite, from which aluminium is created, guinea has something that russia wants. russian firm rusal, the largest producer of aluminium outside of china, gets 27% of its bauxite from guinea, and that makes guinea the single most important source of the company’s total bauxite production. so it’s not much of a surprise, then, that russia’s former ambassador to guinea openly backed mr condé’s unconstitutional attempts to stay in office. since 2002, 11 african leaders have taken doubtful measures to prolong their time in office. alpha condé is about to become number 12 on that not-so-very-flattering list. one needs to know when it’s time to let go and to step down, because the people of guinea deserve their democracy embedded in their constitution that they have fought so long and hard for. the people of guinea deserve better.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. what if your phone or car exists at the expense of other people's lives? at least 11,000 children are working today in the mines of madagascar, which make possible many of our phones and cars. i'm ashamed of myself! what the children working in madagascar's mines are exposed to is inhuman. it's slavery in the flesh. children don't belong in the mines or in the labor market at all. children belong in schools, where they should have the opportunity to grow and realize their dreams. the whole of society has a responsibility here: states, the private sector and the international community. we must tackle the root of the problem, which includes poverty, as well as remedial action. companies, both european and non-european, must ensure that they take responsibility throughout the entire chain of business. it is not possible at all to dispense with respect for human rights. human rights, children's rights, must be respected and are not negotiable. they are simply to be respected. if there is one issue on which we should be able to agree in this parliament, it is precisely the issue of how we treat the most vulnerable in our societies - namely children.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner vălean, thank you for your introduction. 500 people die on european roads every week. this is the equivalent of two passenger planes crashing in the eu every week, which would of course have been totally unacceptable and these are the figures for our roads. globally, it's even worse. 26,000 people lose their lives every week, mostly children and young people, and mostly people from low and middle income countries. although the number of deaths and injuries in traffic is decreasing, the figures are still far too high. we must therefore put road safety higher on the agenda, both in europe and globally. it is important that we in the eu continue to work on the zero vision presented by the previous commission, and which commissioner vălean says he wants to continue to prioritise. we also need to help achieve the un sustainable development goals, if not in time, then later - to get new targets in place, and to ensure that we succeed in halving the number of road deaths and injuries globally. that is why i am delighted that my party colleague and our swedish minister of infrastructure tomas eneroth is hosting the un global conference on road safety next week. we must improve road safety for the sake of all of us: drivers, passengers, motorcyclists, cyclists, pedestrians and not least road workers. the majority of road accidents are, as the commissioner said, preventable. we must also include vulnerable road users more in our overall work, as we heard from a colleague earlier in the debate. everyone should feel safe walking or cycling to and from work or to and from school. with better infrastructure, with speed limit analysis, the roads will be safer, but it also leads to reduced emissions. in this way, road safety work also contributes to achieving our overall climate goals. eu funding and infrastructure investments must therefore always include a road safety perspective. we must have high safety standards and carry out tailor-made tests and analyses on our vehicles. the latter is extremely important. in fact, although half the world's population are women, studies show that women today are over 70 percent more likely to be involved in a car accident than men because we do not use crash test dummies that are tailored to women. such crash dummies are finally available, but we must also ensure that they are used. so let us now ensure that we all get to grips with the new crash dummies, so that driving is just as safe for men as it is for women. when it comes to road safety, we must think about both gender equality and equity. i hope that today's debate can also send a signal to the un conference next week that we must work together to achieve our global goals and to save lives. in conclusion, i would just like to say that during my speech in this house, nine people have lost their lives in traffic accidents. there's too many of them. so let's start working together to put a stop to this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the number of coronavirus cases is increasing and our thoughts today are with all affected and vulnerable citizens. both the world health organization and the european union's infectious disease control authority say and assess that the virus is likely to continue to spread. the situation is changing day by day and it is important that the eu continues to work with a high degree of preparedness and the necessary actions based on knowledge and facts. the commission's decision to allocate funds to research and to set up a task force is therefore very good. the united nations children's fund, unicef, has shared a picture on social media that is aimed at all children. the picture says "don't forget". don't forget that there are many helpers out there working to protect you there are family, teachers, nurses and doctors the picture also says "it's not your job to worry, but to wash your hands". all our citizens should feel confident that the eu has good health care and that all eu member states are prepared, take responsibility, show solidarity and cooperate. this will ensure that our citizens, including all children, can feel secure in the many helpers who take their responsibilities and do their utmost to prevent the spread of infection. and just like that picture that unicef has shared on social media, and that is directed at all children, we're going to make sure that everyone -- really everyone -- now takes responsibility and, of course, washes their hands.
mr president, i would like to thank you. not long ago, i stood in this very room and asked the following questions: is it really reasonable to spend the bulk of the eu budget on climate change? are there not other things that we need to focus on in order to prepare for the future? is this the kind of leadership we need? today we have the answer. we are now in a crisis whose consequences - human, social and economic - we cannot currently overlook. the obvious priority now is to reduce the spread of infection, provide adequate health care resources and mitigate the economic consequences. but crisis also means opportunity for change, and i take it for granted that there will now be a renewal. i hope that this difficult situation will lead to a re-prioritization, so that we will continue to put the health, safety, economy and future of our citizens above all else, and that we will have new leadership that can look up, evaluate and see the consequences of decisions already taken before it is too late.
in writing. the ongoing crisis affects all people and all economic sectors. a well-functioning transport sector is crucial to transport the vital medicines, protective equipment and food we need to get through the crisis. we must ensure the necessary transport to get through the direct health crisis that is going on right now, while protecting the health and safety of transport workers. but we also need to ensure that we have a sustainable and well-functioning transport sector in the long term. it is necessary to get both society and the economy back on track. the coronavirus crisis is creating a huge uncertainty for the entire transportation industry. it is therefore important that we, the decision-makers, create clear conditions to help the transport sector in this difficult situation. i am therefore glad that we can today speed up the implementation of eu rules so that airlines no longer have to fly empty planes in order not to be fined or lose future flight opportunities. the new interim rules will not only reduce empty flights and thus unnecessary emissions, but will also provide clear guidelines for the aviation industry, its workers and consumers. it is also important for the tourism sector, which employs no less than 25 million people in the eu.
in writing. the ongoing coronavirus crisis shows the importance of a well-functioning transport system. transport is needed to provide vital medicines and food, but also to secure our economy. this applies to all eu countries. our common internal market and common rules are a strength in times of crisis. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is now adopting a position on the eu's handling of the coronavirus crisis, which stresses the importance of the eu's transport system but also of the health and safety of workers. a safe working environment shall be provided in all sectors. we must ensure a good working environment both for those workers who are working in the current crisis and for those who are now returning to their workplace. if we expect workers to restart the economy step by step, they must be able to trust that no economic factors or profit shortcuts will erode their security. no one should have to worry about putting their health at risk when working and taking responsibility. the european commission should provide guidance on how to ensure a safe working environment in the run-up to the economic recovery, and ensure that member states and employers comply with the eu rules in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are all here in europe together in a collective crisis experience, and this gives us a foretaste of what is to come if we continue to drive at full throttle into the climate crisis. and to all of you in this house and in national governments who are trying to use this situation to undermine the climate policies of the union and the nation states, i say to you: you will have to answer to the next generation. and one thing that's emerging from this crisis is the link between well-funded public health systems and the amount of people who die from this virus. if today you still call for privatisation of health and care and don't understand that we need properly funded public healthcare all over europe, you haven't learned the lesson of covid-19.
mr president, many europeans are probably not familiar with the traditional chinese ritual of prostrating yourself: kowtow. today, this means showing too much respect to someone in authority. the commission erased criticism of china from its corona disinformation report. the eu representation in beijing accepted chinese censorship of an op-ed by eu ambassadors. the eu council discussed the wuhan virus during its last meeting, but carefully avoided any reference to china, the communist party and the need for an international inquiry. this despite our knowledge that the chinese communist party covered up the outbreak while vacuuming the world of personal protective equipment. they sealed wuhan from the rest of china while allowing super-spreaders to board flights to milan and new york. stop this kowtowing!
mr president, the european union is a union of solidarity in good times and bad. my appeal to the heads of state is to show solidarity and unity now. the way out of the crisis is to invest massively and support the most affected sectors - tourism, services, transport - but not at the expense of other policies, such as regional development policy, which needs predictability and sustainability. we need investment through an ambitious multiannual financial framework with more own resources and a recovery fund with a serious part as a grant, but not a multiannual financial framework at the expense of the fund or vice versa. let us not solve the urgent problems of the present by undermining the future and risk deepening regional disparities in the european union. commissioner, i would like to ask the president, mrs ursula von der leyen, to speak directly to the european citizens through the public television channels of each member state, to share with them both her human sympathy and the measures that the european union is taking. no one should be left alone, but we must not allow misinformation and conspiracy theories to be the main driver of division among citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has finally agreed on a serious programme of measures to deal with the coronavirus crisis. of course, he could and should have done it sooner. we now expect the commission to present an operational proposal for the recovery plan which is adequate in quality and quantity: the stakes are not just to defeat covid-19, but to make europe resilient to the virus of disintegration, which, yes, is heavily fuelled by foreign countries. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only asked for economic aid to help countries and people in difficulty, we are asked to give this europe back a dream, a vision and a soul. everyone is faced with complex and even controversial choices. let us not only ask what we must do, but why we must do it! in answering this question we will find the courage, the ambition and the foresight we need to face the difficult times we are given to live in.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am following with great concern the debate we are having at the moment on the mff and the reconstruction fund. we all got along fine when we moved the building fund to the mfr. the member states which wanted to do so only realised later that they did not want to pay any more. this game was actually very predictable. it is clear that this policy will affect those budgetary chapters which have been important in the mff. i'll take the example of agriculture. in times of covid, when farmers have fed us safely, we have only 80 million euros left for agriculture as a crisis measure for 27 member states - the united states, for example, has 19 billion euros left - and this for a policy that is our policy, for which we are responsible and for which we must be accountable. we must act as a parliament. agriculture still needs the money it had before. we should not be voting for a proposal that says otherwise, even in the new mff, even next year, and in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing the most difficult challenge since the end of the second world war and we must therefore act more united than ever, with the same ambition and political courage as the founding fathers of the union. we must abandon the old political, economic and legal dogmas and have the courage to rebuild a new europe, more integrated and resilient, based on solidarity. and to do this, this house must play a central role in policy guidance and budgetary decision-making in the creation of the recovery and transformation plan and in the negotiation of an ambitious mff. we have to put the two billion euros fresh on the table, without false debates or financial trickery. money must circulate and reach the citizens, businesses, regions and countries that need it most as soon as possible. because, as adenauer said, we all live under the same sky, but none of us has the same horizon. let us work together to reach the same horizon and share a common destiny that leaves no one behind. let us show the strength of this parliament by voting, all of us, for the joint resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr von der leyen, we are asking you to put in place an ambitious plan to meet the needs of citizens and businesses affected by covid-19, because we are on the verge of an unprecedented economic disaster. the resolution we are presenting today is a demonstration of responsibility and firmness at such a difficult time, but it also reaffirms the centrality of parliament: we cannot continue to hold the union hostage to governments, we must invest a lot and do it quickly, and the focus this time must be on citizens and businesses, not as in 2008 when banks were chosen first. the 2 000 billion euro is barely enough to support the economies of the member states. we expect the recovery plan to be not an empty box but to be made up of bonds and loans even at a loss and to be linked to the green transition and economic resilience. the people need answers now. the tourism, transport, manufacturing and all small and mediumsized enterprises can no longer wait: the time limit for a financial catastrophe is running out, and economic measures should not be taken away from the structural funds. we decide today... (some words missing) or not!
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we fight covid-19, europe is in the midst of the worst economic crisis since the great depression. europe now needs a strong rescue package and a modern budget that builds europe's competitiveness. but at the same time we need to have a responsible economic policy, and therefore the rescue package should not consist of a majority of grants and direct payments. rather, it should be about loans; and loans that also have to be repaid. future economic policy should be more about new reforms and less about new taxes. mr president, we are in favour of european cooperation and solidarity, but the swedish moderates and christian democrats cannot support this resolution.
in writing. the eu was founded to secure peace, strengthen trade, create jobs and give hope for the future. this year marks the 70th anniversary of the schuman declaration. the eu has changed drastically since then. the eu has succeeded in maintaining peace in europe and cooperation has been deepened. but progress has not always been in the interests of workers and trade unions. it is important to have an eu that solves the common problems of the member states. at the same time, the eu must respect trade union freedoms and rights, and give countries political and legal room to bring order to the labour market. the interests of unserious companies in moving across borders cannot be overridden by trade union rights. we need a europe that helps to combat growing inequalities, unfair competition and social dumping. an eu that creates a floor of protection and rights for workers in the single market, that puts limits on the unilateral profit interests of global corporate giants and closes the doors to tax evasion. it is crucial for the future of the eu that we succeed in pursuing a policy that delivers for ordinary people. that is the basis of our social democrats. and it is with this in mind that i am working for a more ambitious european strategy for working conditions, for increased opportunities for trade union organisation and collective bargaining, and for better conditions for member states to guarantee equal treatment of workers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. of course, it is of the utmost importance now that we develop a safe vaccine. we know that it will take time, probably many years, and also that there will be great costs for research, manufacture and even dissemination. most of these costs are expected to be covered by government funding to fund research by large multinational companies. this money comes without sufficiently clear conditions and requirements, for example in the area of intellectual property rights. the eu has pledged $10 billion. it's good, it's good. but first, we can't give away more or less $10 billion without securing fair access to both patents and vaccines. if the world is going to collectively fund the development of a vaccine, then the world should also have free access to patents for licensed manufacture of vaccines. and secondly, the precautionary principle: we must not make the same mistake as when we stressed the development of a vaccine against swine flu, and in sweden alone 500 people suffered from it.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has shaken europe and the world. there is no doubt that we must all work together to help europe get back on its feet. if this crisis has shown anything, it's that alone we are not strong. it is urgent, and targeted action needs to be taken. the european commission has now presented a gigantic recovery plan to meet the needs of the member states. regardless of the final size of the recovery fund, it is important that the resources are allocated to the right actions. we don't just need investment, we need smart investment. for the recovery plan to deliver clear added value, it needs to focus on social and sustainable investments. in order to take responsibility for future generations, it is crucial that the recovery plan prioritises climate change adaptation. we need to ensure that the money is used to reduce the climate footprint of our transportation, regardless of the traffic. last but not least, we must ensure that eu funds do not end up in the hands of authoritarian regimes. not a single euro of this money should be paid to countries that violate the rule of law and basic democratic values.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a few days after the killing of george floyd i was putting my youngest daughter to bed. she chatted away and then went silent and asked me: ‘will they kill me too?’ colonialism has defined american and european societies for centuries. it has created deeply rooted prejudices and inequalities that still prevail and de facto kill people. of course, structural racism in the eu is different from the us. we don’t have the same horrific history of slavery and lynching, but we do have documented atrocities in our colonial history, which still resonates today through discrimination and police brutality. in addition, we have a recent history of systematic persecution and mass murders of minorities, of jews, of lgbti persons and of roma people, to name a few. no one is free unless all are free. we need to send a strong signal to the us, but also to sweep in front of our own door. this parliament and your commission will define how the eu steps up to create a sustainable society that leaves no one behind. there can be no room for racism and discrimination. a first step would be to unblock the anti-discrimination directive that has been stuck in council since 2008. madam president, i call on you and the incoming german presidency to take this historic opportunity for action. tonight, i want to put my daughter to bed, and reassure her – ‘you will be safe’. because in the eu we refuse to be silenced by hate, by fear, by ignorance. i ask, on behalf of my daughter, if not now, when? (applause)
madam president, i would like to thank you. a person's skin color, country of birth and religion are never a threat. threat is spelled racism, fear and ignorance. the murder of george floyd is not an isolated incident in the united states. we also have cases on our continent. the black lives matter demonstrations spread like wildfire in solidarity with all blacks who are daily exposed to structural racism in the united states. but the demonstrations are also rooted in frustration at the structural racism and discrimination faced by black people, migrants and other groups in our union. however, we should know that structural racism is not always expressed through obscure racist theories. rather, it is seen in everyday life. in conversations with community institutions, in conversations with colleagues, in schools. our citizens deserve better than that. our eu motto 'united in diversity' cannot only mean national diversity, it must include other foundations as well. it must include all the people in our union. it's time to move beyond just talking about anti-racism. it is time to act against racism by voting yes to the resolution here in parliament, but also for the council to adopt the proposals and for the commission to implement them.
the committee on transport and tourism has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank michel barnier, who is here today, for all his work. it is absolutely essential that we remain calm and continue to negotiate together on the terms of reference we have previously agreed. i have been responsible on the transport committee for this matter. it is clear that it is important that we get an agreement in place that guarantees continued good relations between the eu and the uk. every year, over 4 million lorries transport goods to and from the uk. over 54 million passengers travel between the eu and the uk each year. so it is of the utmost importance to maintain these freight and passenger services. but at the same time, the united kingdom has chosen to leave the union, and you cannot keep the same rights without any obligations. what we must ensure is an agreement which ensures continued good relations but which also guarantees us that the uk cannot undermine our good working conditions, our environmental standards and otherwise compete with the european union in terms of subcontracting.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the next european council the heads of state and government will finally have to give their opinion on the reconstruction plan presented by the european commission. we expect them to reach a decision as soon as possible, but not just any decision, a decision that is commensurate with the crisis we are experiencing. as you know, our political group welcomed the 'next generation eu' from the outset. we believe that the commission's plan is the minimum trade union or, if you like, a good starting point, and it has elements that deserve attention. i will quote two of them for brevity. the first: the 750 billion, a large part of which is lost, to get our small and mediumsized businesses back on track, to help our workers, to give a perspective to people who have lost their jobs. the second: the possibility of a common european debt, backed by the union's own resources, which are not, as some would have us believe, new taxes for citizens, but the possibility of making those who have not paid the taxes they should have paid, or paid them where they wanted to - i am thinking of multinationals - pay the cost of the crisis, or finally to combat environmental dumping on our products. citizens are crying out for help at every latitude. this emergency has affected all over europe, but it has affected in different ways. but let the so-called frugal states not think that this is a good reason to leave the most affected and therefore most fragile countries to their fate. we're all saved here together. value chains are integrated, our economies are too interdependent, and if even the smallest state in europe collapses, the whole internal market collapses, and the cost will also be borne by the productive realities of countries which today feel invulnerable. it's not just solidarity and mutual convenience. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the community is not affected by the crisis. only by acting in time and with adequate resources can we get back on track. parliament is ready.
madam president, i am saddened when i see that the negotiations are stalling. the eu and the uk have all the prerequisites to strike a bargain on the second-best trade and partnership agreement in the world. never before has there been a situation where negotiating partners’ premises and interests are so aligned and so close to one another. the agreement on the new relationship between the eu and the uk must acknowledge our common history, geographical proximity and the other connections we have between the brits and the eu. anything but a comprehensive and indivisible agreement that provides robust level-playing-field guarantees, both to the uk and the eu, would be a historical failure. what must be achieved is the second-best trade and partnership agreement in the world: an agreement so good that the only better deal is eu membership itself.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the commission's proposal for the mff and the recovery fund as a common package of support for investment in the member states is a good basis for negotiation at the council. secondly, however, we need to negotiate swiftly and effectively, because the economic and social situation in all the member states, despite the massive public aid they have mobilised, will continue to deteriorate and in the second quarter of this year we can expect a fall in gdp of up to 20% in some countries. thirdly, the financial reinforcement of cohesion policy and the cap proposed by the commission should be welcomed, as these are the two most effective eu policies and the cap and farmers have ensured food security for 500 million eu consumers during the pandemic. fourth, the effectiveness of such a large eu budget will depend on the flexibility of its use and the ability to use it to address the real economic problems of countries, not just digital or climate issues.
madam president, let’s be pragmatic and sensible. the british nation is a much-loved and respected member of the european family, and it will always be for generations to come. they no longer are a member of the eu. that is why we have to come to an agreement with our close neighbour and old friend. after four rounds of unsuccessful negotiations, we must conclude that the strategy has not worked so far. circumstances have changed. we are looking at a huge economic crisis – the covid-19 crisis. we cannot afford a no-deal in the current situation. a divorce is painful for all parties involved. there is a price to pay on both sides. we have to think about the next generation. this is not a moral issue, but a situation in need of a sensible approach. when circumstances change, strategies have to change as well. let’s not aim for the ultimate deal but for the best one possible at this moment. think about the generations to come in britain and in the eu. let’s be pragmatic, and let’s be sensible.
madam president, here we go again. six months away from another brexit cliff edge and, again, we have to conclude that no substantial progress has been made at all. somehow ‘get brexit done’ became ‘get nothing done’, and actually we have moved backwards, with boris johnson seeming to have forgotten about the political declaration that he himself agreed and signed last year; forgotten about the joint declaration that provides a basis, a foundation, for an ambitious partnership between the uk and the eu, founded on a level playing field. we said it many times: brexit is a lose-lose situation. it’s bad for both the uk and the eu, but at least with a properly organised exit, we can mitigate some of those negative effects a little. citizens and companies have a right to certainty, clarity and reassurance about their future. i’m afraid to say that it seems like we’re running out of time and options. so maybe we need to get creative. maybe, michel barnier, you could invite marcus rashford to the next negotiating round. he at least seems like someone who gets something done in the uk these days.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. boris johnson has also said it again. this is the typical perception, the false perception, that one thing always means the same thing. the negotiations with canada were about two far-away partners moving towards each other and reaching agreement on certain areas. it was a great success. we have a common situation with the united kingdom, a common market, and now we want to divide ourselves, and if we go in the direction of the canada agreement, that is a bad deal. and we do not need a bad deal, we need a good deal in the interests of economic relations and in the interests of jobs and citizens. i can therefore only encourage the council meeting on 19 june not to agree to a bad deal but to work towards a really good deal. a bad deal means economic growth goes away. even the british have said 4.6% will go away if we have a ceta deal, and that is not to be followed by boris johnson.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are embarking on very difficult negotiations on a financial response which, although significant, is likely to fall far short of expectations, be burdened with conditions that are yet to be discovered and, above all, belated. crumbs in 2020, little more than crumbs in 2021. when the bulk of the funding comes in, too many businesses in too many sectors, from services to tourism to industry, will have already closed and too many people will be out of work. with the flexibility on state aid, internal market imbalances are increased and only the ecb's purchases, as long as they last, seem to be a real response to the crisis. then some countries will decide to activate the esm, but perhaps that is the goal. instead of worrying about that, you continue with the perverse ideology of the green deal, imposing new burdens on companies and new lifestyles on citizens. you have rediscovered the word solidarity, and we are glad of that, but you have forgotten the word responsibility.
i have to say, madam president, today may be the last chance we have to influence the outcome of this trial. i welcome the clear words we have been able to find together on social protection, environmental protection, civil rights and also the situation on the island of ireland. i would like to say very clearly, also to the negotiator's address: thank you for your work! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this also applies to trade issues. but perhaps i also have to ask ourselves - thank you also to the rapporteurs for their work - why we have not learned together from the corona crisis and the climate crisis and brought new thinking into the whole negotiation. the section on trade relations does not protect health services from market forces, but follows conventional, neoliberal paths. the proposals for cooperation do not give priority to disarmament and poverty reduction, and the concrete needs of the people, the rights of citizens and civil society remain unresolved. that is to say, it is difficult for us to accept this result, so to speak, without conditions, and that is why i believe and hope that our group's amendments will be accepted tomorrow.
madam president, scotland wanted to remain in the union, but their voice has been silenced in the negotiations, and now they’re out with the rest of the uk. across history, we have seen european borders changing by invasions and displacements of people, but when coercion is the base of stability, these only bridge the demise of europe. the only thing that europe has not tried is the only thing that we can offer to our citizens and to the world: a better kind of freedom, based on democracy and consent. for us to be credible for scots to return, europe needs to address urgently the issue of internal enlargement. otherwise, the union will be doomed, like all european empires, for the same reason: for repressing the positive power of diversity. self—determination of peoples is not a right that we don’t know how to deal with; rather, it is the moral compass that will save us from our blind spots and illusions. to my very dear friends in scotland, i say: we are eager to welcome you back in the eu.
(start of intervention with microphone off) mr vice-president of the commission, council, since so many colleagues have spoken about brexit and the negotiations for the partnership with the united kingdom, let me turn to the other very important point of this council, which is precisely the question of the recovery plan. it is essential that we as parliament give the commission our full support in this plan because it provides for the first time the issuing of european bonds, because it provides for a recovery based on grants and loans, because it provides for giving priority to those which are the major objectives of the european union for this decade, such as digitisation and, of course, the green deal. we must also regret what has happened to the multiannual financial framework, where there are still very serious cuts. i would therefore like to appeal to the council, the european council and the member states, to the frugal, the unwilling and all those who have expressed some reservations about this plan of the european commission. that appeal is as follows: if you are concerned about future generations, then support the commission's plan, the plan put forward by president von der leyen. that's what future generations expect from all of you.
madam president, three messages in one minute. parliament and the commission have already met the challenge of putting forward ambitious proposals. it is now up to the council to reach an agreement to rebuild europe and to ensure that the funds reach the citizens, the businesses and the regions that need them most as soon as possible. the time has also come to introduce new own resources of the union to repay the debt. secondly, to the european people's party and its leader manfred weber: do not worry, the spanish government will present an ambitious recovery plan that leaves no one behind. we socialists will not accept the plans of the past. we do not want disguised conditionality or austerity. and finally, i would ask the members of the ppe and their allies not to make any mistakes. this house is not an annex to the congress of deputies. do not use this house as a trench to attack and overthrow the government of pedro sanchez. defend the spanish citizens and not the "strategy of the frugal". learn to be patriots even when you're in opposition, please.
madam president, i would like to thank you. so here we are again. it is time again for swedish taxpayers to save economically mismanaged states and a monetary union we voted no to. you talk about solidarity, about community and about helping, about a future for future generations. but solidarity cannot be built on the fact that one party is struggling and the other is wasting. if you had taken your responsibility, you would have demanded major reforms. instead, in the shadow of the corona, you are looking to share the burden of the growing debt and shift even more power to the eu. the rescue package will not help, will not solve structural deficiencies, will not increase competitiveness or create long-term growth. nor will it promote the fragile cohesion. it shifts the burden of the future onto our children and grandchildren. this is not solidarity, it is irresponsibility. you call it the 'next generation eu'. i call it "we don't care about the next generation eu".
madam president, i would like to thank you. what europe needs now is to come together and agree on a multiannual budget and a recovery package. the swedish moderates want to strengthen european cooperation, but believe that it must be done responsibly. if we're going to take out a historic loan together, we can't pass the bill on to future generations. that is why we want to demand a much tougher repayment plan. it is not reasonable that the repayment should start in 2028 and continue for another 30 years. we need to stick to the rule of law so that we use eu funds properly. in conclusion, regardless of where the compromise ends: it is not grants or loans or, for that matter, higher taxes that strengthen our competitiveness, but reforms. europe needs reforms. europe will also be stronger.
madam president, the principle of equal opportunities, fair competition - this basic principle has been flagrantly ignored by the tax agreement between the united kingdom and spain, which seems to allow the continuation of a tax regime which taxes profits made within the rock but not those made outside, and which taxes gambling with a symbolic tax. these privileges have consequences that speak for themselves: thirty thousand offshore companies in gibraltar and 60% of online gambling controlled by gibraltar. gibraltar today has the third highest per capita income in the world, while the adjacent gibraltar field has an income that is six times lower, a greater difference than that between the united states and mexico. we have denounced this scheme here on as many occasions as we have had, because it is contrary to the monti tax code and it is contrary to the state aid code. the spanish government may ignore this situation, but the european union cannot tolerate it, and that must be made clear in the forthcoming negotiations. it would be good if we all, as a legal union, were to commit ourselves to complying with international law on decolonisation in these negotiations.
madam president, taking advantage of the presence of the european council and the european commission and being in the european parliament, this powerful force of the peoples of europe, i would like to denounce with all the strength of my soul an issue which is exclusively european and which will become a tragic issue for the european union, namely the threats, blackmail and expansionist aggressive policies of turkey against two member states of the european union, greece and cyprus. the violations by turkey in cyprus, the violations in greece, the illegal turcoliv memorandum are not matters which concern cyprus but concern the whole of the european union. the tolerance of the european union, which continues to this day to finance this illegal blackmailing country which is affecting two european union member states, has discouraged turkey. it is not possible to continue this funding while it is illegally in the cypriot eez and violates greek airspace and maritime borders. i call on the european union and on the strong member countries of the european union to defend the maritime borders of the european union in the same way as they defend the borders of the european union against illegal immigrants and, if necessary, to send even their navy to defend the maritime borders of the european union in cyprus and greece.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we need as close a relationship with britain as possible. they remain our partners, our allies and our friends. our geographical proximity and deep trade links make it impossible to celebrate the new year 2021 without an agreement in place. boris johnson now wants britain to be the best in europe at business. they will be keen competitors to the eu in the battle for jobs and investment. this must make the eu take action and set even higher targets for our jobs and growth. like the uk, we must focus fully on cutting red tape and creating better conditions for our european exporters and small businesses. it is unfortunate that the already time-limited negotiations now coincide with the covid-19 pandemic. i have to say that of course an extension of the negotiating period would be good, but i welcome the fact that new constructive steps are now being taken in the run-up to the summer negotiations. the eu and the uk need each other. let's work together to create a better business climate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is fitting that it is this very week that we in the european parliament adopt our resolution on tourism, a week that began with the reopening of many of our borders. the start of the summer holidays and vacations is also now. it is important that we succeed in opening up europe to tourism and travellers, not only for tourists who have the opportunity to see new things, to experience new things, but above all for the 22 million europeans who depend on tourism for their jobs and their income. as so many have been told: for this to work, it requires that those who travel, those who are going to tour, are safe. on the plane, on the train, on the bus, in hotel facilities and so on. but it also requires that those who work in hotels, those who work in restaurants or shops, those who clean, are safe when they go to work. so we have to make sure that as we now gradually open up our economies, we also guarantee the health and safety of all the millions of people who work in these sectors. because the economy is important, but it's also important that we guarantee people's health at work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr joseph borrell, please. my colleagues in the epp are wondering what we are doing here today. the epp seems to be waiting for annexation and then being reactive, whereas the s&d group prefers to be active and prevent any annexation. if israel is allowed to go ahead with its annexation plans, it would be a major blow to the peace process. the chances of resuming negotiations on the two-state solution would be completely impossible. it would also undermine the situation and strengthen the breeding ground for polarization, extremism and violence in the region. annexation constitutes a violation of international law, as well as a violation of article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement. but even if the big annexation plans according to trump's plan do not happen, there is actually a step-by-step annexation in the form of expansion of the settlements in palestine. my question to you, mr vice-president and high representative, is this: what steps do you intend to take against netanyahu's annexation plans to show that we are a union that stands up for fundamental rights in the region, in our union as well as globally?
in writing. seasonal and crossborder workers in europe are often denied their rights to equal treatment and often work in poor working conditions and environments. this has to stop. this resolution is a step in the right direction. and i hope that the commission will take the measures proposed. it is particularly urgent that we now, in the midst of the ongoing pandemic, put in place a systematic work environment policy that protects even the most vulnerable on the labour market. however, as a social democrat, i would have liked to see even clearer requirements that eu funds should not go to unscrupulous employers. in my world, not a single euro should go to companies that use the freedoms of the eu to exploit their fellow citizens. workers should feel safe at their workplace and have good working conditions, regardless of the form of employment. consumers should know that when they buy something from the eu, it is free from labour exploitation. and serious companies need to know that they are not at risk of being outcompeted by rogue companies just because they follow laws, regulations and collective agreements. i will continue to work for initiatives at both national and eu level that strengthen the conditions for these vulnerable workers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the amazon is sometimes called the lungs of the world, but that's not really how the rainforest works, it's the opposite of our lungs. the rainforest is sequestering carbon and releasing oxygen, and that's a huge amount of carbon. the amazon rainforest is also one of the most vulnerable parts of the entire global climate system. i'm a weatherman. we meteorologists know the risks that everyone in this room, and of course everyone outside, is facing if the amazon rainforest continues to disappear. the importance of the amazon for the earth's climate is not something we can debate in this chamber. it's a scientific fact. so to all of you in this room who still believe that economic considerations should take precedence over stopping the slaughter, i ask: you think you can breathe out of an annual report? you think you can grow your food on the stock exchange? you think you can literally eat money? if not, then act in this chamber, because we all have to start living within the limits of the planet.
madam president, i would like to thank you. madam chancellor, please! i welcome the ambitious programme of the german presidency. the motto "recovery together" is good. we must deal with this crisis with determination, unity and solidarity. we need an ambitious, pragmatic and responsible recovery plan. we must take responsibility together to build our new economy - an economy where green transition, social rights and gender equality build the sustainable europe. we must fight unemployment. child poverty is going to end. we have to take responsibility for the fact that girls and women have been hit harder, with the violence that has increased. we would also like to see germany lift the rules on women on board. together we now have the opportunity to make europe more fair, more sustainable and more equal. we owe it to our children and grandchildren.
in writing. in recent years, we have witnessed an epidemic of money laundering in europe. the biggest known hotbed so far is danske bank's estonian money laundering operation of a staggering 2 trillion kronor. no less than three dutch banks are accused of russian money laundering. germany's national treasure, deutsche bank, is accused of laundering over $8 billion, which is to be added to previous accusations of involvement in tax evasion in the so-called panama leak. the equivalent of sek 40 billion has been closed by 50 swedish bank clients in the baltic states. all 50 of our clients are showing clear signs of suspected money laundering. in addition, the equivalent of 150 million kronor stolen in the so-called magnitsky deal was sent to accounts in swedbank. the russian tax fraud was exposed by the accountant sergei magnitsky and led to his death. the money laundering scandals of recent years have clearly demonstrated that member states have not allocated sufficient resources to implement eu legislation to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. this is why a new eu anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing authority is needed. such an authority would need legal powers to carry out field visits in member states to ensure the implementation and enforcement of eu legislation. the exchange of information between national financial intelligence authorities needs to be increased, while europol's capacity needs to be strengthened to allow for cross-border enquiries to be requested.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? one thing is certain: the virus knows no borders. this crisis has taught us that europe is really needed. no member state can cope with this crisis alone. we need more cooperation and coordination in our eu. the starting point is very clear. public health issues and thus health care systems are the responsibility of the eu member states. but that does not mean that our union does not have an important role to play. the s&d group calls for the creation of a european health union. it is important that we learn from this now and look at how we can develop this better in the future. we will protect our citizens and improve access to medicines and medical equipment so that it reaches those who need it most. we need to strengthen our cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is important that we gather here tonight not only to discuss, but also to learn from the health crisis that we are currently experiencing, and that we will have to deal with in the future. i would like to raise a matter of particular importance to me. it's about what's also happening, perhaps a little bit in the shadow of covid-19, namely the emergence of antibiotic resistance. we know that about 33 000 people in europe die because of antibiotic resistance, which is something that may actually also be important to consider in the face of future health crises. i therefore welcome the fact that this is being raised in the resolution and that several ideas are still being considered. i believe that through more responsible use of antibiotics and more research in this field, together we will be able to counter antibiotic resistance. but that requires joint work, it requires new technology, it requires joint efforts. however, i look forward to working with the other political groups and the commission on this.
madam president, democracy is under attack, the rule of law is backsliding and individual rights are being undermined. we are seeing the rise of authoritarian regimes, like in china and russia. when we say that the eu must act to protect human rights, that has to mean that we have to give the eu the right tools to do so. that means that we need to introduce a global human rights sanctions regime as soon as possible – because those who commit human rights abuses have to face sanctions. the eu has to protect human rights defenders that risk their lives for freedom. we need to make sure to remove the unanimity principle in the council on human rights matters so that the eu’s voice on human rights can become stronger because if we don’t protect and act on human rights, who else will do?
mr president, i would like to thank you. erdogan and his government in turkey are a threat - a threat to the people of turkey, a threat to the people of the middle east and a threat to europe. turkey's actions have long been alarming. this is leading to an escalation of conflicts in the mena region and risks further conflicts in the mediterranean region. in turkey, erdogan is beating the opposition with threats, hatred and violence. in the rojava region of syrian kurdistan, erdogan-labeled bombs are falling on the population. and violations of greek waters and airspace, along with the occupation of northern syria and the drilling in cyprus' exclusive economic zone, all constitute a violation of international law. we should also know that erdogan's threats, hatred and violence continue to spread from country to country in europe. erdogan-controlled media in turkey have in recent months carried out a witch hunt on three of my social democratic colleagues in the swedish parliament. vice-president and high representative josep borrell, dialogue is always important and your visit to turkey on monday was therefore welcome, but how long are we going to be talking to erdogan ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the high representative! president and dictator alexander lukashenko has misruled belarus for 26 years a regime based on abuse of power, lies and violations of human rights and freedoms. belarus is the only european country still applying the death penalty. the situation is getting worse and worse. the pressure is building. people who protest are arrested and imprisoned. now the regime is threatening to put weapons on people who are demanding what should be self-evident in europe 2020: the right to free elections. on monday, i, together with several of my colleagues in this parliament, sent a call to the eu's top leadership. what lukashenko is doing should be punished, not rewarded. we therefore call for the sanctions lifted in 2016 to be reinstated now. belarus is a disgrace on the democratic map of europe. it shouldn't be like this. the presidential elections in august and the growing discontent give us a unique opportunity to condemn lukashenko and demand democratic elections. all those who have been deprived of their liberty for political reasons must be released today. the time for the eu to support democratic development in belarus is now.
in writing. there is no doubt that a chemical strategy for sustainability is needed. today, workers die needlessly of work-related cancers that can be prevented. this is completely unacceptable. people should never die from their jobs. it is true that the resolution on the chemical strategy mentions aspects of the working environment, but this is far from sufficient. the commission needs to include a zero-cancer vision in the strategy. in addition, work should be done on an ambitious revision of the carcinogens and mutagens directive (cmd) and the adoption of binding occupational exposure limit values for 25 additional priority carcinogens under cmd by 2024 at the latest. furthermore, the commission should also ensure that chemicals in products or used at work must be assessed in conjunction with trade union representatives and reported in a way that is easily accessible to workers. in order to protect the health and safety of workers, they should be regularly reviewed on the handling of chemicals. it's actually pretty obvious. the aim must be a good and healthy working environment for all those who work. a poor working environment must never be a competitive advantage. the eu must take the lead here and ensure that companies that put workers' lives at risk do not get away with it.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. it is clear that too many eu countries do not apply article 2 teu in all situations. for too long, roma in europe have suffered severe oppression from all sectors of society. it's about discrimination in the job market. it's about discrimination in the housing market. it is about discrimination in schools and in dialogue with various authorities. it's about young, old, and especially women. the covid-19 pandemic has clearly exposed and exacerbated the weaknesses in our societies. one of the weaknesses was precisely that the situation of already vulnerable groups was made even worse. this applies to vulnerable groups in general and to roma in particular. that's enough. discrimination must be fought and eradicated. in democratic, free and equal societies, there is no room for discrimination. what we've done so far is not enough. i think that strategies are important, but we need measurable targets. we need to go from words to action, and we need to go from planning to implementation.
madam president, (off mic) what the id group is doing right now, is actually doing what we are talking about not doing – discriminating against people, making people look like suspicious criminals who don’t want a decent life. i think actually we should erase all of the speeches made by the id group until now, based on what they have been saying. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, europe is facing major challenges which we must also solve together. we need both a modern long-term budget, which prioritises climate and gender, and a recovery package, which is linked to the ongoing crisis. and of course, it's going to go to the green transition. it is therefore very gratifying that the eu heads of state or government, after five long days, have managed to reach an agreement on both the long-term budget and the recovery package. this is a historic achievement. a negotiation is always a give and take and we know that there are different views and different intentions in the member states. it is the same in this parliament. now they've taken their responsibility. now we're going to take responsibility. we need a europe, an eu, that takes the lead in the climate challenge, that pushes for a fair and equal europe and that really stands up for the rule of law in all member states. not in 25, not in 26 but in 27 member states, the rule of law is to be upheld. that is how we together build a strong union for future generations. and why do we do this? yes, i'm doing it for my children and grandchildren and their future.
in writing. we have a compromise on the table and it is important that we now focus on managing it as well as possible. i know that some would have liked the recovery plan to consist of loans only, while others would have wanted even more grants. but now the scope of the fund and the next long-term budget have been set. for me, there are two things that are of particular importance as we move forward. first, the rule of law mechanism must work. if viktor orbán can extract billions in aid while continuing to dismantle democracy in his home country of hungary, it will seriously jeopardize and weaken support for eu cooperation in sweden and other countries. why should we pay to keep orbán's regime in power? second, we must ensure that the €672.5 billion now to be distributed to member states is actually used to reshape our societies to meet the climate challenge. if not, this will be at best a missed opportunity and at worst something that will damage the eu fundamentally.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the absolute majority of us are well aware that developments in poland have been going in the wrong direction for a long time. the vast majority of us are well aware that what is going on is wrong and dangerous. but not enough of us are prepared to go from words to action. who are we if we do not act with force when the rights of women and lgbtq people are being trampled, and when the independence of the judiciary and the media are being undermined? it is clear that the eu's heads of government are not doing enough. then it is up to us, the elected representatives, to fight back hard against hard. let's use the opportunity that the fight for money gives us. the need to respect eu values must be balanced against the need to respect the crown.
mr president, i would like to thank you. after 20 years in the bourgeoisie, there are certain basic economic principles that i don't thumb my nose at: limit the tax burden. don't live on borrowed money. don't blame the future generations for this. you moderates have accepted prime minister löfven's summer fiasco at the negotiating table here in brussels. you are helping to put future generations in debt, borrowing for subsidies and giving the eu tax rights. you are sacrificing bourgeois principles on the altar of the european union. you failed the eu council. you betrayed us when you voted against the sd campaign against the eu's unlawful indebtedness of children and grandchildren to shovel billions in aid into mismanaged economies. i'm not sure. it's not too late for the moderates to change their minds. support our proposal here in brussels to stop the eu loan. support us in the reichstag. together we can save future generations billions in debt and eu taxes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. where arguments fail, the threat of violence becomes an option for some. that's erdoğan right there right now. in an increasingly uncertain world, we need more dialogue, not escalation. we need more understanding, not polarization. but i have to say, after last week's foreign affairs committee meeting, i almost gave up hope. the fact that turkish foreign minister cavusoglu feels compelled to say at the meeting that he is proud of his ancestors, the ottomans, and that the eu's borders do not end with cyprus and greece, makes me wonder whether he knows what the ottomans were doing and how well he can read a map. believe me, i too wish that turkey was at a point where there was hope of eu membership. it would mean that all the peoples - turks, kurds, syrians, assyrians, armenians, alevis and all others - in turkey lived in democracy and freedom, that the occupation of cyprus was history, and that the conflict with greece was resolved. but unfortunately, we are not there yet, and with the erdoğan government, it is absolutely impossible. now is the time to impose sanctions on erdoğan and his lackeys.
mr president, for weeks the people of belarus have entered the streets with great courage against lukashenko’s dictatorship and election fraud. but where is the courage of the european union? where are the tougher sanctions? it is time to act now. as stated by my colleague katalin cseh, slow sanctions are no sanctions. those responsible for violence and oppression, as well as lukashenko himself, must be punished, not encouraged. also, private actors need to be held accountable. european telecom companies taking orders from the regime and cutting mobile internet is of course unacceptable. it is time for the people to decide about their own future. it is time to support belarus on its own way towards democracy. it is not a question for putin or anyone else. it is time for us to stand up with the people who want their votes to count. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. yesterday, it was 98.5 degrees in france. that's a new september record for that country. hundreds of places here in western europe set new heat records, and more are expected to do so today. this extremely late summer heat is yet another example and reminder of global warming. in the midst of this, literally, burning climate crisis, russia wants to entrench the eu, not least germany, in a long-term dependence on fossil energy through the nord stream 2 gas pipeline. if nord stream 2 is stopped, it increases the chance that we will still succeed in meeting the climate targets that we voted on last week in the environment committee, among others. the german government will also have the opportunity to make a strong point against russia and against putin, given the way in which they repeatedly treat political opponents and dissidents in a completely unacceptable manner.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank president von der leyen for a very powerful speech. yes, we've all been affected by the crisis and the pandemic. we therefore face strong leadership, and we face the need for action from the eu as we build sustainable economic growth and create new green jobs. we're not going to rebuild the old economy. we're going to build the new green economy. the single market, the digital economy, climate-neutral technology - all of these will be crucial for the new jobs. however, we must also push for a more social and ecological europe, where living and working conditions take place. in that work, we know from sweden that the most successful model for wages is collective bargaining. last but not least, i would also like to raise the issue of gender equality. president von der leyen did not mention the gender equality strategy, but i will mention it because it is good for both women and men, and not least for children and young people who are to grow up in an equal and egalitarian europe.
in writing. there is no doubt that wages must be raised across europe. being able to live on your salary is a foundation on which we built our society. we can never accept a social order in which work does not provide economic security. it is gratifying that ursula von der leyen is saying that she wants to improve the conditions for europe's workers. something needs to be done about low wages across europe, but the solution the commission is proposing in the form of european minimum wages is not the answer. the introduction of binding legislation on pay is outside the eu's competence and contrary to the eu treaty. it also runs counter to the assumptions that were in force when sweden joined the eu, where the swedish labour market model was to remain intact. the swedish labour market model, which involves independent parties setting wages through collective agreements, has over the years yielded good returns for both employees and employers in sweden. in sweden, we should not have political interference in wage formation. we swedish social democrats want to actively contribute to the work in the eu to strengthen the parties on the labour market and to build functioning systems of collective agreements in more countries. we can also support recommendations to countries with statutory minimum wage systems. however, binding legislation on wages is not compatible with our labour market model.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? 'no rest that is not everyone's, no quiet until everything is complete,' said former un secretary-general dag hammarskjöld. these are words we must take to heart. we have a heavy responsibility to take up the fight to uphold human rights and freedoms and to support all the forces fighting for them throughout the world. dr denis mukwege is a shining example of what courage, perseverance and hope can do for human rights. but as is often the case for those who stand up for equality and human rights, he, his colleagues and his family have been the constant targets of hatred and assassination attempts because of the important work he does. it is welcome that dr mukwege is once again under the protection of the un, even if only temporarily. however, it is not acceptable that this should be done only after pressure has been applied. what is the message we are sending to all the human rights defenders? that they'll be left alone when danger strikes? no, that's enough! we need an eu that is committed globally to women's rights in a true feminist foreign policy spirit and that at the same time continues to actively engage with the un to safeguard the situation of human rights defenders who risk their lives every day for the freedom of others.
madam president, it’s time for the eu to not only talk the talk but also walk the walk. the eu is built on the notion that we are stronger together and that fundamental rights and values must never be an issue up for compromise. i’m happy, therefore, that there is still an overwhelming majority here in this parliament who stand up for those rights, even though there are a few extremists on that side who are trying to say otherwise. however, i am worried about the current developments at the same time. we see attacks on independent media, on lgbtqi people, we see attacks on women, we see attacks on migrants. we also see a politicisation of the independent judiciary. i welcome, of course, the new rule of law report presented last week, but we need to go further. this resolution suggests important, measurable goals, involvement of civil society and a broader scope to also include fundamental rights and democracy. we must make sure that the eu does not remain a toothless tiger, because this report is good – but we must make sure to provide it with teeth. one of the best ways of providing the tiger with teeth is through stronger conditionality linked to the budget. our values are, for sure, not up for compromise.
madam president, i would like to thank you. citizens' trust is the foundation of european cooperation. taxpayers should feel confident that their money is being used properly. unfortunately, we see many examples of the rule of law being flouted across europe. for us in the moderates, a strong rule of law mechanism is crucial. we need to be much more vigilant in monitoring the use of eu funds. but the new proposal from the presidency is too pale and too watered down. we have to go much harder. no crown should go to governments that challenge democracy or encourage corruption. it must be a crystal clear principle in this budget and in all future budgets. it is basically a question of the credibility of european cooperation as a whole, of our control over how the money is spent. corrupt and undemocratic forces should not be supported by the swedish taxpayers.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament, i thank you for this start to an interesting and i am sure fruitful exchange of ideas. today's debate shows that, despite differences in views on some points, we share the common objective of establishing a sound budget for 2021. let me address the concerns raised by your group as follows: many of the objections that we receive to the council position concern the council's approach to the preparation of its position on the draft budget 2021. this arithmetical approach of the council is linear and does not yet take into account the possibly faster implementation schedules of certain programmes such as the neighbourhood instrument, development cooperation and international cooperation. the council is prepared, as i said at the beginning of today's debate, to clarify these technical details in the context of the conciliation on the basis of the commission's letter of amendment which is still pending. we have reduced staff expenditure in line with our approach to stabilising the workforce; the increase proposed by the various institutions is, in our view, achievable by means of a shifting of the workforce. i would stress that these savings have no impact on individual salaries whatsoever. the commission has decided to temporarily reduce the number of posts it will hold by 140: we are open to the commission's proposals. as regards how the additional needs of the decentralised agencies can be met, taking into account our view of stabilising the overall workforce, we believe that the 10% reduction in travel and subsistence costs is justified by the fact that there will be fewer meetings, conferences and other events requiring physical presence, not only in 2020 but also in 2021. because we're going to be stuck with what we do in video conferencing for a while. the question has been put to us by parliament to adjust the nomenclature of the budget, particularly in heading 6. it may be a very technical question, but the budgetary structure does touch the very heart of the role we have to play as the budgetary authority, the european parliament and the council. we will consider all the official proposals of the european parliament as we prepare the council's mandate for our final conciliation. i would also like to say a few words about the questions raised by the complex of the multiannual financial framework and the own resources system. as i said at the beginning, our three institutions are discussing these questions in a different context. the council will shortly adopt a new own resources decision which will include a new own resources category based on plastic packaging waste. the european council also invited the commission to submit proposals for a carbon capture and digital levy in the first half of 2021. finally, the union will work towards the introduction of other own resources, which may include a financial transaction tax, in the course of the next multiannual financial framework. the council's position does not address the impact of the next generation eu instrument on union programmes, as the amounts to be used for expenditure are external assigned revenue. however, we share the view of the european parliament that the budgetary authority should have a greater role in relation to external earmarked revenue, in order to ensure adequate control and participation in the use of this revenue. we are working together on this, as you know. in conclusion, i welcome the position of the european parliament on the 2021 budget. many of these points will certainly be taken up and thus made the subject of mediation. we can rely on the commission johannes to act as an honest broker to bridge any differences between our positions and to propose balanced compromise solutions. europe as a whole needs a budget that meets the needs of its citizens and builds confidence in a better future, especially in these difficult times. i am confident that with the full commitment of the european parliament, the commission and ourselves, we can reach an agreement in time. so thank you again for your attention.
in writing. once again, this year too, we are debating a disappointing budget, which does not provide concrete answers to the real problems of citizens, even in the face of the terrible crisis produced by the coronavirus pandemic. italy, which i remember is a major net contributor to the eu budget, does not need to hear the same slogans that have been repeated for years now, which make this europe seem perfect at all times, when in reality it is not at all. how can one persist in the usual mistakes, which i have seen for years now? the same administrative waste, the same waste of taxpayers' money, the same promises of solidarity that are not kept. we are discussing a budget which, for a change, shows no sign of rationalising its expenditure. european companies are closing down because of the current crisis, and the costs of this parliament are increasing. the european union has also been very active in the fight against terrorism, and we have seen the results of the work of the european union in the fight against terrorism. the budget of the institutions is nothing but the political strategy of the eu expressed in figures. and as i look at the numbers proposed each year, i am more and more convinced of how much this europe needs to be reviewed, together with its priorities.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am grateful to you for the opportunity to take part in this debate, because gender equality and gender justice is one of the priorities of the german presidency of the council of the european union. we have decided to focus on two main priorities during the short presidency. this is the still massive inequality in the labour market in terms of the gender pay gap, which is 14.8% on average in the european union well over 20% in my home country. this is not compatible with our idea of equal pay for equal work in the same place. another issue is the still dramatically high level of violence against women. we want to support initiatives in this area too. and that brings me to the issue that has been on the council since 2017 without any substantial progress. in 2017, under the maltese presidency of the council, commissioner dalli made a final attempt to reach an agreement on women on board. we all share a common interest here: the glass ceiling must be broken. we have made considerable progress in the political sphere, but we are still a long way from achieving parity in parliamentary gender equality. we have a 38% share of women in the european parliament. this is not enough, because half of our society is made up of women, who have a natural share of representativeness. we are dealing with two dangerous forms of segregation. one is the horizontal segregation and the other is the vertical segregation. there are still some sectors in our society where men are in charge. the proportion of women in management positions is significantly underrepresented, particularly in the technology and business sectors, but also in the sciences and the media sector. and then we have another kind of segregation in the sense that men are not willing to take on responsibility in certain areas, which are, by the way, usually paid much less. this is family care, this is health care, this is nursing, where men still have very little role to play. that's why the gender pay gap is so important, because these are also jobs that are typically paid significantly less. and men often say, "no, we don't want to get involved in that. you know my government's position. i am not here as a representative of the federal government, but as a representative of the council. so i want to reassure you all that despite the controversial discussions in my own government, we see ourselves as honest brokers, especially since i can explain to you that legal regulations do something positive. we have introduced a quota for business leaders, which has resulted in at least one third of the positions on the supervisory boards being filled by women. this is a step in the right direction. in the boards, where there is no legal regulation yet, the proportion is unfortunately still well below 10%. i hope that we can take a big step forward again, through intensive consultation and also by supporting the commitment of commissioner dalli, so that the european union can once again demonstrate that it is able to set benchmarks at international level in matters of gender justice and equality. and we, as the german presidency of the council, will be fulfilling our responsibility here as brokers and as bridge builders in the council.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, thank you for putting this important topic of women in corporate decision-making on the agenda today. i am grateful for your continued strong support to our fight for gender equality, non-discrimination and inclusion for all eu citizens. i’m equally grateful for the support you are showing these days on moving the commission’s proposal for the directive on gender balance on corporate boards of listed companies forward. we urgently need progress on this file, now more than ever. progress regarding female representation on corporate boards and business leadership positions remains very slow and uneven across the eu. the figures from the gender equality index of the european institute for gender equality are of concern. they clearly show that we need urgent action. on average, only around 28% of board members of the largest publicly-listed companies registered in the eu are women, and women still only account for 8% of ceos. these are not the numbers of a gender-equal europe, nor does it reflect the talent available. beyond being a matter of equality or lack thereof, this is a clear waste of human capital. evidence shows that a broad range of talents and skills in the boardroom contributes to better decisions, better corporate governance, and public trust in business. this is what drives economic growth. despite their capabilities and educational achievements, women continue to struggle against long-held and systemic entry barriers into corporate boards and leadership positions. we need to ask why. one major obstacle is the lack of transparency in the selection process and qualification criteria, and this is what the commission’s proposal aims to address. i must be clear again on this point. the commission is not imposing binding gender quotas. what the proposal does instead is to require the establishment of transparent procedures for the selection of board positions in the largest eu-listed companies to address the gender imbalance. such an approach places qualification and merit of candidates as the main criterion for board membership. with this approach, which places qualification and merit upfront, it is hard to understand why we are not managing to adopt this directive. i regret to say that, after 8 years, we still are waiting for a general approach in council. at the same time, this commission has put equality high on the political agenda. the commission is striving to lead by example. for the first time in its history we are closest to a gender-balanced college. the commission has also just adopted new measures to reinforce gender equality at all levels of management within the commission. the objective to unblock the negotiations is one of my core tasks. it is also a priority. it is also a priority action in the gender equality strategy for 2020-25, which we adopted earlier this year. the commission has been engaged in discussions with opponents and supporters of the initiative. our message is clear: the adoption of the directive would represent a major step forward in our fight for gender equality in europe. it would send a strong, clear message to the eu citizens and beyond: the european economy makes the best use of all its talent. some voices try to depict this proposal as a burden on companies. experience shows that it is not. on the contrary, it is a tool bringing concrete benefits to european and national economies. i count on your continued support on this file and to make europe a continent where women have the same opportunities as men to reach their full potential.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it is good that this request was addressed to the council today. i would like to thank mrs evelyn regner very much for taking this initiative. gender equality, gender justice, is one of the most important issues we have here in the european union. equality is one of our core principles in the european union. and when i look at the way the situation of women has developed in the member states, i can only say that there is a lot, a lot to be done. the directive is highly symbolic. the directive is not enough, of course, i think the mindset must also change. but the directive also has its significance. the situation of women has not improved, i believe, especially in the corona times, but on the contrary, it has rather worsened. when i look at: in my home country, women's occupations - that is, occupations in which many women are involved - have been considered as systemically relevant. without all our women in the hospitals, the nursing homes, the schools, the day-care centres, the supermarkets and and and, ladies and gentlemen, we would not have got through the crisis so well. appreciation was there, but that was it. but of course, that's not enough. there must be a shake up in society that women have equal opportunities and equal rights. i have a question to the commission because it has been pointed out that this directive has been on hold in the council for many years. i know from the debates we have had in the legal affairs committee over the last few months that the issue of the legal basis was one of the issues - alongside the political debate - that many have said - including germany - that this is a breach of subsidiarity. i would therefore ask again: what steps have been taken - also by the commission - to clarify the issue of the legal basis here? because i think that's the core of what it's all about.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, women are an asset, an asset in every company when they are also on the board. the most successful companies are those with the most diverse board of directors. yet there are still too few, and we know voluntary measures are not enough. we need binding measures. we need binding quotas – they are key. only then will women have a fair chance. we have the newest european institute for gender equality (eige) data from june 2020. countries with a binding quota have about 10% more women on boards than in countries with only voluntary measures – and that’s what we see. and countries which did nothing, they have almost no progress. and yet we know, for so many years already, this ‘women on boards’ directive has been blocked in the council. and so therefore, we say: we don’t accept, in the european parliament, this snail’s pace. we need to speed up in order really to have equal chances. therefore my question to the council: what are you doing? what are you really doing? because we want to progress. and we see it in these days, the council also nominates again two men for the european central bank. okay, this is another issue. but we really have to speed up, so please take this on board. we, the european parliament, we don’t give up. (applause),
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my colleague manon aubry just pointed out to me that in such an important debate for gender equality we have, like, 25 speakers, and only mr roth and i are men in that debate. i think this is really shameful and i would like to say that that we need women on board, but i think we need more men on board in those debates as well. having said so, i think that we absolutely need to unblock that directive: it’s about time. we have had time since 2012 for this, and i would like to say that now we also have the experience of countries that have established those kinds of quotas and that it has actually worked. look at norway: norway has at the moment, thanks to quotas, 35% of women on boards, while in some member states we don’t reach even 10%. so now it’s about time that we do that. also i think that in order to put gender equality at the top of the agenda when a lot of women are suffering inequalities now during the pandemic, eu institutions need to send a clear message that we take that seriously. i know that the presidency is committed to unblock that, and i know that around 18 member states are already convinced. i can only say to the german presidency: please try to unblock that file and make that file a reality by the end of the year.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dalli, why are you here today? is it on merit or do we have to think it's to meet a quota? when women entered the labour market, they were free to choose professions. eight out of ten european health workers are women. is this out of proportion? do we now invent a quota to favour the male presence? this would be lacking in common sense. from the european institutions they threaten us with sanctions, harsh legislation, to keep us controlled and remote-guided in their ideological objectives. but they don't land on people's real concerns. the problems are different in each country, in each company or in each family. they cannot be solved by pre-established quotas, which is proven, moreover, that is not working. if you want to help us, if you want to help women for real, don't treat us as statistics or demand that we imitate men. value us for who we are, women, mothers and excellent professionals. we don't need you to discriminate against anyone to shine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fact that women and men should have the same choices and the freedom to shape their own lives and their own future is the basis of a democratic and equal society, but unfortunately we are not there today. yet the gender equality debate is reduced to a single symbolic issue: private company board membership. haven't we come further than this? to quote a few, an extremely small percentage, the highest elite. it will not solve the gender equality problems faced by 250 million women across europe. indeed, studies have shown that where corporate boards have been allocated quotas, it is always the same women who are given more mandates, not more women who are given mandates. on the other hand, in companies that achieve gender equality on a voluntary basis, the company is more prosperous, has higher returns and has more women at the top. if we're going to tackle gender equality, we need more women in the workforce, more women becoming economically independent, encouraging more women to own property, and more women living free from violence. because i know a whole generation of young women who are ambitious and driven, who want to show what they're about, and they don't just want to sit on corporate boards; they want to lead companies. so let us not break the legs of these young women, and let us not impose quotas and reduce their ambitions to their gender.
mr president, i would like to thank you. last year, the boards of the largest listed companies in the eu member states were 72% male. the representation of women on these boards is shamefully low. for us swedish social democrats this issue is very important. it is a question of gender equality, but it is also a question of better decision-making. it benefits our companies and it benefits our communities. we were going to increase employment. if the eu becomes more equal, over 10 million new jobs would be created, and the eu's gdp per capita would grow by almost 10%. this is according to the european institute for gender equality. what are we waiting for? we swedish social democrats support the directive on a more equal distribution of the sexes. use women's skills and knowledge now. i don't want to wait.
in writing. increasing the participation of women in the highest decision-making bodies of companies is an important goal on the road to equality, and the achievement of this objective must be appropriate to economic and social conditions. we need to support women and promote their entrepreneurship. recruitment and eligibility criteria for posts should be clear and transparent and should take into account the principle of a diversity policy. i believe that the objectives of the draft directive can be sufficiently achieved by national initiatives of varying scope, coverage and effectiveness.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. a late hour, important subject. i hope i can still sort my thoughts out a little. i'm not used to sitting in parliament for so long. but i'm at your service, of course. the situation is dramatic. we launched the youth guarantee in 2013 in response to a terrible economic and social crisis, perhaps a little too late. we also tried to learn from our mistakes, which were not easy at the time. i would advise all of us to draw the right and necessary conclusions very quickly now that youth unemployment is rising dramatically again in far too many member states, because it must be clear to all of us: we must never allow a whole generation of young people to be lost. they expect us to help them to have a perspective and to stay in employment or to get into employment with the necessary qualifications. we have had the commission's proposals tabled on the second day of the german presidency, and i can tell you all - there are not that many now - that we have made a great deal of progress and will soon be able to take a decision in the council. we want the youth guarantee to be strengthened by raising the age limit to a maximum of 29 years; we want more inclusivity. let me make a few more points here. we expect and recommend that member states improve their provision under the youth guarantee, for example by assessing the digital skills of all those who are unemployed and unable to attend school or vocational training. states are also encouraged to provide training and retraining. the offer should be tailored to the needs of the individual who is neither employed nor in training, and in doing so we need to have comprehensible and high standards of quality and fairness. particular attention must be paid to young women and disadvantaged groups, including people with disabilities. they are usually among the first to suffer from a tense situation in our labour markets. finally, we would like to emphasize once again that all member states are strongly encouraged to provide the necessary financial resources. but if i look at the list of countries that are currently facing a dramatic increase in youth unemployment, it will also be crucial for the 'next generation eu' and the new multiannual financial framework to make the funds available quickly, flexibly and precisely where they are needed most: among young people. and you have our full support.
member of the commission. – mr president, i first want to thank the members of the parliament for this question which underlines the importance of youth employment and especially the threat of massive youth unemployment. i share your analysis; i share your description, and i share also your concerns and what the president of the council has just said about our concern: we have to prevent a new lost generation. i think this is a common duty of all of us in the member states and at the level of the union. indeed, youth unemployment is rising very rapidly in certain member states, and therefore, when we compare it to last year august, it has increased by 2.8 percentage points already, reaching 17.6% in the eu in august 2020, and it is significantly higher than the general unemployment rate, which stands at 7.4 in the eu, which shows that the young are much more sensitive to the recession and that they are the first victims of this crisis. tackling youth unemployment is a pressing priority, given the hard impact also of the covid-19 crisis on young generations. it is only with resolute, as the president of the council has said, bold and swift action that we can turn things around before the situation aggravates further. our youth employment support – yes, as we call it – package adopted in july provides a first step for such a resolute action. but the commission cannot do it alone; we have to rely on member states, but we also have to rely on the european parliament. this is why i welcome parliament’s resolution on the youth guarantee. i share your view that the fight against youth unemployment is a common political priority for parliament. it is certainly a common priority for the commission, and i’m sure also, as i heard now, it is a priority for the member states, as it contributes to achieving the union’s objective of sustainable and inclusive growth and social and economic resilience. therefore i welcome what the president has just said, that the german presidency is about to adopt the proposal of our strengthened youth guarantee. the european parliament and its members have a crucial role to play in the next chapter of our reinforced youth guarantee. you can fuel the national debates like no other institution. you can raise the bar in terms of our joint ambition for implementing the reinforced youth guarantee and improving it further in the years to come. first and foremost, the commission counts on the european parliament for ensuring adequate levels of eu funding, supporting the success story that is the youth guarantee. but as a response to your first question, certainly the commission is never happy if the funding is reduced. but we need to maximize synergies between the youth guarantee, the european social fund plus, react-eu and the recovery and resilience facility, as well as the many other relevant eu funds and instruments now available to the member states. and i think we can pool a lot of funding, a lot of resources for the fight against youth employment and especially by creating jobs, and i think this is also one of your major concerns. our ambition must be – and that has been clearly expressed by the commission – that we invest at least 22 billion on youth employment, and i also call on the member states to support this ambition. we need to create and save jobs – and, i insist, quality jobs – which also answers your question, and the recovery has to be focused on the creation of quality jobs, and that’s the meaning of the next generation eu. and when i say quality jobs, i mean not these precarious jobs that do not allow young people to plan their lives, to found a family and to afford decent housing. too many young people, precisely those in precarious jobs, were the first to be fired, to lose their jobs, to lose their income, and i think that we have to draw the right lessons from that. i know the call to review the quality framework for traineeships concerning the obligation for remuneration of traineeships. i have some doubt if this is legally possible, but i’m sure that in the years to come we can further develop a joint understanding, and also a civil society and social partners would be able to contribute to such an understanding too. and paying young people who are at work, even in the context of a traineeship, should be part of the social responsibility of companies. and by the way, i think a lot of companies have this social responsibility. finally, let me be clear about the monitoring. supporting the quantitative monitoring of youth guarantee schemes based on the established indicative framework is crucial and remains a priority. we are looking into strengthening this process, and the parliament’s committee on employment and social affairs will be our partner in this endeavour. before i close, allow me one word on vocational education and training. vocational education, be it at the very start of a career or along the career, is not only the best transition between education and the labour market but it is also a truly effective way for re- and upskilling. the commission has renewed the european alliance for apprenticeships to ensure a sustained offer of apprenticeships and to align it with the twin digital and green transitions. moreover we propose the council recommendation on vocational education and training to modernise and reform those systems, and under the german presidency we had a very fruitful meeting in osnabrück really to promote vocational training. in closing, let me reiterate our appreciation for the work of the european parliament and its continued efforts to contribute to our common efforts to make the recovery just and fair for all, including also the young.
in writing. – since 2013, the youth guarantee has created opportunities and has helped over 24 million young people to find employment or participate in a continuing education, apprenticeship or traineeship programme. despite that, too many young people are still in precarious work, and too many have to leave their region or country to find a decent job. the situation has become even more complicated in the context of the pandemic. i welcome the creation of a reinforced youth guarantee covering a wider age bracket to include young people aged 15-29 and applying a more individualised and targeted approach. i recall the need to make the youth guarantee more inclusive and to avoid any form of discrimination. i therefore insist for the strengthening of the financing of the youth guarantee. i join my colleagues in deploring the fact that that the european council significantly reduced the amounts, which is wholly contradictory to the union’s ambitions. i reiterated our request that member states should invest at least 3 % of their esf+ resources under shared management in tackling youth unemployment. i finally call upon the commission to explore the idea of an eu web portal specifically dedicated to traineeships and apprenticeships in the eu.
rapporteur. – madam president, so this is the yearly report on the implementation of the common commercial policy. the european parliament wrote the latest report of this kind in 2018 but it did not write one last year because of the european elections. i therefore focus on the recent developments in the two last years and i look to the future, because this is also the input to the commission’s trade policy review and to the incoming trade commissioner. the report covers ongoing negotiations, implementation of free trade agreements, wto issues, relations with the us, china, the uk and other important partners, as well as smes, trade and sustainable developments and digital trade and services. this report is also our response to the covid-19 crisis. my main message here is that of european competitiveness, that this is not the time for protectionism. the response to a decline in trade due to the crisis shouldn’t be political control of companies’ value chains. instead, rules-based free trade is even more important now and we must diversify our value chains, not shorten them. this is the way forward to secure our resilience, supply and growth, and trade agreements play an important role in this. and we need to remove trade barriers. export restrictions on the internal market are unacceptable; so are those to third countries. in the last few years, we have closed trade deals with canada, japan, singapore and vietnam. we need to finish deals with mercosur, mexico, australia, new zealand and taiwan, to mention a few. we must resolve trade disputes with the us, no matter who sits in the white house and we need the us by our side, not least to handle unfair competition from china, and we need close ties to the uk. with this report we, the european parliament, take our position for the future. we push back protectionism and pave the way for a competitive europe. i would like to thank the shadows and all the advisers that have worked on this report.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would also like to thank wholeheartedly the honourable members of this house, because they made this debate very rich and covered a lot of topics about the last european council and the next one. i will try to cover as much as i can within the time limit. first, i would like to underline the fact that president michel covered quite extensively the issues linked with foreign policy, but i feel that it was very much present in a lot of interventions, so let me add a couple of points on behalf of the commission. first and foremost, i would like to underline the unity which was achieved in this european council: the unity which, as many of you said, took us quite some time. therefore, i would also refer all of you to the clear statement of our president that, clearly, if comes to human rights and to sanction regimes, we would prefer in the commission to use the passerelle clause and to move to the qualified majority vote, because i believe that in this case we would be much more action-based, more operational, and it would allow us to be much faster in adopting sometimes very difficult decisions. i would also like to do one more thing. i would like to send a very clear and positive message to the people of greece and cyprus: we have your back. you have our unconditional solidarity and strong support, and we stand united in defence of your sovereignty and of your legitimate sovereign rights. i think that it’s also important to underscore the fact that the eu leaders have made it very clear, in the case of renewed unilateral actions by turkey, that we are ready to use our restrictive measures. that message was also very clear. but we want to reach a solution through dialogue. many of you – i think the last was mr biedroń – made reference to belarus. i think here our unity was simply a moral obligation, and therefore i am so glad that today the european union is united at the side of the people of belarus and that we would fight and push for the right of all belarus citizens to elect their president through new elections, which would be free and fair. this is the european union’s position. therefore, i would underline once again the gradual approach in the case of sanctions against the concrete persons of belarus. the leaders of the european parliament – mr weber, mr cioloş, ms garcía pérez – have made very important reference to the fact that the eu must remain a global player, that we have to make sure that the european union is a geopolitical union as well, and that we have to reduce the dependencies on third countries – as was underlined by mr lamberts – and that what is very important is the jobs, jobs, jobs in this crisis. i want to tell you that we in the commission hear you loud and clear, and all our actions are aimed at making sure that the european union remains a global economic superpower, a green and digital transformation leader and a social model for the rest of the world, and that we are the first major economy to put competitive sustainability at the core of our policies. we are working very hard to achieve what madame loiseau described so well as the strategic autonomy of our economy. to achieve that, we are strengthening the pillar of social rights. very soon we will come to present to you our proposals on the minimum wage and on pay transparency. we are going to use the just transition mechanism in a very efficient way to make sure that nobody is left behind in this very demanding twin green and digital transition. we will introduce the concrete steps in applying the new industrial strategy, where we will use fully the convening power of the commission and the economic strength of the european single market. i am sure you have noticed, because many of you are working on very concrete projects linked with the forging of our new european alliances to make sure that the eu will be the leader in all key technologies of the 21st century. with mr ertug we are working together on the european battery alliance and, within two and a half years, we have completely reversed the table where europe is now the number one direction of foreign investment when it comes to batteries. we are investing three times more in europe in the battery sectors than in china, and we want to achieve the same result when it comes to hydrogen, quantum computing and critical raw materials. we are also very conscious that, to achieve all that, we need to cut red tape and reduce the administrative burden. we will come very soon to you with very concrete proposals in that direction. ms geese referred to the importance of a state aid review and mr jurzyca underlined the importance of the single market. we are working very hard to remove as many obstacles as possible on the single market to re-energise and revive it, and we are currently undergoing the most in-depth review of the state aid rules in the history of the commission. very soon, in the middle of october, we will start to receive the first recovery plans from our member states, and we clearly want these plans to be focused on people, on their jobs and on the twin transition. we want 20% of the financial support to be used for digital means, 37% for green goal deals, and we want to use this unique chance for every single member state to leap forward, to build new economies, not to restore the old ones. and i believe that, with the help of all of you, we will achieve that. i would like to reassure ms marques and mr mureşan that the commission will do all in its power to be the best facilitator to achieve the speedy agreement on the next multiannual financial perspective and the next generation eu mechanism. last, a word to mr silva pereira on brexit. i really would like to thank this house for the strong support which we feel in every step of the negotiations and in every round of talks. i would like to reassure you that michel barnier on his track and i myself on the withdrawal agreement implementation will negotiate in good faith until the very last minute possible, despite very difficult circumstances.
the joint debate is closed. i would like to inform the honourable members that due to travel restrictions, interpreters from malta are only available to a limited extent and therefore only passive interpretation from maltese into other languages is guaranteed this morning. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the forthcoming covid pandemic is a matter of great concern to eu citizens. we are still unclear about the eu's plan to combat the pandemic and its consequences. we also do not have a european response to how we will continue to live and what measures will be taken to try to manage this crisis. member states still apply different requirements and restrictions related to the covid pandemic, which is highly divisive, creating a lot of uncertainty and instability for both people and businesses in the eu. the internal market of the eu. we have already lost over five million jobs in the eu because of this pandemic. according to the international labour organisation, over 12 million jobs could be lost in the eu this year. these are huge numbers and the eu's response must be swift, coordinated and effective. it is time to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to put in place clear eu-level measures and rules to provide clarity for our people and businesses.
the european council of 1 and 2 october was marked by a major effort to strengthen policy coordination, which is key to the union's response to the challenges posed by the pandemic and the dynamics of geopolitical change. i welcome the effort made in steadily stepping up the global response to the pandemic and, in particular, the need to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and to adapt industrial policy to the challenges of recovery and transformation. i would also stress the ambitious approach of an articulated digitalisation strategy, to which it has been decided to allocate at least 20% of the resources of the recovery and resilience mechanism. the council's agenda for 15 and 16 october follows this line, both in affirming a negotiating position in the context of brexit that upholds the principles of good negotiation and in the approach envisaged for greater coordination of the response to the challenges of climate change. good intergovernmental coordination is essential to ensure that all the necessary institutional pillars are aligned, and that the next generation funds (react eu, rdp and mff) crucial to the health, economic and social coherence of the eu, in the face of the challenges of recovery and modernisation, are approved and implemented as soon as possible.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the 'european forest strategy: a way forward' (a9-0154/2020) (2019/2157 (ini)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session.
rapporteur. – mr president, first, just a couple of words to set the stage. we already have a biodiversity strategy from the commission. now, here today we are talking about the eu forest strategy. having said that, i would now like to explain to this chamber how a balanced forest strategy should and could be built for us. forests and the forest-based sector have a crucial role to play in achieving the union’s climate, environmental and biodiversity goals, namely within the green deal. the enhancement of biodiversity, the fight against climate change and the transitions to a circular bioeconomy and to a fossil-free society will never be possible without multifunctional, healthy, and sustainably managed forests. the commission will publish its new forest strategy during the first quarter of 2021. the previous strategy was published in 2013, so a new one is now needed for the post-2020 period. we need an ambitious and self-standing eu forest strategy. it should highlight a balanced approach between the economic, ecological and social sustainability of forests to ensure the continuity of the multifunctional role of forests in the european union. the new eu forest strategy should act as an effective coordination tool between the various eu forest-related policies, taking into account the whole forest-based value chain. forests and the forest-based value chain offer crucial climate benefits, such as the promotion of carbon sequestration, the storage of carbon in wood-based products, and the substitution of fossil-based raw materials and energy. in addition, it is crucial to ensure appropriate measures to prevent natural disasters such as bark beetle epidemics, droughts and forest fires. the own initiative report to be voted on today and tomorrow is a balanced one, and the positions of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) were taken into account in the negotiations. the report addresses the importance of enhancing forest biodiversity; just to mention, the word ‘biodiversity’ is mentioned 39 times in this report. the report points out that healthy and resilient forests are a precondition for the general well-being of our forests, as well as for their economic and social sustainability. it also addresses afforestation and reforestation as suitable tools in enhancing forest cover. the report calls for the protection of primary forests. yes indeed, it does, contrary to some of the claims that the members of this chamber have received. and it calls on the commission to introduce a definition for old-growth forests. it also emphasises the important role of sustainable forest management and bioeconomy at a time when forests are playing a key role in offering sustainable solutions to the challenges of our time. lastly, the report notes that the jobs within the sector are dependent on resilient and well-managed forest ecosystems in the long term.
the committee on energy, research and technology (cern) has tabled an opinion on the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. for me, forests and forestry represent climate benefits, but also the hope that is usually so very often missing in the climate and environmental debate. because not only does the forest absorb carbon dioxide, it also plays a key role in reducing emissions, by replacing fossil-based materials and products with bio-based ones. we need to protect and develop this. i am therefore pleased that the report takes a strong stand for the bio-based circular economy. political ambition matters, but it is through new technology and innovation that we can reduce our emissions in the future. we therefore need to have more confidence in the innovative and inventive power of people and businesses. because that's the only way we're going to succeed in reducing our emissions and reaching our climate goals.
mr president, i would like to thank you. forests are home to a priceless biodiversity, and as sinks for carbon, they are crucial to achieving climate goals. in order to preserve the arthritic edema and to save the climate, we all have an interest in preserving forests throughout the eu. i come from a country that is more than half forested. forests are one of our main resources for growth and benefit, and must be managed responsibly and sustainably. the eu will of course promote responsible forest management that combines economic interests with the protection of biodiversity. however, it is important to remember that forestry knowledge is primarily local. forests and the conditions for forestry and forest management vary enormously from one member state to another. forests are therefore best decided locally and must remain a national competence.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as i stand here today, i'm actually both surprised and quite frustrated. i am surprised that there is still, at least among some people in this chamber, such a lack of knowledge and understanding of the climate issue. but also frustrated that so many of you are using political rhetoric that is far, far from what science shows is required. do you think - and i am addressing my colleagues on the right in particular - that you really have the expertise behind you? or do you deliberately choose to lie when you say that the little you want to contribute would be enough? because it's not. but today we have a chance to do something that's really important. we know what it takes to do that. it's to vote on a proposal that will ensure that we reduce emissions by at least 65 percent by 2030. and then all the tools that are needed to get there, like a proper carbon budget. it's the least we can do, it's the least we have to do. we have a chance to make a difference today. take that chance. this may be the last time we get a chance like this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we don't have time to waste. the eu needs a climate law that makes our ambitious climate targets legally binding today, preferably yesterday. the liberals want to see a 65 percent reduction in emissions by 2030. but we also want to focus on how to get there; climate goals mean nothing without cost-effective, sustainable solutions. that is why we are in favour of a common carbon tax, of the abolition of subsidies for fossil fuels, of investing heavily in research and new technologies, and of nuclear power and carbon capture as part of the solution. the united states has turned its back on the paris agreement. the eu is now doing just the opposite. the eu is taking the lead and changing course. that is why the liberals are saying yes to a strong eu and yes to an ambitious european climate policy.
i have to say, madam president, you guys! the planet is overheated. europe has a share of responsibility for this situation and therefore we must also share in the responsibility for resolving it. we have to act now before it's too late. that is why we need an ambitious european climate law. if we don't get it, we're passing the bill on to future generations, and that's simply not going to work. i am therefore glad to be able to vote in favour of the report by the committee on the environment, because it sets an ambitious target for reduction by 2030. and we are demanding a new sub-target. we want a target for 2040. we demand that both the eu and the member states take responsibility and have binding objectives. i believe that this climate law and the way we do things in the european parliament can help to ensure that we can both save the environment and secure future generations. i think it is absolutely crucial that the eu, as one of the richest regions in the world, takes the lead and shows the rest of the world that we have to deal with this climate crisis. we can do this. if we do that, if we get this report through, we can actually change the coal and steel union into a climate union. what a fine goal for future generations to be able to say yes to. so thank you for that and vote for the report by the committee on the environment. it's the one that's the most ambitious.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the last 30 years, we have been able to reduce our co2 emissions by just over 20 percent. if we want to be climate neutral by 2050, that means we have to achieve 80 percent in the next 30 years. this will be a tremendous act of force, which will present our industry with enormous challenges. the industries with the highest emissions are already making decisions about investments that will have an impact by 2050. the security of planning is fundamental here. i therefore welcome the establishment of the long-term objective of a path towards that goal. but we must plan this path with great care. for our innovative companies, a european showcase of 'climate friendly innovation' can be a great opportunity. but if we want too much too fast, we'll choke the engine that's supposed to get us there. so a clear 'yes' to long-term goals. the path to the goal must be guided by what is possible.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, my delegation supports the objective of climate neutrality at eu level by 2050. europe can play a leading role in the sustainable transition. short-term and long-term objectives are necessary, not least to provide investors with greater certainty. it is good to be ambitious, but i am concerned about the supply that is clearly in progress and where the social and economic consequences are sometimes lost sight of, for example in connection with the increase in the rate of reduction of emissions. moreover, this parliament expects every member state to be or should be climate neutral by 2050, while we do not yet have an impact assessment at the level of each member state. flanders, for example - and i am of course referring to the great diversity among the member states - is a small and densely populated region with extensive energy-intensive clusters on which literally hundreds of thousands of jobs depend. i hear colleagues advocating an energy system based on renewable energy, but without nuclear energy, climate neutrality is an illusion. we are and will continue to advocate a feasible and affordable climate policy that also puts prosperity and competitiveness at its core.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has on several occasions made clear commitments to combat climate change, and today we have the world's first climate law, which sets out these commitments in black and white, in particular the trajectory we must take in the next few years to achieve the objective of climate neutrality in 2050. this is a mandatory path, which must necessarily start with a more ambitious review of the co2 emission reduction targets in 2030. that is why we are asking for a reduction of at least 65%. we are facing a public health emergency and we cannot afford to find ourselves, sooner than science is telling us today, in a real climate emergency with equally devastating effects. acting now, with determination and ambition, is the only way to ensure sustainable growth for future generations. this is the right time to act. the unprecedented crisis caused by the coronavirus has accelerated what was already felt as the need to radically revise our development model. today we have on the table the largest economic aid package in the history of the european union and we must use these resources in a smart and far-sighted way to start a new economic, social and environmental paradigm. that is why we need clear legislation, such as the climate law we are passing today, with clear timetables and targets, which says what direction europe intends to take and which direction it intends not to go back on. i stress, he does not intend to go back!
madam president, i’m very happy to support the eu climate law today. i’m delighted that the european union is providing global leadership in achieving the targets of the paris agreement and providing legal certainty. despite the difficulties this might cause in my country, in ireland, i will be supporting the 60% target for emissions reductions. i do so for a number of reasons, but one i wish to call out. by 2050, the global population will have reached 9 billion; that’s up from 7 billion today. and those 2 billion new citizens will not live in the eu or in developed countries; they will live in developing countries. they will live in parts of developing countries that are vulnerable to environmental shocks: on hillsides, in river deltas. so, what we need to do is to acknowledge that these new citizens will live with the greatest vulnerabilities associated with climate change, having contributed the least, and that is the essence of climate justice based on human rights. so, in this parliament, in 2020, we have an opportunity to do something that we don’t always do, which is to set aside all electoral considerations and do the right thing, and make a down payment for those coming generations against whose credit today’s emissions are being paid.
i have to say, madam president, the covid-19 crisis is a dramatic collective crisis experience for our society. this gives us a taste of what's to come here. we're not going to solve the climate crisis with vaccines, with masks, with medications. the only way to stop the climate crisis is to cut carbon emissions massively. i appeal to the members of this house to support an ambitious climate policy! it's about the goals we set for ourselves. we have to follow up on the measures. support our proposal for 65% savings or at least the 60% compromise, which we might agree to! for the next generations, for our nature, which is already under pressure from warming, but also for our economy. already today we are suffering 14 billion euros of damage every year from climate change. at + 2 degrees we are more likely to be heading towards an estimated 120 billion euros. i also appeal to the industry which is lobbying for less than 50% savings here in the house. please be reasonable. this is short-term. if you want to sustain economic activity in the long term, we need to tackle climate change effectively.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we don't have to reduce the climate debate, or the climate work, to climate populism or pessimism. we can vote for an ambition increase that delivers both reduced emissions and increased economic growth. but that requires the right conditions for companies to change, investment in new technology and innovation, and also ensuring the availability of clean energy. unrealistic targets will never reduce emissions. on the contrary, it risks undermining confidence in the goals we have set together and in climate action in general. we also risk driving businesses and jobs out of europe, and we must be able to make the transition while remaining competitive. to do this, everyone, countries and people, needs to feel involved and share the understanding of the transition. only then can europe change course and not close down.
mr president, i would say to high representative borrell that we all lament the casualties in nagorno—karabakh. we all support a non—military solution. but should we pretend armenia and azerbaijan are tarred with the same brush? no! this is a war of aggression by the azeri dictator aliyev, supported by president erdoğan’s jihadist allies from turkey to enforce the injustice of joseph stalin’s separation of nagorno—karabakh from armenia. sanction aliyev, the aggressor. expel turkey from the osce minsk group. have the courtesy not to portray the suffering people of artsakh as equally belligerent as president aliyev. in the words of andrei sakharov, for azerbaijan the issue of armenia is a matter of ambition, for the armenians of karabakh it is a matter of life and death.
mr president, the conflict in, and over, nagorno-karabakh has, both historically and now in the current escalation of the conflict, deprived many people of their lives and children of the possibility to grow up in peace and security. it is vital that the hostility ends and the two parties to the conflict, armenia and azerbaijan, meet at the negotiation table rather than on the battlefield. there is no way other than a peaceful solution out of this long ongoing conflict. international peace needs to be an international endeavour. it is therefore absolutely unacceptable that countries such as turkey, for example, contribute with mercenaries, among other things, to worsen the situation even more. the eu is a region built on the idea that dialogue is the only way forward for long-lasting peace. it is our duty at the same time to take leadership for those ideas in our neighbouring countries. i am glad that the international community is ready to assist and the eu needs to support the ongoing process in the osce. my questions to the high representative are: first, what is the commission doing to end the conflict, and, second, how are the discussions going with erdoğan in turkey, who has already caused too many conflicts in other regions?
madam president, high representative, for over 40 years human rights defenders and the political opposition have been under constant attack by the regime in iran. their oppression towards the iranian people is heavy and relentless. just this september, amnesty international reported how protesters were subjected to extensive torture following the large popular demonstration last year. feminists, journalists, union leaders, civil society and minorities, such as the kurds and bahai, are sentenced to harsh penalties, including corporal punishment and the death penalty. sadly, this is probably not news to anyone in this room. iran sees some of its citizens as threats. repression happens to real people, people with family and friends. right now, the brother of a swedish inhabitant is facing the death penalty while being held in jail. nasreen sotoudeh and narges mohammadi are the names of additional people in iranian jails that are facing the death penalty. so my question is basically what is the commission doing to prevent the execution of these innocent people, who only dream of democracy and freedom?
mr president, i would like to thank you. in all our member states, the pandemic has put a great strain on both health and elderly care. the staff of these operations, the majority of whom are women, have made outstanding contributions under very high workloads. the situation is different in our various member states. but the crisis has shown that we have shortcomings for which we must take responsibility, and here all the member states must take their responsibility. the responsibility for the welfare of the people, the responsibility for the need for more health and care workers, the responsibility for the need for safe employment and a good working environment. but europe and the eu also have an important role to play in coordinating and supporting action in the field of health and health care, and i welcome several of the messages that the commission has given. i myself come from a strong welfare state, but sweden too needs to make a big effort in the crisis. my socialist government has therefore decided to make further efforts in the field of health care and care for the elderly, and that is precisely what we must do in all member states. building a stronger europe, a stronger welfare state we all share a responsibility for that.
in writing. the who european office has estimated that in the first wave of covid-19 in spring, up to half of virus-related deaths in europe occurred in nursing homes. this must be thoroughly investigated and any omissions and errors must be dealt with in a transparent manner. the eu should set up a committee of inquiry to find out what happened in nursing homes during the first wave of the coronavirus. it is very worrying that in a situation where only about 0.5% of the european population, or 3.7 million europeans, live in nursing homes, half of the coronavirus-related deaths occurred in them. we have to protect our elderly from the coronavirus. we can't let what happened last spring happen again. the operation, resources and level of care of many nursing homes were already in a bad state before the coronavirus pandemic. reports from european nursing homes have been staggering: people with coronavirus have not been taken to a doctor or properly treated. we must find a common european solution to ensure that all europeans are provided with care for the elderly in a manner which respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu needs a common care strategy that provides choice and sufficient resources to organise care.
author. – mr president, i want to make a point of order first, because we had this problem also at the last plenary session. in the urgencies from the session previous to this one, the order was not the d’hondt method. the colleagues asked for it to be like that last session, and i would request that we keep to that. so i’m glad to talk, but i would be the last, following the d’hondt method.
author. – i can stick to the order, but it was not my request last plenary. it was a request from the colleagues from epp and s&d, and i agree with them, because normally the order was the d’hondt method and not the order of tabling the resolutions. in any case, i don’t want to lose any more time. if you think that the order is the one to follow, okay, but it was not the agreement of the colleagues last session, and we changed the order last session in order that the urgencies would be according to the d’hondt method. so i don’t know what the colleagues have to say, but if it is the case, so i’ll take the floor – or we can follow the regular order.
author. – it is not a long-term practice. but in any case, i’m going to start and i’m going to speak in portuguese. i’m sorry for this. – senhor presidente, dawit isaak, cidadão eritreu, mas também sueco, foi detido, pela primeira vez, em 2001. nunca foi levado a julgamento e nunca foi acusado. no entanto, durante o regime de isaías afewerki, já foram detidas milhares de pessoas devido às suas opiniões políticas ou ao seu trabalho enquanto jornalistas independentes. nesta resolução o que fazemos é exigir saber o que se passa com dawit isaak e pedir a libertação imediata e incondicional de todos os prisioneiros de consciência na eritreia. é uma medida básica em linha com o direito internacional. lamentamos também que a eritreia não deixe qualquer margem de ação a defensores de direitos humanos, membros da oposição política ou jornalistas independentes. nesse sentido, apelamos a que todo o parlamento tome posição. como disse, desde 2001 que o sr. isaak está detido e, apesar de já ter sido libertado algumas vezes, a verdade é que volta sempre à prisão. a sua família não sabe dele. é um cidadão da união europeia, temos a obrigação de ter respostas.
author. – mr president, first and foremost, i want to thank all my colleagues for the good cooperation that has made this resolution possible – an urgency that talks about real people’s lives, because oppression and injustice are not only words. right now, and for 19 years, the swedish and european journalist and citizen, dawit isaak, has been unlawfully imprisoned by the oppressing regime in eritrea. for 19 years, his wife and his children have tried to do everything they can to get him released. dreaming and peacefully acting for democracy must never be a crime. there is something rotten in the world when people can be jailed and in the worst cases, be deprived of their lives, just because they dream of a better society, a better world. dawit isaak must immediately receive all the help he can get, both medical and consular. firm action is now required. we demand the immediate release of dawit isaak and all other political prisoners, journalists, opposition and innocent civilians. martin luther king wisely once said: ‘in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.’ to dawit isaak and his family, i just want to say that you have many friends in this parliament and we will not stay silent until the day dawit isaak is back home in sweden in safety.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the problem is bigger than that. of course, our parliament is right to demand, over and above political divisions, the release of a man who has spent so many years in prison. he is a citizen of one of the member countries of the european union. but this is not just about him, this is about the broader problem of the eritrean authorities persecuting religious groups, specifically christians, catholics, and it happens all the time. in calling for the release of david isaac, we should also be very strong in demanding an end to the religious persecution of people who profess their faith and have the right to do so. it is good that the european parliament is speaking out on this, but it is not - i stress this very strongly - an isolated case. this repressive action by the eritrean authorities has been going on for a long time and is to be condemned in the strongest terms. i think we need to do this very firmly.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it has been 19 years since the swedish-iranian journalist dawit isaak was imprisoned in eritrea. he never got a trial or a conviction. he was imprisoned for exercising his basic human right, his freedom of speech. he had the courage to criticize the eritrean government and to demand democratic reforms. this summer, however, we received indications that dawit isaak is still alive. it's incredibly hopeful. that is precisely why the work to secure his release must now be stepped up, and that is why we are now trying to gather broad support in the european parliament for his release. the eu and the world must raise their voices against the regime in eritrea, and we must ensure that our aid does not go to the eritrean government, in a country that is very much dependent on aid. around the world, journalists and human rights defenders are being jailed. we must not let them fall into oblivion, because that is exactly what regimes like eritrea want, to be forgotten. but we're not going to forget, and we're not going to be quiet. because the message to the eritrean government must be clear from the eu: release dawit isaak now!
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. 6 955 days, 6 955 nights, that is how long swedish-iranian journalist dawit isaak has been imprisoned in eritrea without trial. he's been denied access to his family, his lawyer, and diplomatic contacts in the meantime. we take the right to express our opinions for granted here. but in other parts of the world, that could get you locked up for 19 years. the eritrean regime's brutality, repression and violations of human rights and freedoms are unprecedented. dawit isaak is a citizen of the european union. his cause is the cause of the european union. it is the duty of the eu to do everything possible to secure his release. it is a high priority for the eu's foreign affairs chief, mr borrell. the european union must step up pressure on eritrea to release dawit isaak and all other prisoners of conscience. freedom of the media and freedom of expression must be respected. in recent years, eritrea has received many millions of euros in eu aid. this has to stop. our common resources should never finance dictatorships and oppression. but there is hope. david's daughter bethlehem told me this summer that her father is alive. now, please help us get dawit back to his family, where he belongs. free dawit now!
for the renew group. president. - the debate is closed. authoritarian regimes around the world believe they can imprison free thought, free speech, to silence their people, to take away their voice. dawit isaak uses his voice, his human right, for freedom of speech, and for that he has been in prison for 19 years. 19 years in prison without trial, no contact with the outside world. for 19 years, dawit isaak has not been allowed to be the father of his children. i know our world is shaking right now, and we have many challenges. but free speech is no exception. it is also being persecuted here on our own continent, even here in the only union of democracies. there are heroes, those who work tirelessly, who fight every day for free speech. dawit isaak, who is still standing today, after 19 years, is one such hero, and his struggle must not be forgotten in this house. i therefore expect nothing less from the european parliament than to take a clear stand for freedom of speech and to demand the immediate release of dawit isaak and that the government in asmara stop all violations of human rights. free dawit isaak - what?
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i want to say goodbye to you, my reader, until we meet again in the next story. there's another book coming. i'll say goodbye for this time. this was written by dawit isaak. but there have not been enough texts since then, since he has been imprisoned for 19 years. 6,955 days in prison. there are many of us who have not given up. we will continue to fight for dawit isaak, for his family and for justice. free dawit isaak! he is dead!
mr president, i would like to thank you. many of us today in our connected world spend many, many hours online. at the same time, online fraud, sex crimes, and the sale of illegal products are also taking place. hate, threats, and fake news are easily spread, and we've seen that especially now during the pandemic. we need to both stop online crime, but also protect people's freedom online. it's a foundation of our democracy. in dictatorships, they have a hard time keeping these thoughts separate. but within the eu, which is nevertheless based on a community of values, we have a responsibility to do so. i therefore want to see a new law where internet platforms effectively remove illegal content, without creating incentives for these platforms to conduct online censorship. because we all remember the debate about link taxes, upload filters and the gdpr mess. that's why it's crucial that we maintain the limit of liability for platforms and ensure that only illegal content is removed, not satire or political views. for europe to lead the digitisation, and people in sweden and the eu to be able to use digital platforms in a safe and secure way. but politicians' zeal to clean up the internet must not override freedom of speech or create excessive hassle for small businesses, because then we do a disservice to both freedom and security.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is clear that the eu's agricultural policy as it stands today favours heavily industrialised large-scale agriculture, and this at the expense of these important, more small-scale, sustainable alternatives and initiatives that exist. hundreds of billions of dollars should not go to those who already have the most or to promote practices that actually in the long run can cause problems for all of us. the core of agricultural policy should be a solidarity fund for the conversion of european agriculture in a sustainable direction. farmers themselves know very well, probably better than most of us, that both climate change and biodiversity loss pose direct and long-term threats to our food supply. the three largest groups in this parliament could use their power for change and improvement. but unfortunately, they've more or less joined together now to defend and preserve the old. but i also know that there are members of parliament in the three groups who want to see a change. i hope you will now choose to vote for the animals, nature and the future of the countryside.
in writing. today, 38% of the eu budget goes to agriculture. at the same time, the evidence of the reckless exploitation of labor in the sector is never ending. it's about people working for poor wages and conditions. many times they also live in appalling conditions. authorities in europe testify to the particular vulnerability of women, who sometimes live as slaves, working long shifts in the fields during the day and being forced to have sex with their owners at night. we have become sick of human suffering when we accept that almost 40% of the eu budget goes to a sector where 4 million people work in illegal forms of employment. this week, we have the opportunity to do something real for these people. we must now tighten up the rules so that no agricultural aid goes to companies which do not respect the laws and collective agreements in force. our group has tabled amendments to this effect, which we hope will be supported by a majority in the european parliament. anything else would be indecent. we must stop turning a blind eye to human suffering.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner gentiloni for his introduction. covid-19 has brought both economic and social pressures. various measures have been taken, both within the eu and, above all, in our member states. but there's still a lot of work to be done. especially now that the pandemic has unfortunately picked up speed in many parts of europe. as a social democrat, i believe it is important that recovery is based on measures that include everyone, regardless of background, and that the solutions must be forward-looking. we're going to build a new green economy, not go back to the old one. it is about strengthening social europe. today we have an imbalance between people's opportunities for a good life, both within the eu and between member states. we know that equality brings high returns for social development, health and the economy. so we have everything to gain from having common ambitions. we must therefore, as the commissioner has said, raise the ambition of the work on the social pillar. it is a question of a more social and equal europe, and to achieve this we must seize the opportunities of the eu's single market, promote job creation, increase investment, make the transition to the digital society and, above all, make the climate change change change. we need a new long-term strategic agenda within the eu, with concrete objectives and commitments. and in that way we can raise ambition and pave the way for a more equal union for more justice. we all benefit from this, not least our citizens in the eu.
the committee on international trade has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the forest whispers of the labors of the ancestors. when i walk in the forests of my homeland, there are traces everywhere of generations of work for the good of future generations. so expressed a friend to me when i asked some acquaintances what the forest meant to them. i come from a country that is more than half forested. forests are one of our most important resources, generating growth and benefit, and have been managed with care and long-term vision by generations of forest owners long before sustainability became an international concept. the forest is the lungs of the earth, a pantry, an energy resource. the forest is home to priceless biodiversity and a place of peace of mind. as a carbon sink, the forest is absolutely vital to our efforts to save the climate. but at the same time, a warming climate threatens the future of forests. deforestation is a global problem, a threat to the climate, a threat to the survival of species. but it's also a threat to long-term economic growth. illegal logging is not just a source of environmental problems. it also leads to poverty, tax revenue shortfalls and the risk of increased corruption. it is extremely important to get more countries to work together on sustainable trade in forest products, and to do so together with industry and in collaboration with civil society. the eu's flegt framework, which aims to promote sustainable forestry and combat illegal logging, is part of this. we therefore need to develop and strengthen this cooperation and make it easier for more countries, companies and forestry farmers to operate and trade forest products in a sustainable way. it benefits us, it benefits all of us, and it benefits future generations. strong european cooperation against deforestation is needed and this report makes a difference.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we used to think that sex should not be an obstacle, nor a factor, in recruitment. not anymore. this report on gender in foreign policy obsesses over individuals’ sex. it calls for binding quotas for management positions, it references gender mainstreaming, also known as radical feminism, 24 times, and intersectional analysis, a.k.a. balkanisation, seven times. it calls for increased funding and staff to implement gender ideology, with a full-time gender adviser in each eeas directorate. i suppose the title ‘political gender commissar’ was already taken. the irony is, of course, that you can’t have your woke, gender mainstreaming cake and eat it too. what’s the point of quotas anyway if gender is a fluid concept? if you, like i do, believe that merit, not identity politics, should be at the heart of recruitment policy, then vote against this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, commissioner urpilainen, for a very progressive introduction to the subject. 2020 was supposed to be a super year for gender equality. it is 25 years since the beijing declaration and 20 years since the un security council adopted the resolution on women and security. but instead of a strong year for gender equality, we have a pandemic that shifts the focus, while the human rights of women and girls are severely affected. this is particularly true of access to sexual and reproductive health and rights. it's time we rescheduled. the eu needs to ensure a gender perspective in all areas. i want to see an end to discrimination against women and girls all over the world. my country, sweden, and my government have had a feminist foreign policy since 2014, and now, now it's the turn of the eu.
mr president, deciding who enters, settles or becomes a citizen is a fundamental right of a sovereign state, but the cypriot and maltese golden passport schemes do not require a person to first live in the country before granting citizenship and the right to enter and settle in other european countries. the former maltese prime minister’s chief of staff was arrested last month as part of an investigation into a kickback for a favourable passport decision scheme. to this debate, i’d like to add that the sale of visas is just as serious. over two years have passed since 27 members of this parliament demanded an investigation into reports of mafia-style sales of visas – papers that enable free movement in schengen countries. these should be common concerns. the sale of passports and visas is criminal; it impacts us all and it must end.
mr president, as in a relationship, or any other kind of union, the basis of a functioning one is called trust. welcoming criminals into our european union with open arms, just because those criminals are rich, is totally outrageous and means forfeiting that trust because, regardless of what the cypriot, maltese, bulgarian or any other government thinks, access to one eu country’s passport also means access to the whole eu, with all the benefits that it takes years for normal people to enjoy, even though they might have been exemplary inhabitants. this is not having sincere cooperation, nor is it upholding the integrity of what eu citizenship should mean. convicted oligarchs and corrupt businessmen have nothing to do here in the eu. i am glad that the commission has at last started to be active on this matter, even though it has taken a long time – too long a time – but i also have a question as to why has it taken such a long time. my second question is also why doesn’t it include all the countries who have this kind of system in place, referring to the infringement process, of course. there are many reasons why one should be able to get an eu citizenship, but being rich and / or an oligarch aren’t two of them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is good that parliament and the other swedish parties, like us, want to raise the standards of the rule of law in order to receive eu funds. the strange thing is that they do not demand at the same time economic reforms, budgetary discipline and measures against corruption; that you are so reckless and unquestioning in wanting to give money to states that mismanaged their economies in good times; that you are now prepared to introduce new taxes and burden future generations with debt; that you want to spend thousands of billions on ill-conceived climate measures, which the commission itself admits will not be sufficient or will have any decisive impact on the global climate. you talk warmly about trade, the single market, environmental cooperation and security. at the same time, you are spending money on other things and are moving even more power to brussels, farther and farther away from the individual citizens. the eu is talking about a copernican revolution, and it is, but not a revolution that liberates anyone, not one that builds something for the future or solves any problems.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the investment plan for a sustainable europe must first support the countries and regions with the most difficult starting points and the most challenging transformation. it should therefore take into account their level of wealth as measured by gdp per capita and the energy poverty rate. this is the situation in my country, poland, whose investment needs associated with the current reduction target alone until 2030 are estimated at eur 240 billion and are twice the eu average. in this context, the reduction of the just transition fund, which was supposed to support green investment, from the €40 billion envisaged by the commission to just €17.5 billion budgeted is of the utmost concern. if we want to achieve the goals of the green deal, we must on the one hand respect the transition path chosen by individual countries, and on the other hand allow all available technologies to produce energy from sources such as atomic, solar, wind, hydrogen or natural gas, which is the fuel of the transition from coal to energy. only this approach will give the green deal a chance to stand the test of time and not lead member states down a path of economic and social development at different speeds.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the european economy needs to be reshaped. with the right policies, we can enable and finance the green transition. but we do not have, in either the public or the private sector, infinite resources. how we use the money most effectively therefore becomes a crucial question. it is also important that we bring the whole union, both citizens and businesses, with us. the public sector has an important role to play in this, both in terms of general rules of the game and also in terms of funding. we have a responsibility to use our taxpayers' money wisely and efficiently. we know, however, that the public sector will not be able to do this on its own. many seem to believe that private sector constraints are what will survive the green transition. nothing could be further from the truth. the private sector can and will contribute to a greener economy, and they are already doing so in several sectors. if we have the right green investment plan, we can create an economy that reduces emissions but also creates jobs and competitiveness. helping and supporting rather than suspecting and hindering must be the european way. it's only then that we can chart a global path that others are also prepared to follow and be inspired by.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have read the report on the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the financing of the green gift. the investment framework shows that the cost of climate action is at least sek 6 700 billion per year until 2030. despite a record budget increase, about $4 billion is missing each year. i have also asked the european commission what impact these targets and measures will have on global average temperature. it is noted that this will not be decisive, but will require further measures and even more money. we are in the midst of a financial crisis whose climax and end we have yet to see. the union will also, for the first time in history, lend to future generations to save economically distressed countries during the pandemic. i wonder: who's gonna pay for this? are these states on the verge of bankruptcy? are they the countries that are already financing the rest of the union or are they future generations? this is not a serious plan to achieve any goals. this is a textbook example of how to undermine confidence in politicians and the eu as a legitimate union.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu is the world's largest economy. we have 500 million consumers making billions of purchasing decisions every day. from what to eat for dinner to what to buy for a car and which tv fits best in the living room. if we are to make these goods and services consumed across the eu more sustainable, then yes, it will have a major impact on climate emissions and how we use resources. to succeed in this, it must be as easy as possible for companies to change their business models so that they can start offering more climate-smart, circular products and services in the internal market. if we are to achieve truly sustainable trade, we must break down barriers to trade. it must be easier and cheaper to obtain recycled materials. today it's expensive. it's hard to say. every country has different rules. and recycled materials are seen as junk, instead of being seen and regulated as materials that can be reused. we need to break down trade barriers for sustainable services so that we can allow more repair and rental. today we have an incredible number of barriers to trade within the eu, particularly in the services sector. it's what's stopping the climate change. we must remove the eu's own tariffs on climate-friendly products. we need to invest in new technologies and ai so that we can boost new and green innovation. we need to remove the jungle of labels that consumers see every day, so that it is easier for them to get clear information about what is more sustainable in a product and how products can be more climate friendly. unfortunately, the socialists, the green party and the left have the wrong focus. instead of taking advantage of trade and technological developments, they want to introduce bans, restrictions and new taxes - which then prevent companies from making these important climate investments - where the goal is to stop consumption rather than create sustainable consumption. i don't think we should turn back the clock 100 years to a policy that leads to a green planned economy. we've tried it in europe before and it didn't work. i don't want higher unemployment or fewer climate adjustments. i will continue to oppose these harmful proposals and i will continue to push for a modern, green climate and environmental policy that actually makes a difference in real terms and not just on paper.
in writing. translating the focus on the green deal, combating climate change and the people-centred digital transition into the european industrial strategy is a priority that the pandemic crisis has made even more urgent. the european union as a multilateral power must promote globalisation with rules and, to this end, it must guarantee a level of strategic autonomy which is not possible without a strong commitment to the transformation and recovery of its industrial fabric. the report under discussion sets out clear principles to ensure long-term growth, mobilise and attract the necessary investment, secure the energy and digital transition, improving the quality of life, create more and better jobs, promote innovation and strengthen entrepreneurship and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). i would also like to stress the social, cohesion and convergence dimension which informs the proposals contained in the report. without promoting convergence in development between territories and tackling inequalities assertively, the european union will be weakened in projecting its industrial vision as a reference for the new cycle of sustainable industrialisation on a global scale.
the next item is the report (a9-0204/2020) by mrs hilde vautmans, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the external consequences of the covid-19 pandemic (cfsp) [2020/2111 (ini) ].
rapporteur. – madam president, the covid-19 crisis has shaken up the world profoundly, and we haven’t found the politics yet to cope with it. that’s the harsh but undeniable conclusion of my report. instead of working more closely together to find a solution, the world’s superpowers have abused the pandemic to compete and to try to shape the world order to their own advantage. so we urge europe to strengthen its foreign policy presence in order to be able to defend its interests in the new geopolitical era – because it is a new political era. the covid-19 pandemic has been a game changer. it has changed the relationship between the world’s biggest players. look at the united states. under the failed leadership of trump, the united states opted to stand alone. there was no cooperation. even worse, they sometimes denied the severity of the pandemic by spreading misleading information and undermined global institutions to deal with it. china actually did the same. the lack of transparency on the outbreak of the virus and attempts to withhold information about its magnitude made at the start of the battle against the virus was ineffective. since then, the ‘virus diplomacy’ as i call it is seeking to fill the global political vacuum, and in the light of such disturbing trends, our response has been slow and disjointed. we need to reduce our dependency on third countries in strategic sectors. we need better communication strategies and strong resilience in order to counter this information. that is what we need to do to play a bigger role in the world. my report is very clear. we need to get our own house in order first. we need to reclaim our place on the world stage to make sure our children will continue to live in a world of cooperation, democracy and the rule of law. we can no longer count on others for solutions. we need to be able to count on europe by making it more decisive, more dynamic, and more resilient internationally. let us work together to finally get rid of the unanimity rule in foreign affairs, to be able to push back against the strongmen surrounding us, to build a real european defence union as the european pillar within nato, to re-engage with the united states, to develop a new strategy towards china, and to urge them to fully cooperate with an independent international investigation into the origin of the virus. colleagues, commissioner, let us roll up our sleeves and launch the conference on the future of europe. let us show that we are serious about the geopolitical commission. thank you very much.
member of the commission. – madam president, i should like to thank ms vautmans for her words this evening and for her work on this report. in this report, ms vautmans, you say covid-19 is a game changer, and it is, and one that we were not prepared for, but it very much is a game changer. and you speak of a new political era, so let me just outline what the commission is doing in this regard. firstly, we’re working on a joint communication on multilateralism that will reaffirm our commitment and propose a strategic approach, underlining the eu interest in promoting multilateral solutions. respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law will remain at the very heart of our response to this pandemic. the new action plan on human rights and democracy seeks to reduce inequalities by combating poverty and social exclusion and by promoting non-discriminatory access to social services, including quality and affordable health services. our global eu response to the pandemic, that brought together team europe, has now reached eur 38.5 billion. we have sent a strong message of eu unity in times of crisis, as well as international solidarity and global leadership. the western balkans and eastern neighbourhood have remained our close partners throughout the pandemic. in your report, you call for united eu efforts to invest in the region. the economic and investment plan presented in october is a clear step in that direction. we are continuing the discussion on a reinforced eu partnership with southern neighbourhood countries. we will jointly identify concrete areas of cooperation with a focus on supporting resilience through reforms that directly impact the quality of life of citizens. covid-19 is likely to impact conflict areas such as the sahel or the horn of africa and least-developed countries disproportionately, we know this, increasing their vulnerability and the vulnerability of their citizens. we are stepping up the political dialogue with african partners ahead of the next eu-africa summit. in the wake of the us presidential election on 3 november, the eu wants to enhance cooperation with the new us administration, not only to tackle covid-19, but also to maintain and reform the rules-based order and crucial commitments, such as the paris agreement. it is important to continue calling on china to participate in the review of lessons learned from the international health response and to address the consequences of the pandemic in developing countries, notably as regards debt relief. despite the limited resources for such great stakes, the next mff provides a real opportunity for the european union to pull its weight in leading by example, engaging with others and promoting a sustainable recovery, underpinned by our values and interests. thank you for your attention and i look forward to your vote and discussion.
the case is closed. the vote will be held on wednesday 25 november 2020. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the original aim of the parliament's own-initiative report on the foreign policy consequences of the covid-19 pandemic was to put the events of the past year related to the global pandemic into a proper interpretative framework. instead, the report is exhausted in its criticism of the measures taken by some countries, including the united states, to deal with the outbreak. the report takes a position on issues that are not related to global warming, often on an ideological basis, such as migration routes. it is unacceptable that the report calls for a shift to qualified majority voting in the field of eu foreign policy under the pretext of the epidemic. in doing so, it not only exceeds its powers but also ignores the strongly opposed views of many member states and members of the european parliament on the matter, since smaller member states cannot be deprived of the right and opportunity to represent their own interests in european foreign policy decision-making. this would further divide member states at a time of critical global pandemic, when the opposite is true: cooperation and greater coherence are needed. the report thus weakens europe's international position rather than strengthening it in the face of the covid-19 pandemic.
in writing. alongside the health, economic and social crisis that the covid-19 pandemic has caused around the world, it has triggered systemic tensions in global governance with far-reaching and long-term implications for international relations. today, covid-19 affects key aspects of the eu's foreign and security policy and defence, but it is also a turning point on the international stage, a risk multiplier and a catalyst for change in the global order. unfortunately, the lack of global leadership and a coordinated international response in the early stages of the crisis was a key prerequisite for the rapid spread of the virus, which in turn provoked isolationist decisions, the rise of authoritarian nationalism and the sponsorship of state disinformation campaigns. that is why i believe that the eu should work to revive the transatlantic partnership now so that it can become more effective in tackling the pandemic and other major international challenges, such as climate change. we need to find a new basis for cooperation with our strategic partners in the united states in favour of multilateral cooperation, international justice, the rule of law and human rights against nationalist and authoritarian ambitions.
the next item is the report (a9-0212/2020) by mr tomas tobén, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation and aid effectiveness (com (2019/2184 (ini)) (com (2020) 0264 - c4-0212 2020).
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner mcguinness and colleagues, i have made the effectiveness and efficiency of aid my personal priority from the very moment i became chair of the committee on development. this report i see as a wake-up call to put effectiveness again at the centre of development cooperation. the european union is the biggest donor in the world and we have to take the lead now in making better use of aid. we owe this not only to the aid recipients but also to europe’s taxpayers. and now, let us be clear: development aid can never be 100% effective and efficient, but we need to check that our aid provides pathways for communities and countries to become less and less dependent on aid. the long-term objective of our union’s aid policy must be that the recipient countries of today will no longer need our aid tomorrow. but the needs today are high. the current covid-19 pandemic is undoing years of progress, and we can see also at the same time that populations in developing countries are growing faster than gross national income and the job markets do. hunger is on the rise and conflicts are increasing during the last years, and therefore we need to challenge the practices of the past and try also to adjust. this report makes clear and practical recommendations to the commission and to the member states. we want team europe to become an everyday reality of our work with developing countries. for this, we want to see a drastic increase in joint programming and joint implementation so that it covers all partner countries in the developing world. we also need clear rules and guidelines on how to make aid coordination among eu countries and the commission a reality, and i will commit, therefore, to ask the commission to bring forward proposals in this regard. furthermore, we ask the commission to publish, bi-annually, a development and effectiveness progress report covering planning, programming, implementation and results by eu institutions, eu member states, as well as european local and regional authorities. i believe that local governments in the developing world tend to be more accountable and more in tune with the real problems and the real solutions. we want the european commission also to start a real reflection on this and turn it into action, including when it comes to budget support. to conclude: the eu needs to remain the champion and the leader when it comes to upholding and applying the principles of aid-effectiveness to secure a real impact and to achieve the sustainable development goals. commissioner mcguinness, we were together at the united nations’ sdg and climate summit last year. we both heard their appreciation for our commitment, but also how everybody asked europe to take the lead. i look forward now to turning the message from this report into actions, together with you and all the other relevant actors. so let me finish by saying: by being more effective we will achieve more. this report is a first step in that direction.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i must admit that i actually prepared two different speeches. while i hoped that i wouldn’t need to give this specific one, i need to do it out of necessity, after the speech of the rapporteur. when we are negotiating important reports such as this one, it is of most importance that we weigh every word, we double-check all the facts, and we don’t choose what to include based on political self-interest: rather, out of total necessity due to the reality we are faced with during the period the report concerns. otherwise, we undermine the trust in the report. i was therefore happy when the rapporteur and we shadows agreed on some overall structures: to only name countries where we can lean against the judicial process or decision – otherwise we risk to end up with a country catalogue rather than a report with a focus on fundamental rights breaches. and that we have the right balance between social and civil rights, because one should not forget that the right to housing is equally as important as the right to, for example, an independent and free judicial system. our eu citizens need them both to be fully free. furthermore, no eu citizen should be limited in living a happy life through being faced with discrimination or racism, which we unfortunately see more and more of. lgbt-free free zones, attacks on independent and free media, demonisation of migrants and people of migrant backgrounds, shrinking space and limitation of women’s rights to their own bodies are some of the attacks on fundamental rights we are seeing in our member states, in some much more than others. finally, in the political family i belong to, the outcome of discussions and negotiations is important. if we don’t agree, we highlight it in the negotiations, to give a heads-up, because we know that negotiations are all about giving and taking. to sneak in issues in the explanatory statement that one has no majority for, as rapporteur, is for me not working. this is not a game, this is real people’s lives we are talking about. with that said, i hope that we will be able to vote ‘yes’ to this report without too many amendments, which would change the important element in this report and might have consequences for the final vote.
mr president, in the field of trade, there is obviously an urgent need to change policy and to change the instruments of this policy. i think we need to protect our businesses, our know-how, our territories more, demand more reciprocity in agreements, but also be more reactive. i'll give you an example. last week, a mega trade agreement was signed between asean countries, china, and australia and new zealand. all these countries are countries with which we have agreements or are negotiating agreements. the logic would be to suspend the negotiations and look at the practical consequences for us. i am thinking in particular of the question of the rules of origin, which have been greatly simplified in the context of the comprehensive regional economic partnership. they are simplified here and there is a risk that products 'made in singapore' or 'made in vietnam' are actually 'made in china' products exported here without customs duties. so we really have to stop being naive. president lange said "people first" and we're still a long way from that. we need a radical change in trade policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are now deciding what trade policy we will pursue in the future. the world situation gives cause for concern, both for our health and for the economy. we must therefore set out a trade policy that can help us to deal with the covid crisis we have in the short term, but also with competitiveness in the long term. we must not stop trading with each other or shut ourselves off from the outside world. we must, on the contrary - and this is perhaps my main message - we must, on the contrary, stand up for free trade, because it creates wealth, it takes people out of poverty, it enables businesses to grow and it creates jobs. it is also one of the solutions to the climate challenge and can facilitate the delivery of vaccines and medicines to people. there are four areas that i want to highlight in particular, that give us an opportunity right now, a window of opportunity. the first is to improve relations with the american, the new american, administration. the mini-agreement, which i hope we will approve later this week, is an opportunity to de-escalate the conflict with the united states. we should join hands with the americans and take on china with them, because they are playing dirty games in the international market. secondly, we must reach an agreement with the united kingdom very soon to alleviate the situation and the impact on businesses after brexit. thirdly, it is gratifying to see that there is now an appetite for major free trade agreements. we are seeing this with the countries of asia and oceania now concluding a major free trade agreement. the eu should go further in this area and continue negotiations with several countries and of course ratify the mercosur agreement. finally, we see a new leadership in the world trade organization. that's also an opportunity. we europeans now have an opportunity, a window of opportunity, to stand up with renewed vigour for open, free and rules-based trade.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this resolution is the twelfth in a series of angry letters without teeth. i can remember what you said during the negotiations: 'we must write an angry letter,' said the social democrat. 'yes,' said the green, cautiously applauding. 'we must ask the council to impose strong sanctions,' said the christian democrat. "no, no, no", said the liberal. it's too tough. perhaps we should ask them to consider the possibility of imposing targeted sanctions. yes, those who prefer to scold rather than take concrete action against erdogan won. it was another angry letter. we could freeze the customs union with turkey for six months, remove the pre-accession aid, secure the border and stop paying erdogan for our border control, end the membership negotiations. but you're against it. there's a turkish proverb that says: the dogs bark but the caravan moves on. the caravan is erdogan's, and it's neo-ottoman.
madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for his statement. i’m a firm believer in dialogue and cooperation. the creation of the eu is a concrete example of how we built peace in a region torn in pieces because of wars and conflicts. looking at the middle east, we see the urgent need of more cooperation, more dialogue for the sake of the people. however, all cooperation and agreements must be assessed through the lens of building peace and bringing prosperity. at the first glance i welcome the agreement between israel and the uae and bahrain, but it is as important to look at the content, because only then we know if the ingredients for a wider peace are there. first and foremost, there is no reference to ending the occupation through a two—state solution between israel and palestine based on the internationally-agreed parameters. secondly, the deal includes, to a greater extent, the matter of weapons sales. the people of the middle east do not need more weapons; they desire more peace, democracy and prosperity. so ‘yes’ to cooperation and deals in all its glory, but let us not fool ourselves by claiming that the current abraham accord will bring peace to the region without adequately referring to one of the longest ongoing occupations we know: the occupation of palestine.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the ongoing pandemic continues to be a huge challenge and it involves huge sacrifices for all of us. it is therefore important that we in the member states continue to work together, and the eu is an important part of limiting the spread of infection. we have to do two things at once. we need to strengthen our health care preparedness in the crisis. but we also have to start the work of building a new future, a new sustainable economy for the future. we're not going to rebuild the old economy. we're going to build the new green economy. the green deal and the paris agreement should be our roadmap for building a sustainable eu economy and for us to have hope for the future. i would therefore call on the eu heads of state or government, ahead of the summit, to make a serious contribution to this important work now, so that agreement can be reached on the budget, the recovery fund and the rule of law in practice. it is the extreme right forces that are blocking this. i want to see the eu become the world's first climate-neutral continent, and that must go hand in hand with social rights and gender equality.
in writing. what is the rule of law or your country worth to you, my fellow europeans? as a hungarian patriot and social democrat, i declare that neither the homeland nor the rule of law are for sale! i hope you feel the same way. we are now faced with a historic choice: whether to give in to the political mobsters who are blackmailing the union with some affordable deal or not to enter this dirty game. it's a shame that today's hungary, the illiberal mafia state of orban, would no longer be accepted into this european club. it is a shame that the founding fathers' populist community is still cowardly assisting the illiberal rampage and it will be a historic crime if the heads of state and government again stab the european parliament, which represents the will of almost 450 million european citizens, in the back and finally make a deal with the mafia. it's a law of the land that we don't negotiate with political hostage-takers. what is angela merkel worth, the orban subsidies to the german car industry or the new heavy and unnecessary hungarian military order? is it worth it that the independence of the hungarian judiciary is being eroded; that the public service media is demonstrably lying to political control and that the rule of law is being gradually abolished? fidesz says the current veto issue is a battle between east-central europe and the west. i think it's common sense, european decency and the petty mafia bosses. decide which side you're on and find a way out of the veto crisis accordingly.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the istanbul convention and violence against women (2020/2875 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the members that these debates are scheduled with a single round of speakers from the political groups, and that for all the debates of this part-session there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are also planned.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to start by assuring you of a good job in your new position. many things have happened since i last addressed this house on the istanbul convention and violence against women. since march, the world has changed. the number of cases of gender-based violence, violence against women and, in particular, domestic violence, has been on the rise. this is what we know because, as we know, this is one of the most under-reported crimes. the strict confinement that many of us have been experiencing led to heightened exposure of women and children to domestic violence and abuse. home is not a safe space for everyone, especially not during lockdown. anyone can experience domestic and intimate partner violence, but the majority of victims are women, and children, by witnessing violence, are being targeted directly. this trend is extremely worrying, in particular as a second wave of confinement rules has been introduced in many countries. we must do all that we can to prevent domestic violence, protect its victims and punish offenders. we have made a commitment in the eu gender equality strategy, concluding that the eu's accession to the istanbul convention is a key priority for the commission since the convention is the benchmark for international legislation on tackling gender-based violence. as requested by the parliament, the european court of justice is currently assessing the compatibility with the eu treaties of the council's signing decision and adoption procedure. the court's opinion will be delivered in the second quarter of 2021. should the eu's accession subsequently remain blocked, the commission will propose, in 2021, a legal initiative to prevent and combat violence against women in order to reach the same objectives as the istanbul convention. but we also need to act quickly to ensure a high level of protection and adequate specialised support services across europe. women should not be afraid to report cases of violence, nor should there be a fear of revictimisation. we must also counter the rising trend and prevent violence from happening. last week, on the initiative of the german presidency, the 27 eu ministers for gender equality reiterated their strong commitment and support in strengthening and improving actions on combating gender-based violence and violence against women. i am encouraged by these developments as the commission shares the ministers' determination to prevent and combat gender-based violence. we will also need your strong support for our legal proposal on violence against women. as co-legislator, you will have a key role in making this happen. additionally, as announced in our different equality strategies, we will present an initiative to extend the list of euro crimes to hate speech and hate crime. i am also here to call for your support to defend our common values. gender equality is a core value of the european union and a principle we will keep fighting for. i will continue to stress that the istanbul convention is the gold standard in terms of policy in this area and i will continue to facilitate a better understanding of its aim and provisions. the european parliament has consistently taken a strong stance on the issue of violence against women, and has repeatedly called for eu accession to the istanbul convention and for its ratification by individual member states. i count on your continuous support for the work ahead of us.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, every third woman or girl in the eu has experienced physical or sexual violence in her life. every day, women in europe are murdered because of the violence they suffer from their partner. covid—19 has put many people in a very difficult situation. it has also become a dangerous outcome for those women who are being trapped in their violent relationships during lockdown. across europe, violence in close relationships has increased dramatically during this crisis, and we must increase our forces to put an end to this now. the istanbul convention is the first binding international instrument on preventing and combating violence against women. it’s a strong and necessary tool for protecting women from all types of violence, but unfortunately the convention and the fight against violence against women is under attack by a great deal of unfair disinformation. some say, ‘oh, the convention supports destructive gender ideology’; others say, ‘oh, the convention will introduce a third sex’; some more say, ‘oh, but we don’t need this convention, we already have legislation’. but this is untrue, this is false, and these are myths, because even in my own country, sweden – which is considered to be at the forefront when it comes to gender equality – violence against women is a serious problem and the istanbul convention is a very important tool for national and local legislation and the judiciary. so it has a big impact in combating these kinds of crimes. the istanbul convention is about guaranteeing fundamental human rights also for women, and the perpetrators that are beating, abusing or killing their partners must be put behind bars. how can one even be against that? i don’t understand. this is why ratifying this convention is so important. the victims of violence have no time for more excuses. as legislators we must do all we can to protect victims and to end the increasing violence now. we have the responsibility to fight for women’s rights, for their freedom, for their safety, the basic right not to be beaten, not to be raped, not to be murdered. an important step towards this is that every eu member state and the eu itself should ratify the istanbul convention and that violence against women should be an eu crime. as rapporteur, i will not stop until this fight is achieved, and we must do more than we have done up to now.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner dalli, this is the police. fifty years ago, sweden's abortion laws were restrictive. then young swedish women went to poland to have an abortion. since then, much has happened in the area of sexual and reproductive health and rights, both in sweden and throughout europe, and thus also in the area of access to safe and legal abortion. but we see that this is not enough, because every day women's human rights are violated, and poland's restrictions on abortion rights are serious. it's an attack on women's human rights. we in the eu must act and react every time. every woman and girl has the right to control her own body, and i want to tell you all that it feels especially important on a day like this - on orange day - to undermine the value of women's rights and women's right to their own bodies.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu's lgbtq strategy is a clear signal against the right-wing populist winds blowing in europe, against hungary's constant attempts to restrict the rights of trans people, against the polish lgbtq-free zones that make life a living hell for thousands of people. it is a marker against an extreme and repugnant intolerance and a distorted view of man. but beautiful words on paper make no difference. the civil society organizations that i'm in constant contact with, they want to see change now. we must ensure that the eu lives up to the fundamental values we have about equality, respect for human rights and non-discrimination. and it should include everyone, not just in theory but in practice.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank commissioner stella kyriakides for her excellent introduction. the s&d group welcomes the fact that the commission has now presented the eu pharmaceutical strategy. it is an important step towards a european health union, where we lay the foundations for the eu to better manage the risks we face right now in the pandemic, but also in the future. medicines offer great opportunities to both cure and alleviate disease, but we also face a host of challenges. we need to make sure that we have equal access to medicines for the entire population. we also need to have an environmentally sustainable use of medicines. the use must be effective and safe, and the cost-benefit ratio must be reasonable. in the s&d group we have long called for increased action to ensure the availability of safe, effective and affordable medicines. we knew and we see that there were shortcomings even before the covid-19 crisis, and we now see that it is very gratifying that the commission is proposing concrete measures. it's a great opportunity to strengthen patient safety. the patient perspective must be in focus, while it is important that we look at the industrial and competition issues. the covid-19 pandemic has exposed the shortcomings. we must ensure that europe will never again experience a shortage of medicines and medical equipment. we're going to have new pandemic threats in the future as well. so i expect this to lead to concrete action and this, my fellow europeans, this is the citizens of europe. they have a right to expect this from the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are too many medicines, vaccines and treatments which have an undoubted medical and social interest but which do not exist because of the lack of commercial interest of industry. orphan drugs for rare diseases are the most obvious case, but not the only one. vaccines for viruses like sars and mers are another example. the union's pharmaceutical strategy, closely linked to its health research strategy, must ensure that the financial resources needed to develop those medicines that market logic cannot provide are mobilised. the new european brand will be an important step in this direction. however, the involvement of the public administration in the development of new medicines opens up another debate: what should their price be? for example, the case of the covid-19 vaccine and the advance purchase agreement signed by the commission with five, soon seven, pharmaceutical companies. we're paying for the cost of developing the vaccine with public funds in exchange for speeding up the process. we're just investing to buy time. shouldn't we have asked for the sharing of intellectual property as well? this would allow us to pay for the vaccine, when it comes, at a much lower price than we'll probably end up paying. a european pharmaceutical strategy requires fair prices that enable public health systems to reduce their current pharmaceutical expenditure.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is at its best when we work together on problems that are transnational, where eu member states alone are not able to tackle or solve the problems. the current pandemic has shown this with all the desirable clarity. the new eu pharmaceutical strategy is therefore an important initiative to strengthen european cooperation in public health. we have to deal with the biggest problems here and now, but we also have to look ahead and see what threats lie ahead of us. it is therefore particularly welcome that the initiative clearly prioritises another of the greatest threats of our time: namely antibiotic resistance. it is already taking the lives of over 30 000 europeans a year. if we don't act now, the consequences will be even worse in the future. it is clear that antibiotic resistance cannot be tackled by individual or sporadic measures, but requires a holistic approach, a holistic perspective, where we regularly review and reduce the use. there are many good examples around europe of how we can solve this. so we have to see that new antibiotics are developed. we need to review the incentives for research and the public sector should also take greater responsibility. in the fight against antibiotic resistance, the eu should and can take on greater responsibility.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to the voices of many algerians in the great peace movement hirak. prison for journalists, bloggers, poets and peace activists is unacceptable. the regime must listen to its country. i want to say to all algerians, to all algerians, to those who dream of a freer country with an independent judiciary and a rule of law: you are right. now i'll continue in english. the european parliament is extremely concerned by algeria's backlash in terms of press freedom and political freedom. we strongly condemn the escalation of unlawful arrests and harassment of journalists, human rights defenders and peaceful activists in algeria. the hirak movement is simply calling for a free and democratic algeria. the eu needs to listen and support them, and the algerian regime needs to grant the freedom and democracy that the algerian people are entitled to. today, the european parliament called for the immediate release of journalist khaled drareni, as well as all other prisoners of conscience.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. 'to be liberal is to be the fringe', a swedish liberal party leader has said. yes, to claim that one is always fighting for human rights everywhere, but to constantly and constantly counter the attention paid to the persecution of christians, must be quite demanding. karin karlsbro, the day before yesterday you were involved in negotiating this resolution on algeria. you opposed us in the ecr when we tried to draw attention to the human rights of christians. my question to you is: are you unaware of the global persecution of christians, are you unaware that christians are being severely discriminated against in algeria, or are their human rights not that important to you? the greens tried to soften the text at the negotiations to protect the algerian regime from criticism. we've seen it before. it should not surprise you, but it is a shameless hypocrisy that is actually astounding. christians are the most persecuted group in the world. if we don't show solidarity with them, who will?
madam president, it is with sadness that we see how the praised reformist agenda of ethiopia is taking a serious hit. reports of tens of thousands of people fleeing from tigray, hundreds of people being killed through machete massacres, along with federal planes bombing, are deeply disturbing, and so are the ethnically targeted measures, hate speech and allegations of atrocities. it risks also having a destabilising effect on the broader region. this less than a year since prime minister abiy ahmed got the nobel peace prize. the nobel peace price doesn’t mean that one can start acting in contrary after receiving it. both sides need to immediately end the violence and contribute to a peaceful solution, and international observers must be able to access the tigray region. it is a war crime to target civilians. the only solution forward is dialogue including all the relevant actors. it is imperative that the country returns to the path towards a democratic and prosperous future, with human rights being upheld, including the rule of law. that is the key.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, commissioner vălean. to achieve climate neutrality in the eu by 2050, the transport sector must reduce its emissions by 90% this while freight transport is expected to increase by 80% and passenger transport by 50% by the same year. an important part of the strategy for green and sustainable transport must therefore be to create the conditions for a greater share of both freight and passenger transport to be carried by rail instead of by road and by air as is the case today. if we're gonna make this work, we need to prioritize a few things: firstly, we must ensure that we have the right investment to ensure that the transeuropean transport network is completed on time. secondly, we must make it easier to travel by train in europe with good rights for passengers, a better and simpler ticketing system and a network of night trains. thirdly and lastly, we must also create a functioning labour market for the 600 000 europeans who work in this sector, that is, the workers who will ultimately enable us to increase both freight and passenger transport by rail.
mr president, free trade is only truly free when it’s fair and predictable. the european union and the us are allies and have a common interest in promoting rules—based international trade. the recent actions by the united states are therefore worrisome. with this in mind, it’s urgent that the commission presents suggestions on how to improve the existing tools we have at our disposal so that the eu becomes better equipped to deal with the extraterritorial effects of unilateral sanctions, regardless of the origin of the sanctions. at the same time, such tools must never be used for protectionism, but rather strengthened rules—based international trade. the european union must seize the moment when the new administration has come into office in washington and reboot its relations with the united states. when we work together, we can reach sustainable growth and political stability.
madam president, azeri soldiers beheaded two armenian civilians while they were alive: genadi petrosyan and yuri asryan. they tortured armenian civilians and prisoners of war; desecrated corpses, churches and tombstones. while turkish and azeri troops marched victoriously through baku, turkey’s aspiring sultan, president erdogan, revered the souls that committed the armenian genocide – the islamic army of the caucasus. armenia’s capital and several provinces were declared azeri historical land by azerbaijan’s dictator, president aliyev. azerbaijan, ladies and gentlemen, is an eu eastern partnership country, which means we shower them with eu funds. that needs to stop. instead we need sanctions against azerbaijan and turkey for their neo-ottoman war of aggression.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we're in the middle of a pandemic, and people are suffering. it is therefore very gratifying that we now have an agreement on the whole package, both on the budgetary framework and - of course most importantly - on the principles of the rule of law. it is a new and historic decision. the message is clear: when member states choose not to respect the eu's fundamental values, there must be consequences. it is time for hungary and poland to follow the principles of the european union. otherwise, there's no money. the new package will contribute to a more equal and equitable eu, where green transition, jobs and social rights are achieved. the 2030 climate target is good, but it's not enough. my wish is that we achieve higher ambitions and goals for future generations, for our children and grandchildren.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. we're in the middle of a pandemic, and it's affecting all of us. the situation is very serious not only in the eu but also in the rest of the world. so it's very gratifying that we now actually have just as described a light at the end of the tunnel, and that we now have good news about an effective vaccine against covid-19. without a doubt, eu cooperation has been crucial in providing all eu citizens with access to a vaccine so quickly. the eu joint procurement is a good example of cooperation within the eu. we are now rapidly entering a phase where allocation and distribution become important for the work of the member states' national vaccination plans. it is a national competence to carry out the vaccinations. however, it is clear that the commission's proposal for a new eu vaccine strategy for covid-19 is of great value in ensuring that vaccinations are both equitable and fair. we have clearly experienced that the virus knows no borders. that is why it is so important that the vaccine is not hindered by any borders either. the vaccine is for everyone.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. madam president, commissioner and president! one of my grandchildren is a six-year-old girl. if we continue at this rate, the eu will not achieve gender equality until it is 66 years old. perhaps my granddaughter will receive a pension equal to that of men, but before that, she will have fewer opportunities in the labour market, will be paid less than her male colleagues and will be at greater risk of violence. we cannot accept this! it can't take 60 years! gender equality and equity must be addressed at the highest political level. the council of ministers is required for the ministers responsible for these matters, just as it is for the commission and parliament. i want my grandchild to grow up in a europe and an eu that ensures that all children in her school have equal opportunities in their lives.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. equality between men and women is one of the eu's core values, as laid down in the treaties. that's what we're here for. that's what we're here to defend. at the same time, we know that there is an organized struggle against human rights in the eu. threats, harassment and discrimination against lgbtq people are increasing across europe. people on the run are portrayed as enemies of society. racism and discrimination are spreading like wildfire. every day - yes, every day - seven women in the eu lose their lives because of male violence in their homes. black on white, area by area, it's going the wrong way. structural problems require structural solutions. just as there is a ministerial council for environmental issues, for example, there needs to be a council for gender equality and equality. only if we have structured cooperation for gender equality and equity at the highest eu level can we bring about concrete changes. let me repeat my opening words: equality and gender equality are among the eu's core values. it is time for the eu to move from pretty words to action.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. the climate crisis is here and now. unfortunately, we have already waited too long for the radical change needed to combat climate change and reduce our emissions. unfortunately, the crisis will therefore get worse, and unfortunately the proposals now being discussed in the climate law, for example, are not enough to reduce emissions sufficiently, sufficiently quickly. the world meteorological organization, in its latest report, indicated that there is a 20 percent chance that we will reach 1.5 degrees by 2024, that is, within four years. people are already dying, people are already fleeing, and people are already losing their livelihoods, not just elsewhere, far away, but actually here in the eu as well. i am thinking in particular of the indigenous people of sweden, the sami, and their reindeer herds. i think of spanish winegrowers and italian farmers. i also think of the biological mass extinction, which means that a million species are globally threatened with extinction. we simply need a much, much more resilient europe. the key is a europe where sustainable development and biodiversity are always priorities, and where quality of life, public health, access to food and clean water are guaranteed for all citizens. we need holistic solutions that both mitigate climate change and adapt to the challenges we face. sure, it's going to cost money. at the same time, we know that if we don't do enough, it's going to be much, much more expensive. solidarity is more important than ever. we also need to adapt our social systems to the climate. the most vulnerable in society will be hit hardest. we need a gender perspective. we need a europe of solidarity. we know what's coming. to fail to prepare and adapt to protect our communities and prevent the worst disasters would not only be irresponsible, it would be downright criminal.
author. – madam president, the swedish citizen ahmadreza djalali faces imminent execution in the islamic republic of iran for refusing to spy on european institutions on behalf of the mullahs. on behalf of conservatives, i demanded sanctions against iranian authorities. i thank the lead negotiator, mep lega, for his leadership. swedes should note that a new conservative government in sweden would bring hope for a less appeasing foreign policy. that shift is desperately needed. as my other swedish colleague, mep guteland, exerted her and the social democrats’ influence to water down the text, mep guteland, i want you one day, as me, to clearly say that ‘i support the aspirations of the iranian people who want to live in a free, stable, inclusive and democratic country.’ please say it out loud. the iranian people need it.
madam president, dear friends, human rights is the radical notion that all people are born equal and that we will never compromise on neither civil rights nor social rights. it is radical because we still see oppression in way too many countries. yes, it is a paradox because, on the one hand, humanity is able to fly to the moon and back, but, at the same time, some people do not know how to respect all peoples, freedom and dignity. one of the current worst oppressing regime is the iranian one, but we will never be silent. ahmadreza djalali and nasrin sotoudeh, and other human rights defenders’ struggle for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, will continue being at the centre of everything we do. to the iranian regime, my message is very clear: we will continue to be vocal. we will continue to demand the release of all prisoners of conscience, the abolishment of the death penalty, and the time for an end to impunity will also come in your case. if history has taught us something, it is that dictators and oppressive regimes always fall – but the people always prevail.
madam president, i would like to thank you. citizen ahmadreza djalali is a medical doctor and researcher in emergency medicine. he has been imprisoned in iran since 2016. in 2017, he was sentenced to death. on november 24 of this year, he called his wife, here in sweden. he let her know that this was probably their very last conversation. ahmadreza djalali is one of the many victims of the brutal increase in political repression in iran. with this resolution we wish to express our disgust at the iranian regime's abuses against individuals, against women, against men. now the persecution of journalists and scientists and those who are merely exercising their freedom of expression must end. the innocent prisoners must be released. the death penalty must be abolished. now ahmadreza djalali must be allowed to return home to sweden, to his family, to his wife, to his children, where he belongs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament is certain of one thing: there can be no agreement without the consent of the european parliament, the chamber of the citizens of europe. and there will be no european parliament approval without a thorough examination of the content and the legal basis. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the cohesion of the european union. it is always the same thing: we, the european parliament, the commission and the council, defend the european union's common law and values. we defend the rights of citizens. we're just trying to be fair to each other. and we support the extension of the peace process in ireland. that is the basis of cohesion, and that is the basis of negotiation. on the other side of the channel, unfortunately, it has become the rule that we never know what tactics are being used, what vanity, what rosy, and i often get the impression that arrogance and double-dealing with one's own citizens determine one's strategy. we are predictable, and we are open to negotiation. and we are prepared for any situation, which is why we are also adopting today four contingency plans to be prepared for a hard brexit without a deal: in the areas of freight and passenger transport, aviation, aviation security and fisheries. but we must also bear in mind something else: we must draw the lessons of brexit in the debate on the future of europe. we must learn from brexit in our dealings with each other. we have many brexit suspects among us - in hungary, in poland, in other member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. leaving won't solve the problem. no promise of the brexiters can be fulfilled except the exit. this is a defeat.
president, mr vice-president, dear maroš, let me begin by thanking you and your team, and of course michel barnier, our top negotiator, for the style and commitment you have shown. we are not there yet, of course, but congratulations, no, no congratulations, but thanks is in order. ladies and gentlemen, we in parliament have set a new deadline because we want to make it clear when we are ready and able to evaluate this agreement - and let us hope that there is an agreement, i keep pushing for it. because this parliament can be very flexible and we can go very far in that, but it must be clear that we do want to evaluate on the basis of texts, and that we want to evaluate in depth. and we are prepared to work day and night if there is an agreement on sunday, but the texts must also be available. secondly - and i think this is important - we have been very much one between parliament, the council and the commission up to now, and we must remain so until the last possible moment. why would you do that? because the stakes are enormous. it is more than a deal with the united kingdom. it is about the essence of the european union. that is why this agreement is so difficult, of course, because it is about the essence of what we stand for. yes, it is about our social model and the preservation of that social model and the possibility of further strengthening it, of course. yes, it is about our protection of the environment and the climate and the possibility of preserving and further strengthening it. that is the purpose of this agreement and no one, ladies and gentlemen, no one should threaten it, not even our good and dear friends in the united kingdom.
madam president, otto von habsburg was a member of the european parliament for 20 years after 1979. he believed profoundly in the essential unity of the european peoples. he insisted that an empty chair be kept in the chamber of the european parliament to symbolise his belief in the inevitable accession of central and eastern european countries. madam president, 16 million uk voters voted to remain in the european union. they were northern irish, they were scots, they were londoners, but above all they were young people, and i believe we should keep an empty chair in our chamber to symbolise our hope in their eventual return and the welcome they will receive. i’m not sure if i’ll be here to see that day, but i very much hope that i live to see the day when uk meps come back through the doors of our chamber. and if that chair symbolises nothing else, it should symbolise the towering achievement of the european union in helping to broker peace on the island of ireland and bringing about a golden age of anglo-irish relations, whether through accession in 1973, the good friday agreement in 1998 and its implementation, and now the northern ireland protocol. i hope and believe that i can say with confidence that ireland will be the first to welcome them back.
madam president, dear colleagues, and most of all dear friends in the uk, no matter what is going to be in the deal that might or will hopefully shape eu—uk relations in the future, one thing is absolutely clear: the best deal the uk could get – and it will stay that way – was to be part of the european union, to sit here around the table in brussels and to take decisions together. no matter what is going to happen in the next days, weeks, months or years ahead, we must always remember our interdependence will always be stronger than brexit, our ties will always be stronger than brexit, and our friendship will always be stronger than brexit. it is the end of the year and we are close to the end of the transition period. so, friends in the uk, so long for auld lang syne. ce n’est qu’un au revoir, nos amis; auf wiedersehen und, hoffentlich, bis ganz bald!
madam president, since june 2016, we’ve been discussing brexit in a largely similar fashion in this house. we have constantly reiterated our respect for the british people’s decision to leave our union. we have constantly reiterated that we would like a close and mutually beneficial relationship and we have clearly laid out our negotiating positions in a transparent way. yes, this has not been a smooth process – anything but, in fact – but then that’s the norm for divorces. we have witnessed the issue of brexit dominate the political landscape in the united kingdom with intense debate and division. and here in the eu, it has never been far from the top of our agenda and has diverted our attention from other key issues. this process has been painstaking and the cause of lingering anxiety. but we’re finally beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel. i urge you not to fall at the final hurdle. we must hold our nerve, trust our excellent negotiators, led by the remarkable michel barnier, and facilitate, in any way we can, the final phase of this process. yes, even if that is provisional application, although this should only be a last resort. although we stand on the edge, looking nervously at a no-deal, we must remember that much progress has been made. we’ve a formal agreement on how the new irish sea border will operate, which will provide businesses and people on our island with clarity and stability, while upholding the integrity of our single market and the good friday agreement, which michel barnier mentioned, and also in relation to the internal market bill, which commissioner šefčovič negotiated successfully. we have an agreement on the vast majority of areas, and have even made significant progress on a level playing field, but we have some very difficult areas in relation to fishing outstanding. however, deal or no-deal, there will be significant economic effects. the brexit reserve fund (brexit adjustment reserve), therefore, must be allocated under clear and fair criteria so that businesses who are most affected by brexit are given the support they need in a timely manner. this needs to be a priority in our recovery from covid-19.
madam president, i would like to thank you. much water has flowed under the bridge since david cameron, almost eight years ago, made the fatal decision to promise a referendum on eu membership in order to win a national election. what has followed since then has undoubtedly been a multi-act tragedy, but now the drama is finally drawing to a close. the only constant that has been positive in all these long years of negotiations has been our ability, within the eu, to stick together, and our ability to remain calm. it is important that we are able to keep this goal all the way and not to abandon the principles that have guided us through the negotiations. we must have an agreement that ensures high social and environmental standards. we must maintain good transport links between the eu and the uk. however, this must be done in a way that does not jeopardise the working conditions of all those working in the transport sector in europe. i am glad that we are here today to adopt transitional arrangements which will secure basic air links and road freight between the eu and the uk. but this is no substitute for an eu-uk agreement. so in conclusion to our chief negotiator, to the commission: hold on, hold on, hold on to our principles. we'll be right behind you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. brexit is a fact that we have to deal with. there are no winners, really, just losers. however, the need for cooperation to get us out of the climate crisis and overcome the pandemic has never been greater. the impetus for rules-based trade and cooperation on equal terms remains strong. the will of all of us to travel, study, live and work between our countries continues. we are not the ones who voted britain out. it is britain that is leaving the eu, but not europe. we now need and expect an agreement on the rules of the game, on cooperation and on a common future.
madam president, a big european economy is voluntarily leaving a preferential economic and trade area and the world’s biggest and most influential standard—setting and regulatory power. last sunday, another negotiation deadline passed with no final outcome, and what we have just heard from michel barnier is that on the negotiation table at least one big, and a number of little pieces, remain without solution. we continue to be in the no deal territory and failure is still possible. we must be also aware that even if a skinny agreement is better than no-deal, it will bring a higher level of distortions than a more ambitious deal, and even the most effective preparatory measures will not protect us fully from distortions. the good news here is the agreement reached on the full and timely implementation of the withdrawal agreement and my appreciation goes to maroš šefčovič and his team, but we still have to understand better how, and to what extent, it is warranted that there are no risks there. i support the commission’s attempts to keep negotiations alive as long as there is a chance for agreement. no deal has never been our option, especially in the midst of the current crisis, but negotiating under tremendous time pressure cannot lead to an agreement at any cost. i also expect from the british government that the sovereignty argument will not become a pretext for a no deal calamity. as most of us here, i am concerned about the ongoing process. so far, we have stayed calm and carried on, but the proposed new deadline stretches beyond what normally we would be ready to accept. we will be deprived of our basic rights relating to international agreements. paradoxically, the pandemic has helped us organise a last—minute remote plenary meeting, but evidently there is no time for any responsible scrutiny of the text. so let me finish by saying that in opening ourselves at the cost of our democratic prerogatives to this unprecedented flexibility, parliament shows its willingness to pay this price, because achieving agreement on a future partnership will allow us to keep liaising over the channel in the long term, and this is a price worth paying.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank mr barnier and his whole team for the work they have done, the good work they have done. i think you've done the best job you could, but, ladies and gentlemen, we didn't have it easy. we are facing a negotiation - we have been - with a president who became british prime minister because of his toughness in the brexit negotiations. so it wasn't going to be easy, it wasn't going to make it easy for us. i hope, however, that an agreement will be reached, even if only 12 days remain. but above all i want to bring the voice of farmers and businesses that will be affected, of many people who have a great deal of uncertainty. but i also want to say, as the fisheries spokesman for my group, that the fisheries sector is particularly concerned: more than three thousand vessels, one and a half million people are directly affected by the lack of agreement. with that uncertainty, what's going to happen on january 1st? and what i want to say and ask the commission is that we do everything possible to reach an agreement, but let us not forget this sector and let us not leave it behind, because we know that for the british it is a symbol of hard brexit to regain sovereignty over the waters. the fisheries sector must feel the breath of this house, and i ask everyone to do so.
madam president, i am confident that the negotiators will reach an ambitious agreement as soon as possible, in keeping with the many historical, political, human and economic links between the united kingdom and the european union. but today i would like to focus on the fisheries question. as you will recall, both sides committed themselves, in the 2019 political declaration, to ratify a fisheries agreement before 1 june this year. it is a sad paradox that, 13 days after the end of the transition period, we not only have no fisheries agreement, but that fisheries continue to be the main stumbling block in the negotiations. mr barnier knows that he has the full support of this house to achieve an agreement guaranteeing the rights of european fishermen. we need ambition, stability and predictability: there are many jobs and investments at stake; our fishermen have been fishing in british waters for many years. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of quotas for fishery products. both the commission and the council are aware that the european parliament has always attached particular importance to the link between access to water and resources and access to markets. finally, we cannot let the european fisheries sector down: it needs a stable agreement. in any case, "agreement or no agreement", the european union must be prepared for any eventuality, as the contingency measures we are voting on today show. i would also urge the commission to please step up its efforts to get the brexit adjustment reserve in place as soon as possible. this five billion euro fund will pay particular attention to supporting the fisheries sector and coastal communities, including europe's leading fishing region, galicia.
madam president, please. no one would have thought that a week before christmas we still don't know on what terms the united kingdom will leave the eu's internal market on 1 january. the british voted to leave in 2016. that's a decision we have to respect. there is no room for revenge and unfulfilled demands. i trust that the commission will negotiate in this spirit in the run-up to the elections. the other party must also acknowledge that withdrawal entails not only rights but also obligations. and divorce is always difficult, for both parties. in view of the future good neighbourly relations, it is important that an agreement be concluded that is beneficial for both the union and the island. we must remain pragmatic and realistic, and once the agreement is in place, parliament, the council and the member states must do everything possible to ensure that it is implemented as soon as possible. deal or no deal, as of january 1st, disruption to trade and transportation is guaranteed. i ask the commission to do everything possible to inform eu companies so that they can prepare for the opportunities. i ask the member states and the united kingdom to help us make the transition as smooth as possible for citizens and businesses. the main objective is to reduce chaos. the two losers, because by leaving, i believe both the island and the union lose, would be well to find each other again as partners.
mr president, we are not ending this parliamentary year with a very fine debate, although ... if we can get a deal done by wednesday, we'll be back after christmas to sign off on that deal, too. but reaching the deal is proving to be anything but easy and it is also putting a lot of pressure on relations between us and the united kingdom. it is clear to me that we must have a level playing field between the eu and the uk after brexit. this must be guaranteed and we must maintain decent working conditions and working conditions, even after brexit. the uk must not allow brexit to lead to deregulation of the uk labour market. because fair is fair: zero-hour contracts, uncertain contracts are already the standard in the uk, and i don't think prime minister johnson intends to make this better, but rather worse... if the uk wants to maintain access to the european market, we must demand that it treat its workers with dignity, also in the interests of european and dutch workers.
mr president, i think that brexit is a very stupid decision, but we cannot control the behaviour of prime minister johnson and his government. what we do have control over is our response. we must realize, colleagues: our single market is worth 14 million euros, the uk's barely 2 million. we are 446 million consumers, they are 66 million. these are the facts and no weak narrative of national sovereignty or flag-waving can counter them. we are not giving up the level playing field for that, ladies and gentlemen. we are not going to embarrass our own european companies. we must take our own strength into account in these negotiations and ensure that there is a strong agreement in favour of our companies, our fishermen and our students. i think i speak for the whole of parliament when i say that we stand as one bloc behind michel barnier because we know that our strength lies in our unity. the union is the force. i say it in french, but i think they'll understand it in britain, too.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as i stand here today, exactly two weeks away from britain's first day outside the european union, we still have no agreement, which i regret, of course. the united kingdom is both an important neighbour and a trading partner, and we need to have as close a relationship as possible. i am worried about what a hard brexit would mean, not least for small businesses, which are the backbone of europe's economy. we know they are not sufficiently prepared for the chaotic situation that threatens. it's easy for politicians to say: prepare yourselves! but it's very difficult to do that when you don't know why. the large companies are more experienced in trading with third countries, but it is of course much more difficult for the smaller ones. now the commission must do everything it can to make it easier, not least for small businesses, for trade flows and other things between the eu and the uk to be maintained. the european parliament presented our recommendations in a resolution this summer. we stressed that the commission must take special account of small businesses, inter alia by setting up contact points for smes and also by simplifying the bureaucratic process so that the administrative burden is as low as possible. since we have heard nothing about this being a problem in the negotiations, i hope and assume that we have reached a compromise on these matters in the negotiations. if not, i'd be happy to hear about it. i would like to conclude by wishing the president, the commissioner, michel barnier and all my colleagues a very, very merry christmas. i hope we will meet again in the interim to review a negotiated agreement.
